ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Iva Dimic from 14:00 to 18:00, Mrs Irena Kotnik, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat, Mrs Marinka Levičar, Mrs Anita Koleša until 13.30, Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Mr. Andrej Čuš, Mr. Jože Tanko, Mr. Jan Mahnic, Mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda; Mrs Metko Zevnik and Mr France Donk to the 3rd item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 12th item of the agenda, the President of the Slovenian Health Insurance Office of Mr Jožet Smollet to the 18th item, the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mark Novak to the 18th, 18th and 18th points, and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda for the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday 13 January 2017 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 3. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 26th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on State border surveillance; within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Andrej Špenga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed solutions seek to eliminate the subordination of the current state border control law, as you are by putting technical barriers to the constitutional right to property; however, it is not envisaged that entities should be provided with adequate compensation or limited property rights by service. The Ministry of the Interior and the Government took part in the regulation of this area as soon as the provisional technical obstacles were put in place, i.e. in November 2015, in order to ensure adequate compensation for the establishment of temporary technical barriers or to ensure the exemption of part of the concession fee to concessionaires, i.e. fishermen and hunters. Thus, the proposal of the law now provides: entitlement to compensation to the owner or owner of the land using the land and the procedure for the enforcement of compensation if the exercise of the tasks of control of the State border requires the use of land; limitation of property rights with public benefit; and procedure where the performance of the tasks of control of the state border requires a more permanent and continuous use of land for a period of more than 24 months; a record of compensation and services for public benefit; a sanction for interference with technical and other means or for impeding their use, installation and other means; and coordination with the Ministry responsible for the environment; regular coordination for the conduct of economic public services, water management and state monitoring; an obligation for the police to, in cooperation with the Ministry responsible for the environment, prepare a plan and assess the impact of the installation of temporary technical barriers to nature and also provide for certain relief measures already necessary for the preservation of biodiversity and conservation of nature. The legal basis and procedure whereby concessionaires, i.e. hunting and fishing families, will be eligible for exemption from payment of part of the concession fee is laid down. With a view to improving the effective functioning of the police in monitoring the state border and complying with other regulations, a comprehensive and clearer regulation of technical means for controlling the state border is laid down. Technical means for photographing, video and audio recording, means for identifying persons, vehicles and objects, taking into account new technologies such as ABC doors. A system for automatic identification of license plates, which is already installed at certain border crossing points, will also be clearly defined. The powers of the administrative authority for customs matters at border crossing points at which customs controls are no longer exercised shall be changed. The standard is changed in the implementation of countervailing measures and thus the uniformity of the rules of standards with the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. Instead of "reasonable probability", the standard will now be "if circumstances make it possible to expect". In the context of the implementation of countervailing measures, the customs code may in some cases be removed prior to the arrival of authorised officials, the competent customs authority, at the place of implementation of the procedure, thereby reducing police procedures in these cases. The Schengen Borders Act also partially amended the ship's captain's obligation to report passenger and crew data, and the provisions of the State Border Control Act, which prescribe sanctions for infringements of those obligations, should also be amended. In order to harmonise the terminology used in the Maritime Code, the term of the vessel with the term of the vessel is also replaced by the term of the vessel, since the vessel represents a broader concept and all means with which it can navigate the sea, which are also less than 24 metres. The agreement of the Ministry responsible for transport shall be deleted in the event of the establishment of a temporary border crossing at the Cerklje ob Krka military airport. It is clearly provided that the detained person has all the rights of the detained person laid down in the law governing the duties and powers of the police. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government and the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation, where the law received support. At the same time, we propose that the third consideration of that law be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government is held at the 31st session of the Committee of the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. 1. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State border control submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and published on the website of the National Assembly, in the Rapporteur on 3. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Modern Centre Party, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Social Democrats of 5 were tabled in the legislative proposal. 1. 2017. The representative of the proposer, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, stressed in the supplementary explanation that the proposed solutions deal with the consequences of putting temporary technical barriers on land at the state border. It is also clearer to identify the technical means of control of the state border, and harmonisation of standards for the implementation of countervailing measures with the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, as well as compliance with maritime transport rules and other regulations, has been carried out. The proposed solutions seek to eliminate the subordination of the current regime, as the establishment of temporary technical barriers on land along the border resulted in interventions to the constitutional right to private property. The proposal for a law provides for entitlement to compensation for landowners or persons using such land on the basis of another right and governs the procedure for the application of compensation in this regard. The proceedings will be conducted by administrative units, the appeal body will be the Ministry. Where more permanent and continuous use of private land is required to carry out border control tasks and its regular use is thus prevented, and if this measure lasts more than 24 months, the proposal for a law introduces a measure limiting property rights to the public benefit of the service. A record of such service and compensation shall also be established. A sanction shall be laid down for interfering with technical barriers and other means at the border, as well as in the event of the prevention of their installation. Procedures shall be laid down for obtaining an impact assessment on the nature of the installation, use, maintenance or storage of such funds. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the PSC has made several comments to the draft law, which have been duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. It noted, however, that the proposal for a law, despite the amendments tabled, which, although improving the proposed text, was not fully in line with their comments. The representative of the Commission of the National Council of State said that the Commission supported the proposal of the law. It is particularly pleased by the high degree of consistency between the content of the bill and the proposed amendments with the opinions and views of the Information Officer, the previous evaluation of the Ombudsman and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the debate, Member Dr. Mr Trček pointed out that, for such legislation, the fear of exacerbation or resurgence of a more serious migrant and refugee crisis is quite an appropriate excuse. Since the establishment of technical and other obstacles is regulated only by this proposal of the law, it considers that the existing obstacles have been put in place illegally. It is also disturbed by the ANPR system, as it considers it another tool of the control company. In response to the issue raised, the Secretary of State explained that the proposed legal solutions had been drawn up at the Ministry prior to the start of the migration crisis. However, the establishment of technical barriers at the border in last year allowed for the legal arrangements in force at that time and now. The bill contains only a more detailed breakdown. As regards the ANPR system, it reiterates that it is a technical solution already placed at the border, only that it has not been applied more widely. When evaluating Slovenia's readiness to enter the Schengen area, this system was recognised as an example of good practice. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf, Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Hello to the Secretary of State! It should be said that the amendment of the Law on State Border Control is part of temporary measures for cases of mass and illegal migration. This is an important law following developments at European Union and Council level. Migration and effective protection of the external borders, as well as the Schengen borders of Europe, are certainly among the priority areas and interests. The police have to follow this and respond to these events. This must also be adapted to all its powers and activities. This law is also intended for this purpose. The novelty provides for technical means to enable effective border control, but also provides for compensation for landowners on which the protection fence is placed. The law in force must be stressed, for it is subdued. By placing temporary obstacles on land at the border, it intervened in the constitutional right to property. However, the owners' allowances were not adjusted. Thus, the new explicit and clear obligation of the owner and owner of the land to allow the installation, installation, use, maintenance and storage of these assets on its land shall be laid down. The proposal for a law provides for entitlement to compensation for landowners or persons using those land. The proposal also allows the establishment of a register of compensations and services in the public interest, lays down sanctions for the achievement and intervention of technical barriers and for the prevention of the installation of these and procedures for obtaining an impact assessment on the nature or installation, use, maintenance or storage of them. It must be said that any further decisions on the temporary obstacles put forward depend on the developments and risks that these obstacles pose. The situation in the future depends on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of Frontex, relations with Turkey, security, economic and social conditions in Syria and beyond. Therefore, in the Modern Centre Party, we have also stressed that landowners are entitled to these compensations. As far as payments are concerned, we want all compensations and other obligations to be paid to citizens as soon as possible. With the amendments, including at the Committee's meeting, we have made it clear that there are also extended deadlines for compensation for a wider range of land owners and users at the border. It should be further said that EUR 280 000 is foreseen for this purpose in 2017 and EUR 240 000 in 2018. What is the purpose of the novel? To ensure better and more effective functioning of the police in monitoring the state border, the proposal for a law clearly regulates the technical means of photographing, audio and video recording, means of identifying persons, vehicles and objects, taking into account new technologies. The system for automatic identification of license plates at borders has already been installed; but it has not been used so far, it must be said, and it has a different purpose than in the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. In the Modern Centre Party, together with the coalition, due to concerns about the constitutionality and legal contradiction of the use of those funds, we have adopted certain conclusions in the amendments that have been tabled. The adoption of these has achieved a high degree of consistency of the content of the proposal with the opinions and views of the Information Officer, the Legal and Legal Service and the Ombudsman. All the technical means that the police will use to control the borders are listed and clearly defined. The police will not use anything that is not listed and apply it freely, as the use of individual technical means is professionally defined in relation to the measure implemented. It is therefore a matter of using technical means at the external Schengen border and not of using them within the country. At the same time, there is a fundamental confidence in the work of the police, which must be said. Accordingly, in the Modern Centre Party we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u7	The text is addressed to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, on behalf of Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much. As far as this marriage is concerned, I must say quite clearly, I see you're looking at me as to what's going to happen. [[…]] It will be all right, we will support it, for a basic reason, because the law realizes or determines those things that somehow belong to your famous technical obstacles, which are called ordinary wire and panel fences. Now they're technical barriers because it's a new expression, rather than a new term for deceiving people. But the content of the law is real. Giving compensation to people, under certain conditions of course, who cannot use their property, their land or are hindered, is certainly a move that we will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Benedict Kopmajer, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In November 2015, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the light of the control of the refugee or migrant wave, prepared additional measures to control migration flows, including measures to secure the Schengen border. One of the measures was the installation of a wire fence, which was later replaced by a panel fence, which raised some dust between landowners and the local border population. There have been many criticisms of farmers who were prevented from processing their fields normally due to fences, as they were not even able to access their lands in some cases. But the lands were increasingly destroyed, resulting in much fewer crops. One of the farmers said: Imagine that someone in the middle of the factory would pull a barbed wire. How would workers do their job? For us farmers, land is bread, and if there is a barbed wire in the middle of the field, we are disabled. At least what farmers expected from the country is an appropriate compensation or compensation for the more difficult farming circumstances. Today, we have a law on sent-off benches that provides for entitlement to compensation for landowners or land-users and regulates the procedure for the application of compensation. However, where longer-term use of private land is necessary for the exercise of border control tasks and where this measure lasts more than 24 months, the proposal introduces a measure to restrict property rights by public service. More simply, according to the proposal, landowners who have put up technical barriers in the past period of the migration crisis will already be able to apply for compensation. The second part of the amendments to the bill is more clearly governed by technical means for photographing, audio and video recording, means for identifying persons, vehicles and objects; new technologies are also taken into account. The system for automatic recognition of license plates, which is also discussed in the bill, is already at the borders, as explained by the Ministry of the Interior, but is not yet in place. Protecting the border is one of the basic tasks of the police, which, with its active work, constantly strives to ensure that the state border in their area is well covered and supervised. With strict supervision, the police thus prevent illegal crossings across the state border and also their organisers. It must be said, however, that the border population there is also a major contributor to the detection of illegal migration. In the Desus Group, we are happy that the owners or tenants of damaged land will only receive fair compensation. Of course, we all wish that no further prejudice will be required to such actions on property rights in the future; we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u11	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u12	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! During and after the refugee wave, the government decided to put temporary technical barriers on land at the state border. The owners of these land can no longer manage their property through this intervention, as they did before the events of the mass crossing of the state border outside the border crossing areas. This is followed by a proposal for a law on State border control aimed at resolving issues relating to the limitation of property rights by public service and thus the right to compensation or compensation which has not been defined so far. The solutions proposed thus provide for the eligibility of compensation to the owner or landowner, the procedure for the enforcement of the refund, the limitation of the right of ownership to public benefit, the procedure where the performance of the tasks of State border control requires a more permanent and continuous use of land which prevents the regular use of land and lasts for more than 24 months. We support this solution by the Social Democrats, because we believe that this needs to be settled or that we should have arranged it a long time ago. The proposal for a law with solutions related to the regulation of land rights infringements and the recognition of some compensation or compensation for the loss of income due to interference with property rights, in particular for reasons of public benefit, was prepared in the first quarter of 2016; unfortunately, that proposal did not come into legal proceedings. It is worth noting, however, that other solutions relating to the regulation of technical means of control of the state border have been introduced in this proposal. This provides a set of technical means for photographing, audio- and video recording and means of identifying persons, vehicles and objects. All this data is collected, processed and stored for a certain period of time. However, with regard to these solutions related to the monitoring, collection and processing of data, some serious warnings were received in public by the Information Officer and also by the National Legislative and Legal Service. Coalition Members and Members with the amendments adopted by the Committee and also at today's meeting, we are trying to eliminate the inconsistencies found in the law to the Constitution. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have examined the law thoroughly and decided to support it for the most part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u13	The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! 26. Unfortunately, we are starting a regular session with an unconstitutional law. The Law on municipal registrars, which brings editorial powers closer to the police; the Law on Police Tasks and Powers, which introduces a paralyser, enables police officers to use military equipment and armoured personnel, introduces mass control with automatic recognition of license plates and gives these and future governments the basis for suppressing any future protest against inappropriate policies; and, of course, the Law on Foreigners, which the Government and the Coalition, with the support of most of the opposition, continue to ruse, even though it is contrary to the Constitution, international and European law and international conventions. The following is common to these proposed and missed measures: the reason for the introduction is the 'changed security situation'. The measures affect human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens and citizens, as well as of all foreigners and refugees. All proposals receive warnings of non-constitutionality; the proposed measures are not based on an expert analysis of the actual situation, but only on unfounded intimidation. The state border control law is no different. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the Committee reads: “The proposed amendment to the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law, although the text slightly improves, but not to the extent that it complies with the Constitution.” Good morning, Members and Members of Parliament! I would expect an amendment from a client of modern lawyers to remove these contradictions without delay; or the rejection of the proposal for a full law. The pre-election promises of the new policy and strengthening of the rule of law are obviously long forgotten. At this meeting, we will consider two counter-constitutional proposals for repressive legislation, prepared by the Master of Law with fellow workers and confirmed by the Government of Doctor of Law, who has doctored from the irrationality of modern law and who has participated in the writing of our Slovenian Constitution. So much for the promises of strengthening the rule of law. The government and the coalition, which are responsible for the welfare of citizens and citizens, are doing something completely different. They fear, warn against the external enemy, the entire mandate creates the impression that an emergency situation prevails in Slovenia. People need to be made clear that refugees are not the ones who threaten your future; they are not the ones who threaten your jobs, nor are they responsible for the high degree of poverty. It's mostly the government's fault. This and a few governments and coalitions before the present. The government with the free coalition is the one that rewards the richest. The government allows the exploitation of workers, non-payment of contributions and a minimum wage that does not guarantee a decent life. The government is responsible for the unconstitutional division of the rule of law and the social state, the deepening of poverty and social exclusion. A public opinion created that, because of the increasingly unsustainable social situation, turns against refugees, only benefits the ruling elite. If the public convinces the fugitives that the situation is being blamed, the government will continue to take better care of the welfare of the elite and the lobby it represents. And that's why it's used to intimidate people, so warn them about security risks. The frightened public, who thinks that her safety is at risk, is willing to renounce their rights. The Ministry of the Interior's package of proposals is nothing more than intimidation, growing repression, mass control and human rights intervention. In the United Left, we accuse this culture of fear served by the government, the coalition and, unfortunately, the majority of the remaining opposition. Because the law before us, in particular this, is against us. And please don't make a fool out of landowners and not throw it like some kind of dog bomb. Calculate, 200 grand this year, 200 grand next year. How much will the owner get? Like I said at the board meeting, bad pitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u15	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! It is the duty of the State and its institutions to protect its citizens and their property, because peace and security are placed on the highest ranking of the values of each country. And in this law it is important because we are talking about control of the state border and at the same time about control of the Schengen border. For a particular security reason, Slovenia, at least as we understand it in Nova Slovenije, has set up protection fences at the border with Croatia last year to help prevent uncontrolled entry into our country and disperse migrants throughout the territory. Importantly, the owners or users of these land have been damaged due to the lack of regular use of their land. In most cases, fences will be set up for more than two years, as we know that migratory flows are changing and that despite the currently closed Balkan routes, the situation can change overnight. Since the State has also infringed on the constitutional right to private property through the establishment of temporary barriers, its owners must receive fair compensation for the inability to manage their land. Before that, at least that is how we see it irrelevant for the competent authorities to carry out the procedures for decommissioning and forcing restrictions on property rights to the public benefit where necessary. The fact is that all 2 000 landowners who already have fences are entitled to compensation. Thus, it is 300 000 euros in compensation for these fences and it is expected that owners or users will receive them already this year. In Novi Slovenija we are also convinced that any use, the second part of this law, speaks of, of all the technical means that police can use in controlling and preventing unauthorised border crossings, is justified. If there is a likelihood of an illegal breach of a larger number of migrants, immediate action and the implementation of compensatory measures are certainly necessary, which are now more precisely specified in the draft law. What is constitutional and what is not constitutional is decided by the Constitutional Court; not by me in the National Assembly. And all these measures, all technical means are implemented at the external Schengen border, which is most exposed and must not leave illegal crossings uncontrollably, such as in the autumn and part of the winter 2015. At that time, Slovenia allowed itself to enter its territory without documents and without personal checks of around 400 000 illegal migrants, but one important point is that this is not only the problem of Slovenia, which is a problem of the European Union, which has no solution to prevent mass migration. We stress that these are urgent and temporary measures that we must take from a security point of view. Once again, let us not forget that so far the common European policy has not been able to prevent the spread of the migratory wave and take measures to help refugees and migrants not to leave their homes. It is much easier to smooch from Brussels with a finger on a member of the European Union, who is trying to protect his citizens with his actions in the first place and to accept as many migrants as he is able to accommodate them and to provide them with adequate care, which is also a human right. As long as there are no common solutions – and it is increasingly clear that there will be no common solutions by the European Union – then each country will be more or less left to itself and the most exposed members will have to take partial measures. In this light we also see this measure, which happened last year with panels and wire; and we see this law as a legal justification. The proposal of today's law, along with the proposal for a new Law on Foreigners, if it does not see any other revisions in these days or not at all, is the first step to protect our sovereignty; therefore, we will support this proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u17	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u18	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a law that is part of the package concerning the security situation in Slovenia, namely the Foreigners Act and the amendment of the Police and Powers Act. All together, there is one common denominator, namely the issue of compliance with the Constitution and the fact that all proposals have experienced a lot of criticism from the Legislative and Legal Service. Of course, the issue must be dealt with proactively, but not at the expense of human rights. It is that the reasons why we adopt these laws are not well defined, because it has already been exposed to how threatened Slovenia is and what kinds of threats we face, that the law should be adopted at this time; although we have seen that there have been full comments in the process. It is a symptomatic fact that, with the last amendments, we try to eliminate unconstitutionality and try to lead the law to meet at least the minimum conditions. It's compensation for those who have property rights. The damage has already been done, and it is high time that this damage is done away with and that people are allowed to live a normal life. What is the flaw in the final novelty of the marriage? The status of the temporary border crossing at the Cerklje ob Krka military airport is still not resolved; the comparative arrangement concerning the indication of Slovakia, Austria and other countries is not specific and we cannot believe that such solutions are implemented in other countries as well. It is a particularly problematic part of financial resources, for either people will actually receive that compensation, or it will trigger new proceedings before courts that are already overburdened. Certain questions have still not been answered. The damage is done and the damage must be corrected as soon as possible. And the main question is, we still have not received an answer as to how and how these technical barriers or panel fences were acquired and whether the process was conducted transparently. Of course, this law is the first we have adopted in this package, and it is the least controversial of all three proposed laws. In the event of damage, it shall be accepted in the event of corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20. 1. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members, Secretary of State; once again a very nice greeting! Madam President, I will allow myself a few words, even though it is procedurally known that we are touching the amendments, and I will certainly touch on this in the following. However, due to the importance of the content of the law and also by the presentation of views in the debates by individual parliamentary groups, I must admit that I simply cannot agree with some statements and communications, so I will allow myself a few general words. The purpose of this bill is perfectly clear, transparent and also written. First of all, better police action to control the state border. I do not think there should be any problem or problem in this understanding at all. The second point, as regards the objective, is to supplement the law in the work relating to the establishment of compensation for the use of land on which so-called technical assets are located and what is so important and also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, the limitation of property rights by public service. I believe that these are things that must simply be presented in more detail in a certain direction. Nevertheless, let me return to the basic point of origin or the definition of the objective, because I am in the position that the police must have clear, effective and, in practice, enforceable powers. It is true, however, that here the profession, politics and academic debates differ slightly. If I touch on the views of the information officer further in some way, I must admit that, as a Member, I am very much encouraged in this case to write them down, as it is clearly stated that it requires, in their opinion, private intervention, that particular attention is needed in the field of the use of technical means. And the red thread below, these technical means are simply recording devices. I have to admit, and I will certainly try to touch the essence or the red one in these few minutes, simply put – the Schengen; which I think is crucial. And if I go back, if we walk from this national council a few hundred meters downtown, with a little look up, we see that there's a lot of technical resources on the front of the buildings. I don't speak in department stores, especially in stores. But when we talk about State border control, we immediately refer to the protection of human rights. There's something else I'd like to point out. In his presentation of his position, the already respected Member mentioned an instructive matter with which the National Assembly would certainly have much work to do in these days, most likely with different views. This is a package of three laws – the Law on the Control of the State Border, then tomorrow on the Home Committee of the Foreigners Act and on 1 February, which has already been signed, including the Law on the Powers and Powers of the Police. Why am I exposing this? Those Members who have looked at the amendment tabled by the members of the coalition, we have written very clearly in explanation and followed the comments made by the Legal and Legal Service and the question whether the technical means are precisely and sufficiently defined as regards the use and competence of the police. And it is precisely because of this law, and also further related to both others, which I have mentioned earlier, that I am in some way obliged in this National Assembly to make very clear to the public, but what the Schengen Borders Act already provides and defines, which are the technical means that are intended to exercise border control. And here I will simply take a little walk so that there will be no further discussion or any overly vague discussion, whether or not the police can or should not use in controlling the limits of the technical means concerned. First of all, the Schengen Borders Act very clearly defines: a table with warning inscriptions that we all know, another signalling that is linked to these so-called crossings, further that which is now increasing, the technical means of photographing, video- and audio recording, including motion detectors on the green border. Furthermore, the technical means for identifying persons and objects is certainly interfering with the direction of the so-called technical means for determining the existing video surveillance system at border crossing points. And what is also possible from the record of the information officer, that there may already be a limit or a point when we are discussing human rights violations, are technical means to identify and verify the identification of persons when comparing the data covered by travel documents. In this respect, it is very clear that the Schengen Borders Act also defines the so-called ABC Gate System. I think the profession, as far as such matters are concerned, knows very well. Finally, another technical matter, which is very clearly recorded in this law, for the identification of vehicles. This is an existing automatic plate read system. I think that there will be a lot of talk about this today and even further, within a good week or 10 days, so I would not go into the content itself, but if any of the Members in the debate want, I do not doubt that a very competent explanation will be given by the Secretary of State. Personally, I think that this law is very necessary, it is in the process of being confirmed to accept it. The circumstances have caused the technical assets to be placed on our long border and it is also right that the landowners, because they are likely to be limited in some way to their peaceful possession and use, should also be compensated by the State. I would like to conclude with this as far as my debate is concerned, and I have also touched on the amendment. If I have to, I'll go on and on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u21	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. It must be clear to us that the Law on State Border Control is one of the laws in this context, where the state of Slovenia adapts to mass and illegal migration. If we understand that, then all the next steps are much easier to understand and understand. Security is also one of human rights. If we can protect and protect our country in the sense that it is also defined in this law, then we have nothing to fear. But the problem is always how Europe acts and how Europe acts about all of this. And here we are, and there's probably a lot of other big problems. Why am I saying this? As such, the European community considers itself humane and humanitarian and for all; but when it comes before a naked, harsh fact, it becomes very perverse and hypocritical. I think that our country has every legitimate right to act and act in the framework of the measures provided for in this law. We can debate respect for human rights, what is wrong, how the possibility of movement is limited, how it is recorded. There may be many debates, but when there is a topic on the safety and security of Slovenian citizens and Slovenia, I think we should also start with other arguments. Here is actually one step, one foundation, as you want our border, even the southeast, which is very open, adequately oppose all that we have witnessed in 2015. It is possible to say that this measure is too late, too fast. I will say that it is proportionate; otherwise there is more argument that this could have been done earlier, but it is also trying to recover the argument from land owners and give the police the framework in which they can move. But the second question is, what really bothers me about all these debates, and I wonder, is trust in the functioning of the police. Here again, we have a diametric, opposite understanding on all sides, but if we don't trust our police, here is a step forward. But the second question is, we have guards at all levels and we need to work on it and focus on it. When these amendments were discussed, however, they were given in order to take account of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. Once again, they are in line with the Legislative and Legal Service, the Information Officer and the Ombudsman. I think that this is also a contribution to trying to get closer to all the standards in force in Europe, I am talking about human rights, and I am also legally setting up a protector and limiting it. The law is for support and we support it in the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u23	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. As I am not allowed to discuss the views of the groups of Members, I will say something in general and something concrete about the amendment. I would start by not agreeing many times in the National Assembly with what the Modern Centre Party and its ruling politicians are saying or, above all, doing. However, Mr Ferluge's last debate was definitely an on-the-spot debate and if we were to evaluate primary school, I would just say - sit down, five. I'm sure I agree here. Today we are talking about the State Borders Act, and this package of legislation is followed by a debate on the Foreigners Act. We have heard quite a bit in recent days, read from the media about the European Community, which has somehow imposed its views on what is right and what is wrong, and has put itself in the role of a moral judge. But let's see what happened. A few days ago, one year after the first protest in Kidrič, when the local community was then, all opposed the imposition of the migrant center in the municipality of Kidrič. We all know what's been going on since Kidric's next. I could count it, but I won't. And we all know what's going on today. That is why the question is – government, where have you been for a year? If we respected the legislation in force in the Republic of Slovenia, if we respected the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as a document that everyone should respect and follow, then I am sure that no illegal migrant would go through Slovenia. That is why, on the spot, my subjective assessment that the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, is a junior depraved lawyer; and it would be difficult to say that he is a Democrat because he ignores the will of people and also ignores people, especially public opinion. On the other hand, we have a bunch of local communities and initiatives that point to the problem; but nobody wants to hear about it. I am in favour of the view that the only right and secure security policy — nothing illegal migrants — is. I therefore hope that the parliamentary majority will also support the proposal for a referendum, which I have tabled a few days ago in a procedure in the National Assembly, which will make it clear that we are the masters on our soil; and that the European Commission and anyone else will not enforce migrant quotas by their own. It is time for us to tell the third-rate Eurocrats if they have been able to impose their views on some capital so far, they must now be clearly told that their time has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u25	I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If the situation on our southern border or the Schengen border were to be the same as it is now in the Balkans, it would not be necessary to adopt the situation in the Balkans. And even if we did not look beyond the region or the Middle East, it would be for us not to consider this law or to be completely irrelevant. But this view forward, at least a few months in advance, that we are not talking about flights, and at least looking at the events in Turkey and Syria is necessary, because it is appropriate for the responsible parliament and also for the responsible government to do so. And what can we expect in the future with regard to the migration problem? We can expect that there will be nothing and that we will say that this law was adopted in vain at the time, but we can expect something different. For example, if it breaks with the European Union-Turkey agreement, and everything shows that there is nothing good about it, we can expect new, even stronger, migratory waves or waves along the Balkan route, including all the way to Slovenia. Events in Syria, Turkey. While Greece is in the European Union, it is not in favour of the tasks it has been given in the past; and I believe that it will not be in favour of the tasks it might be given in the future. There can be new migratory movements, and then this law will come into even greater application than today when we face some ten illegal state border crossings per week. And all of this raises another question, the northern states have done a lot about this prevention this year, last year. Austria has adopted certain quotas as to how many asylum seekers it can accept. Germany, in particular Bavaria, is also taking action and will no longer be the words of Willkommen refugees. It won't happen again. If anyone imagines we'll just reorganise transportation from the southern border to the northern border. This is why we also understand in New Slovenia this law in this concept of legislation in overcoming, preparing the country for a possible new problem of dealing with the problem of a new migratory wave, which can be even stronger or even bigger. Why is every country forced to seek solutions? Since the European Union, the European institutions have not now presented these solutions at the general level. And every country has to react on its own. And that is why we have today – I wish for these reasons – the Law on State Border Control and for these reasons I also see the Law on Foreigners on Parliamentary Agenda. And by content, I agree with this legislation. First of all, if I mention part of this law, it's called compensation for landowners. Well, that makes perfect sense, doesn't it? We can't just force a wire or a panel fence across its land without getting any compensation. This is a perfectly logical element of this legislation. The question of the amount of compensation, but here I agree with Mr Trčko, what he said in his position. There's still a lot of loose ends. One more question about compensation. We are now talking only about agricultural land, the owners of agricultural land. What about economic operators, economists? We were also approached by some owners of guest houses from the northern border area because they were unable to operate at that time in Šentilj. Has anyone recovered their incomes? Is this to be done in the future? These are questions that should be answered during today's debate. With regard to new assets that are not essentially new, video surveillance, reading license plates, a system that is already in place, we are now giving an additional legal basis, if you want, and security cameras, a system to identify people. Here, however, this weighting, which has already been expressed in the past or today during the meeting, prevails. Many want freedom, many want security. But there is one fundamental emphasis that many; not all. Not all of them. But I'm not just talking about migrants. That's the way it is among our citizens. It's everywhere in society. Many, most would like to have security, peace, freedom and respect human rights; not all. And this weighing then goes so far as to say how much we are willing to give our freedom for human rights and for life in a peaceful and secure country. And systems, video surveillance, recognition cameras – this certainly reduces individual freedom to a certain extent. But at the same time, it increases your safe life in this country. And I'm going to point out like the Police Act that we were monitoring at the previous session, how it was in New York in the '80s and '90s; it was those controls that made New York safer than it was before. Less crime is happening today than it was in the past. And today is such a time to think about it in the European Union and even in Slovenia, even if we are facing mass migration flows. Finally, I also agree with the amendments and would no longer be a parliamentary body here, but I would also like to stress the European Union, the European institutions, the slag and what is constitutional and what is not constitutional. What is constitutional; let us learn once in this House, we can have an opinion on what is unconstitutional and what is constitutional, but it is decided by the Constitutional Court, no one else. No one else. What is in line with human rights is decided by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and no one else. We can have an opinion, our Law-Legal Service can have its opinion, it is right to take this opinion into account; but not only when it seems to us that this is our opinion after year, but also for another time. When we are not satisfied, we do well to take these opinions into account, not to adjust it as we have ever been. And this also applies to the SMC's largest ruling party. When the opposition proposes a certain law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is very important if anything is mentioned; in another case, this opinion can be easily marched. We're even going this far, let's say I'm going to give an example of one of the Members -- whether we take the mandate or not. But about European institutions. Sluging is very simple, we can say what Slovenia must do, what Slovenia must not do, how it must do, can write a bunch of rules; but the thing is particularly more problematic if we listen to European institutions, but there are no answers to how to solve this crisis. However, it did not recommend what Slovenia should do. It seems very unfair; to some members of the European Union, this is the case, and to other members of the European Union, the smaller and completely different, the stricter and the stronger the point is being beaten. And I think that if there is no common European solution to the migration problem, then Slovenia must do its best, according to its capabilities, in accordance with human rights and freedoms, otherwise, of course, it must not do so, and in accordance with the Constitution. Once again, I stress that we should adopt legislation that will be in accordance with human rights, which will be in accordance with the acquis and the Constitution; in this light, we must adopt this legislation. But if anyone thinks that something is unconstitutional, let him put legislation before the Constitutional Court and then we will weigh who was right and who was wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u27	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm listening to this debate, and I'm kind of holding on to my head. Some people asked me today why I'm in a suit. Not because I promised something that I would do, but because, as I said in my position earlier, we have a 26th meeting of this meeting of the National Assembly and two laws that are constitutionally controversial. One speaker in front of me literally said so — let us give the National Assembly anything to accept, and then the Constitutional Court will decide whether this is constitutionally controversial or not. I thank the speaker before me for at least clarifying this dilemma, to talk about the Council of Europe and Strasbourg. Milan, I think you should learn a little something from your profession, because it's insanely insulting. Mr Krivica and his opinion should therefore not be read. A gentleman who has now sat down, a man with a doctorate, knows very well that this is not some European bureaucrat, but it is the secretary and Commissioner for Human Rights from Strasbourg who must do what they have done. This is binding and also coming out of our constitution. So let's touch some things. Let us first touch the pennies, my beloved darkness. If you go down to my Belocranians and sell them these bees, how you'll replace them now, they'll give you a cake because they're nice; then they'll drive you over the Gorjans back. Why? Temporary technical barriers are set at approximately 160 kilometres on about 20,000 parcels owned by about 2,000 owners, and no data on co-owners is included. As far as I know Slovenia's cadaster, we'll be here five grand before 2,000. This means 14 euros on the plot this year, that is to say, the owners are unknown, 140 euros; but if there are three sisters, they will come to Ljubljana for one pitch, coffee, croissant in the centre of Ljubljana, the Madonna, and it will be over, they will go hungry and walk home. And now you're selling the story of how blah, blah, blah, blah. Please stop being a fool. That's another thing. On what is postwar Europe built after two seas? Even though this is unloving, it is built on antifascism, freedom of individuals and groups, security and human rights. And here it is about and, and, and; not for or, or. Third thing, Europe so, Europe so. From what I'm listening to here today, let's make an emergency marriage. Currently, Slovenia is in such a state of emergency that the Constitution does not apply. Pika. Vote him, give him another matter. Slovenia is not in Europe. Pika. Slovenia is, I don't know, remember what will happen in marriage. [[…]] That's what you say. The Foreigners Act and this legislation is a story about us. And that's gonna turn on us. And one party with wet dreams would pass through parliament without the President deciding when an emergency is not. At the same time, you will be talking about the rule of law from the Modern Centre Party and protesting from the Slovenian Democratic Party. If it's not too much duality, then I don't really know what it is. Let's move on, amendment. Article 8 originally opened. If you have read the position of the Legislative-Legal Service, there is almost no line that is not constitutionally disputed. President of the National Assembly, right? That's right. And now you're the amendment. You are touching Article 8 and the second indent; for example, the third indent is not at all. And now you're gonna be smart up and down again. Of course, it's easy to start populism. I've already said - I'm combining Mr Grims, I'm combining Mrs Irglo, we're combining the absent Minister for Home Affairs, I'm combining Mir Cerar and I'm going to have a little talk with Vinko Gorenak; and I'm an immediate Jewish counselor, your wet dream, I'm going to get 50% in the next election. My assignment in this National Assembly is not that, and I would never have agreed to run for office in this National Assembly if it hadn't written what it says at that time. I'm lucky I'm not in any game, and I can afford what you somehow can't or can't hope for. And like a mag. He sent the blame to all of us, somehow we should. Technical solutions; what do you say? Subjugation. There's a subnormal reflection in this society. Emergency situation, security of Slovenian citizens. I come from Maribor. UKC Maribor, we know who was the CEO for a long time, we know who was on the supervisory boards. He's not here right now, but maybe some former Minister of Health could tell us how he was in the frame-up. This is an anti-constitutional situation. It is statistically measured that Seven Slovenes and Slovenes live below the poverty threshold of citizens and citizens; this is an exceptional situation. The fact that someone from the revolutionary party, as my resident colleague Kopač Dark has said, will raise the minimum wage of 10 euros is an emergency. The Desusovites are not here who have orgasmed at the previous session – what already – that they have fought for 0.15% of the pension raise. This is slightly less than 1 euro in my mother's pension, which I would prefer to throw this less than 1 euro in her head. This is an extraordinary situation that this government and this Parliament are supposed to be dealing with. We have existing legislation that allows individual treatment of asylum seekers. We had a condition when the corridor was established; and we know what the story is. And now make it a theater, make fear out of people. Of course, in my Maribor, someone said, "Look at him, we put three asylums in a new apartment, and they have a new TV; and they'll kick me out of the byte." But this one should be asking himself who's to blame for throwing me out of the byte. All governments and all coalitions in this millennium of the Republic of Slovenia are to blame for this. Pika. And that should be a thought. The responsibility of politics is that we're what? Not that we pour oil on fire, but that we are responsible and that we come from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, to which it is also sealed. And let's stop making a fool of people. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u29	Procedural first, Dr. Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u30	Mr President of the National Assembly, I suggest that you remind the debaters who use the term Jewish adviser to the President of the Government. However, if someone here refers to human rights, anti-fascism, he should be careful not to use anti-Semitic terms during the debate. I think it's also a very important element. We are not in Reichstag in the 1930s, and we must be careful when we advocate human rights. In many ways, I can agree with Mr Trček's debate; but such expressions seem inappropriate and inappropriate for our national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u31	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u32	This is just a quote from the media controlled by the Modern Centre Party and someone else. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u33	Before I give my word, I would ask myself to try to abstain from expressions that could offend anyone. I understand the explanation, but I don't think the point of the previous intervention was that word; and I wouldn't do such a thing. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the word for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u34	Very briefly. Exactly, the Constitutional Court is the one who decides what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional. However, I fully agree with Mr Trčko that we cannot accept such laws here, which we would not have been told by common sense, and that we would then send them to the Constitutional Court after the current tape. However, I am very pleased with one thing: that the United Left has made this leap when we are finally at one of the discussions to follow the opinion of the European institutions. It has always been – those ugly European institutions that dictate to us, those ugly Brussels; finally, we have now reached one legislation, where there is squandering to follow European institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u35	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u36	My procedural proposal, the President of the National Assembly and a respected doctor and colleague Milan, is to suspend this meeting, invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups and teach them where our work comes from here. Not out of some healthy farmer's mind. Recently, I have spoken several times in the last week with a Canadian citizen who has been living here for decades, she is also a Slovenian citizen, and she said to me: Mr Trček, but the Constitution is very important to you. I told her, "Dear lady, this is about importance. We have decided that we will be a constitutional parliamentary democracy, I have not remembered that. Your Miro Cerar is next to the Slovenian Sociology Society and to whom he wrote the Slovenian Constitution. Your Miro Cerar wrote a book in which he taught young Slovenians and Slovenes what parliamentary democracy is. And now we have what we have. You know, I'm too old to believe that a man changes like that. It's in man, just like microfascism in man. Milan, please, because I won't listen to any of these pumpkins here after two-thirds of my term. With a healthy farmer's cleverness, by rejecting the Constitution, we can talk at the bar; even there the waitress will say – don't funflash. But that is not the way we can talk in the National Assembly. Milan, it's also unacceptable for you to be allowed to attend a meeting of the National Assembly of Unconstitutional Laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u37	First, let me say that everything I put at the meeting of the National Assembly [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Peace, please, I can explain what I have to explain! [[advertising from the hall]] Please stop both of you. I can explain that all laws or all that we consider in this National Assembly are dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and everything can be discussed, of course, within the limits set by the Constitution and other legislation; on the other hand, what is constitutionally and legally compatible can be adopted. But it's probably a very broad assessment of what it is and what it's not. In fact, it is a matter of political consciousness and also of conscience to everyone under the Constitution, based on Article 82 of the Constitution. The only thing I'm not going to stop is because it doesn't make sense; I'm going to explain one difference, which is essential. When we say someone's coming from Strasbourg, it means they're coming from the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe is the only organisation in Europe that cares about human rights. Brussels marks the European Union. The European Union and human rights, and the equations between these two cannot be drawn. It is known which organisation in Europe cares for human rights; and it is known that the fundamentals of the European Union are four freedoms – the common market, even superior to and withdraws from Slovenian legislation. If the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are respected, it is a matter of the political will of each State whether it respects it or not. Slovenia has always respected all judgments. We're not going to go into this dilemma, Comrade Gorenak, but the fact is it did. And that depends on whether she was left, right, or whatever government she was. This is part of our tradition, which we were proud of. Now we continue the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The President, on the agenda, at least that's how I have it, is writing a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Border Control. So far, however, I have hardly seen a debater talking about this item on the agenda. Most of the debaters spoke about the Foreigners Act, which is not on the agenda today. He's not on the agenda today. The President doesn't listen to me, I hope others do, and I will go wider than all the debaters did, because, in fact, I have nothing to say about the state border control law. We'll support the marriage. We have two amendments down there, and we're done. But if everyone's talking about another marriage, and you're acting deaf, then stay deaf, because I'll be talking about the Aliens Act too. President, you have previously taught a fine lesson in respect of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. And my comment, which the audience had not heard, was that I said, Unfortunately that we have respected them, unfortunately. Why did I say that? For a fundamental reason, because we have as much as we want the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which are simply not respected by the countries. One of the oldest is that of the United Kingdom, when the United Kingdom ordered that they should give, imagine, election rights and allow the elections to be held by prisoners. So Britain said no. Turkey has as many as you want. A few days ago, you had a similar judgment between Hungary and Croatia, and Plenkovic said no. The fact that you praise Slovenia for respecting the judgments of the European Court of Justice is a relative story. I think we should say many things to Europe – no. But since most spoke essentially about the Aliens Act, which will only be on the agenda, Mr Trček also spoke about the letter written by the former Constitutional Judge, Mr Krivic, but it is important to say, also to you, the President, I do not know if you have observed this, the position of one of the first authorities in the Slovenian space and the position of one of the first human rights authorities, Boštjan M. Zupančič, our long-standing judge for human rights in the European Court of Human Rights. And I don't know if any of those who have graduated from Law School and are judges, constitutional judges or anyone, but this man has taught them, I doubt that any of you or any of them can stand up in any way against the positions that this person represents. You received the government in September that law restricting the entry of illegal migrants into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia; and you argued in the government. You must say this to the public because Mr Klemenčič objected, but the interior minister advocated this. Then, in accordance with the principle of zinc, zinc and zinc, this took until the new year. On December 15th, I was tasked by the parliamentary group to write down this law, to file it, to write it, to write it, and then to reverse it, and we said we would not prevent the government from filing it. And the government filed it. Before he arrived at the National Assembly and before we even saw him, a letter had already arrived from Europe, a letter received by Mr Thorbjorn Jagland, Secretary of the Council of Europe, where he was strongly protesting against something that had not yet been accepted, not even in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; he was already strongly protesting. The public needs to know. The letter was written in Ljubljana, the corridors are clearly spoken of, which I will now publicly announce is written in the cabinet of Mr Klemenčič, sent up there, signed and returned. What did Boštjan M. Zupančič say about that? I stress, first authority, even for human rights. He said that when he defined himself to this letter, I will take it that I will not read the matter, I very much hate to read: that it is his duty to send such letters around, but before sending them around, let him think a little about who he sends. He said: The English have also closed the tunnel under the Channel, which is the same as they were supposed to do to me, and that's the same story. And what happened? He didn't send a letter because he didn't hope to send such a letter to London, he didn't hope to send such a letter to London, because the English would be all over him. What about the Slovenians? Slovenians – wow, wow, human rights, bad. Then you meet at the Modern Center Party and fight. The president, before marriage comes to the National Assembly, says he doesn't want to go to school anymore. Excuse me, excuse me, Mr Zupančič clearly said that the closure of the border does not constitute a violation of human rights because these people are not in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia cannot, however, violate human rights outside its territory. This means that if the border closes, it does not violate human rights. This is logic as a white day, but these are the words of Mr Zupančič. So tell him that's not the case. Tell him it's not like that. He also said that at Ljubljana Law School, they produce middle-aged legal sisters; not graduate lawyers. Those are his words. A critical gentleman with whom I did not agree many times, for example, on deleted persons; but what he is now saying is an interesting matter. And the gentleman is Mr. Klemenčič's advisor. Isn't that an interesting story?Oh, my God! You know we're fucking around with these things. Now that's all. He supports this law, which we will now consider, and you are fighting, which one of you will be more beautiful and which one of you will go to class or will not go. Please! These are literally absurd matters, as far as this is concerned. And then we have some minister who I don't like at all, because of her political pedigree, that's an internal minister who has one thing, forgive the expression, I can't say as they say in the people's talks. It clearly tells Europe up there that we do not need any advisers here, because we know how to write our own legislation. She said that one day behind me when I said it on the Odessa, but I can only congratulate her, even though I'm not politically close. But I would have expected, ladies and gentlemen, that the first man of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would have done this; he does not hope, but he does. The President, everyone's talking about a marriage that's only gonna be on the agenda, so I'm talking about it, at least in part. However I look at Mr. Krivica's point of view, he advocates another story. For me, if I put on the weight of Mr Zupančič and Mr Krivica, then all the references of Mr Zupančič go to heaven, if I say so, even though they were both constitutional judges; however, I am giving more chances, opportunities and more difficult words to Mr Boštjan M. Zupančič. As far as the law on the agenda is concerned, we're not still in those amendments, and I can say later, but I can say now and then I won't come forward. I think we need to reduce our hands in Article 22. When I defended two police laws, a law on tasks, powers and others on organisation in this National Assembly, we had everything or a large majority of the sub-legislative acts prepared on the day of the adoption of the legislation at the Ministry of Interior. And I don't think it's gonna take you six months to write a submarital act about how you're going to pay the damages. I ask you kindly to shorten these hands, making it important to shorten the marriage so that it can be brought to life first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u39	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u40	Presidents, you are leading this session and I am obviously so stupid that I no longer know whether we are in Europe or not. In view of this debate, which has taken place in the last hour, I have the feeling that we are no longer in Europe and that we are not also a member of the European Union. And that even what is happening in Strasbourg – I thank you for teaching and explaining well to Members and Members – is not applicable to us. Is it my procedural proposal to be taught whether we are still in Europe or still a member of the European Union, or is there anything else that comes from the courts in Strasbourg? Then I'll have a replica. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u41	We're still in Europe. You want a replica? Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Since Gorenak mentioned me, I have a chance of replicating. Dr. Gorenak didn't even notice that he shot himself in the middle. Finally, he said in essence that the guilt of a visa called BMZ stretches, but it was already in his stories; let us let it stand. First authority or impotence. The Lord was just proposed for a position and was there as was someone else. And Mr BMZ, let's be honest with you, one of the greatest of these kinds of intellectuals, sexists and chauvinists who have spoken in Slovenia lately. What they're saying, look at his explanations. And also what he suggested in some of the reports was that those who were serious about the subject were torn apart. Just because someone's been in some functions doesn't mean that someone's been doing something doesn't mean they're doing something forever. Mr Cerar participated in the writing of the Constitution, and now his government in the National Assembly pushes anti-constitutional laws. Please, at least from some of the science doctors in the National Assembly, who are about as much of us as the statistically measured rate of people living below the threshold of poverty would expect these populism to be limited to a limit. Because otherwise, let's get the fire started here, and let's get those Ph.D.s on fire and call ourselves Joze, Pepe, and so on. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u43	It was still an interest in the debate, so I'm asking you to apply. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! However, in the context of the debate on the amendment to Article 3, which deals with beneficiaries of compensation for the setting up of technical barriers or, according to the domestic statement, of wire fences, the following fact must be pointed out that the situation of all those landowners who are subject to these technical obstacles must be addressed as a matter of urgency. And this law regulates it. It was more unacceptable that this happened or that it was only happening right now. The relationship to property needs to be cleaned up and adequate legal protection must also be provided. Whether legal protection is sufficiently guaranteed or not, there are several opinions on this law. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it could be considered that this protection is too weak or that there is insufficient scope in this law to allow the landowner to exercise full judicial protection. This is one of the issues that is present all the time in these interventions; on the other hand, I would also like to point out that the remuneration received by the owners is part of that principle or the resolution of ownership and the restriction on the use of these land due to the so-called public interest. It is probably undeniable that the public interest in ensuring the security of each individual, country and property is one of the key public interests and it is right and good if this public interest were further defined in this law. The fact is that the financial implications provided for in this Act for compensation are expected to amount to EUR 300,000 in 2017, then EUR 280 000 in the following year 2018. If these technical obstacles were to be found somewhere by 2028, they would cost EUR 2 million. Even so, when we talk about border control and the closure of the border, however, we decide to close the border to also close the capital outflow into tax havens. And here is my proposal to the government to come as soon as possible with a proposal for a law that taxes itself with a 25% rate of all transactions from Slovenia into tax havens. This is a resource that we urgently need to ensure human security and the security of the country. Only the compensations referred to in this Article are not the only costs; here is certainly the functioning of the police, here is the sure functioning of administrative units, here is for sure the functioning of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and all the costs associated with the maintenance of this system, which will certainly not be small in these years. And what I have repeatedly warned about monitoring the state border and ensuring security will also need to be seriously discussed about changing the security system. As we once had an organized Territorial Defense that we had people trained and installed in each congregation and in every local community, we must also settle as soon as possible in these difficult situations in which we are obviously entering. All of this is also related to additional resources, and I can say that Slovenia is currently more exposed than migrants and more affected by the draining of capital into tax havens and the consequent depletion of our budget, including investment in development, science and infrastructure. Slovenia is already under attack because of the outflow of this capital, so a 25% tax measure on all transactions in tax havens is necessary, otherwise we will simply not be able to ensure what we are talking about successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u45	I saw there was still interest in the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, chairman. Mr. Weber is a principle of some important subject, and I'm so fond of pennies. However, if we are talking a little bit about the law being dealt with, it is very widespread. If he has already talked about this, he should also mention, in addition to tax oasis, the tax wheel within the European Union. We know where Mr. Juncker's coming from and so on. It is usually said that my rookies too like to say - and the police want more and more repression. It's not true if you're talking to cops and cops, far from it. And with these laws, what I've said before, we forget about these people who are going to have to do it on the ground. You know, I started the topic of their inappropriate equipment, you could start the topic of their inappropriate salaries, you could start the topic of how some government actor goes to America on Facebook to gain something, because some minister created such a situation. But somehow it would spread the subject too much. If someone listened to Mr. Webber, they'd think he was in the United Left. The revolutionary party of the Social Democrats, according to one district minister for equal opportunities, is among almost all affairs in this Slovenian country and society; perhaps not partly in the arms affair. Your minister is the Secretary of Defense, and we are waiting for a new defence law to come. In particular, you, Comrade Janko, were cut out and suspended, we both know, because of half a sentence; or how many were there. Seven, eight words that some secretary may have misspelled. But your successor called people to talk about TES 6 because it's going to be a agenda item, and they didn't call it off. Why didn't they bite her? Because it is a “deal” between the Contiča line and the line between the former Slovenian Democratic Party Member. And these are the extraordinary conditions in this society and in the country that we should deal with; not make fun of people who work under a minimum. We're spreading the subject quite a bit, but unfortunately this government is riding a wave of populism, and I believe that Janez Janša is now having a hard time thinking — mother, this five-year-old pub just stole my show. But it seems to me that we have much else to do in Slovenia; and I must tell everyone that, in fact, in this debate, the only thing that grieves me is New Slovenia. It kind of saddens me that there is a more Bajukovsky-Tonin line, and not a line of ladies, which I respect very much. Why? Because the President of the Constitutional Court told us very well how it is with us in Slovenia, that often in one person conservativeness and what is more represented by the United Left is breaking down. And it seems to me that it would be time for us to have a conservative 21st century party, that, apart from the waiters and experts working in this house, I will have something to talk about the future of Slovenia with someone else. If I read the Constitution strictly, Vinko Gorenak is my representative and I am his, because I am still part of the people. Somehow there are politicians here with a long-standing mileage, which they say is a little bit like that — well, human rights. Like it's some kind of salad, because we can eat the south without salad. I apologize for not being such a person in such a house; such people should not be around this house for 400 kilometers; then perhaps they would know what it means to be a stranger. And in the case of such people, the deceased gentleman, often mentioned, would probably be sent back from Germany or perhaps killed at the border; but you all know who I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u47	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Instead of telling Dr. Trčku that New Slovenia's policy, led by Mrs Ljudmila Novak, is the same as New Slovenia's policy when led by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Of course, we live in a free country and everyone has the right, thank God that he interprets every word that someone says. Thus, the word border has many interpretations, many meanings. But I'm going to focus now, and really focus on the Law on State Border Control, which the National Assembly is doing today. And I actually went into this very important marriage. I've taken a deep look at the notion of the state border. There's no state without a state border. That is why much has been said, written and also made key decisions regarding the state border on 25 June 1991 when our country was created. Normally and especially when using maps, we think of the border as an infinite thin line limiting the state area; but the area of the country is not just a two-dimensional space, it is not just a surface. It is a space of three dimensions, it is a three-dimensional space that stretches over the surface of the earth to its height and depth. The border line defines the area of irregular form which limits the surface area, airspace and underground, which are an integral part of the State area, i.e. the territory where the State exercises exclusive State jurisdiction. That's what this is about. And as I mentioned earlier, on June 25, 1991, you all know, dear colleagues and colleagues, that a fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia with 25. 6. In the second chapter, it states that the national borders of the Republic of Slovenia are internationally recognised state borders as far as the SFRJ with the Republic of Austria, with the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Hungary in the work in which these countries border the Republic of Slovenia; and the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia in the context of the FFRJ. The State Border Control Act, which we are talking about today, provides that the national border under this law is the land and maritime border and the airports and ports through which international traffic takes place. The state border thus marks a very important, extreme point to which the sovereignty of our country of the Republic of Slovenia extends. We're talking about sovereignty, ladies and gentlemen. The most common limits are laid down by international agreements between countries and, as such, must also be internationally recognised. The state border has a dual function, limiting the area of state jurisdiction, sometimes calling it an effective one; or setting an external border on territorial sovereignty and representing a defensive line. The Republic of Slovenia is a member of the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia is a member of NATO, and this is also described in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. I will now look at this law on State border control through the European Union's Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy. This has seen the light of the Council last June and is of great importance to us as we are a member of the European Union. The meaning and even the existence of our Union are at stake at this point; and yet our citizens and the world of the European Union need a stronger European Union than ever before. Our wider area is becoming increasingly unstable and uncertain, crises within and outside our borders have a direct impact on the lives of our citizens. A strong union is in difficult times. The Union, which thinks strategically, has a common vision and action in style. I'm not some EU fanatic, I'm an EU-realist, and I think it's precisely those crises we're facing – and here I'm especially exposing the security crisis – that are the crises that actually point to this, which is my assessment that we need the European Union. If I say more – more Europe, of course I mean that Europe of values, that Schuman Europe. And when I say more Europe, I always ask myself and ask the question before all of us what Europe we need; in Slovenia and within the European Union as a whole. None of our Member States of the European Union has the power or resources to deal with these threats that threaten us alone and to exploit the opportunities of today. The Union, which is still made up of nearly half a billion citizens, is our potential without chance. What's the alternative? I'm asking a question to the Eurosceptics. And if you are reading the European Union's Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy, you will find security among the priorities in the first place. Security is no longer on its own today. And the global strategy of the European Union begins at home, starting in the Republic of Slovenia, because we are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For the sake of our Union, citizens can enjoy more security, democracy and prosperity than ever before. Our population and territory today are at risk of terrorism, hybrid threats, economic instability, climate change and unreliable energy supply. Europe will be able to promote peace and security within and outside its borders if it has sufficient ambition and strategic autonomy. When we talk about monitoring, protecting national borders or the external borders of the European Union, we are talking about the need to protect our values. That's what this is about. And in this context, I support the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3. As I do not intend to advertise later, I also say that I also support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 22. But I am asking myself, or I am appealing to the government, and I am afraid — because property is sacred, it is a constitutional category — that the establishment of this system of compensations will cost owners and owners more than the cumulative payment of these compensations. If so, then we have done nothing, then we are unable to do these very simple homework where the state and, above all, the National Assembly must protect private property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u49	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u50	Nicely greeted! First of all, I regret that we must set up fences today and make it difficult again for citizens to move from one country to another. This is also due to the fact that, as such, the European Union has not done everything to secure its common external borders because it does not speak a single language. This does not mean that this European Union is superfluous and that we do not need it in the future. I think we will need it more and more, only its foreign border policy must be more uniform and more decisive. I wish we could help all those who need our help, especially children, women, the elderly, the sick, and so on. But we all know that in this migration wave it is not only those who actually need our help, but also thousands and thousands of others who are looking for a better life in Europe. We can't, we can't ban it; yet we don't have to solve all the problems that have happened elsewhere. I think we must first protect our citizens in our country. This is our fundamental duty and also the right of citizens to be protected. I also support the amendment to Article 3 because I am aware that, as a result, many citizens have more costs, they cannot use their land. I know that at the time the rivers of migrants and refugees crossed our territory, some could not have opened their inn or some other establishments; and that there was damage. And for our common security, it is not right for these citizens who own these lands to bear all the associated costs or losses they have. I therefore agree that these refunds are justified. However, I wish that these barriers between Slovenia and Croatia were not necessary. That is what we can say when better relations or greater mutual trust are established between the two countries. Unfortunately, this trust has been undermined in the past for many reasons, as we know; and therefore I think that we should work even more intensively to make more mutual trust and cooperation between our neighbouring countries and Slovenia. Then we wouldn't need as many serious obstacles as we have now. I still think the people who need our help have to get it. However, I doubt that, in the event that another law on foreigners is being dealt with when our security is threatened, we must just let it happen in a state of chaos. We must not allow it, we must not allow it, and unfortunately we must also adopt some stricter laws than otherwise. And I don't know exactly why we're afraid. Like refugees are until they get to the first safe country. For the time being, there is no war in all our neighbouring countries, no war anywhere. So we're not the first safe country they've come to. Therefore, I do not know why such threats and fears would violate human rights. We Slovenian citizens have human rights too, and in our country we must first take care of ourselves in order to be more secure. Relying on others is not the most responsible. It is nice to work with others, trust each other, solve problems together; but above all, our country has to take care of its citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I agree that good neighbourly relations are key to many things. However, there would certainly be a need for joint action at the level of the European Union, and I think we have been talking about this all year. Today my forerunners have discussed many things, and to return to the Law on the Protection of the State Border. Perhaps very briefly, what is the content of this law because we have talked about foreigners, migrant waves and many others. This law, however, contains additions to the establishment or compensation for public land use where there are some technical obstacles; it also contains a clearer regulation of technical means for State border control; it is then aligned with uniform police standards and some minor changes. It is my opinion that the most important change in this proposal of the law has certainly compensated landowners who are obliged to leave their land to the public benefit of a service. These refunds are regulated by the amendment, we correct what the Legislative and Legal Service has warned that it has been somewhat awkward to formulate. I absolutely agree with this that we are now talking about the difficult use of land on a regular basis; and not about the lack of land, which is a fundamental difference. However, it is very important that the police coordinate their activities with the Ministry of Environment and Space, because it is also very important in this respect how the matter works [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please sign up. Also a representative of the government, of course. Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I guess I have to repeat myself like in a mill. If this is already the case, which is also the case with a colleague in seat 90, as he likes to say, he has already mentioned. I am also afraid that the establishment of this will cost at least half as much if not as the actual amount of this money. If that's what this is about, even in the light of what's mag. The culprit wrote about the protection of the border, about the non-operation of Europe and more; then we would not send our contingent of soldiers to the Baltic to fertilize a little bit, but those dozens of millions would spend a little more than 14 euros on the plot and on the appropriate equipment of the repressive organs, which he also somehow mentions in his letter, which our media will probably hide somewhere in readers' letters. I somehow agree with Mrs Ludmila that we cannot solve all the problems of this world and of this universe; at the same time, we cannot and must not put ourselves in the grip of human life. And that seems to me to be the point. I've heard a lot of things in my opinions. The SD spoke – mass crossings outside border crossings. This is simply not true; if you look at the whole number of people who went, everyone except those few miles of people in Slovenia who lived by that corridor that was set up, you didn't even know it was happening. Let's stop lying if I say so myself. But it is a question of this Europe, which you are always addressing again, even more on the so-called right than elsewhere; a Christian, because we have some European Members, who are mostly yours, and very rarely come to any meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs. Let them get here once Friday, they'll be home a little early, we'll discuss these issues; but not like that – I have nothing to do with it. I have with all the nonsense that's going on in this House, something, with my experts, I read everything and I can't do it that way; and this Europe, and this, and this, and this. I assume that in the next European elections only Nova Slovenije and the United Left will run, you will not remain, based on what has been said here today. We've got four, four, five, three. And then it will be a little bit more, hopefully, the active voice of Slovenia in the European Parliament. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you, President, for your word. I will address some of the questions you have raised, and in general briefly to the discussion that has been held here today. I am of the opinion that the international community is making efforts, but because of the scale of the migration crisis, the future is certainly uncertain. It is precisely because of the absence of common solutions at European Union level that many countries have taken and are taking different restrictive measures. As you know, the countries of the north of us are introducing internal border controls to limit the entry of migrants. The countries have also tightened their foreign admission policy by setting quotas for the admission of foreigners to their countries. They have introduced so-called quota systems, but I believe that that is why we are also obliged to ensure security for our citizens and to be primarily accountable to our citizens. The Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the security of our people. We certainly do not want to allow illegal migrants to be exposed themselves, but also to wander through villages, cities, parks and railway stations, as we are witnessing in neighbouring countries. In 2016, we did not address mass migration in an unregulated migration process only through border crossings, but we also witnessed mass migration across the green border. In 2016, we addressed a thousand 148 illegal crossings without a regulated migration flow. This is about, if I am not mistaken, a 113% increase compared to 2015 and therefore one of the measures is to amend legislation, temporary technical barriers at the border, while also receiving-registration and accommodation centres. And these are measures to ensure the safety of our citizens and also the safety of migrants themselves. Mr Dobovšek highlighted the regulation of the military airport Cerklje ob Krka. The police are not in charge, and this is not a police matter to regulate the Cerklje military airport near Krka. However, the police are responsible for establishing a temporary border crossing at the military airport. The new law now clearly distinguishes between civilian and military airports, as the Ministry of Transport in the past has declared itself unfit for the Cerklje ob Krka military airport. In doing so, we would like to reduce the procedure in particular so that someone does not say "unseemly". The regulation of technical means was fully in line with the Legislative and Legal Service. A closed system of technical means, where technical means are now strictly listed in the law, is also sufficient for the Information Officer. But I must say, Member Trček has pointed out that there was no legal basis before. The legal basis was certainly in the current state border control law in 8. Article, but it's a general basis. It is written down – other technical means. Now these technical means are strictly listed. Therefore, there is no difference between the automatic plate recognition system at the border crossing which checks the license plate – whether the license plate will be checked by a police officer or the system for automatic registration of ANPR license plates. And this was already arranged and installed before the Schengen evaluation in 2006. When the Schengen evaluators assessed whether Slovenia met all the conditions for joining the Schengen area or abolishing internal border controls in 2006, the ANPR system was assessed as a good practice introduced by the Slovenian police at border crossing points. Member Vrtovec mentioned the regulation of property rights. This law regulates interference with constitutional property rights. That's why we're talking about landowners. And this law regulates constitutional property rights. I have to say again, border controls are carried out at external borders and we cannot possibly compare this with compensatory measures implemented at internal borders where persons are controlled solely on the basis of risk analyses; and not systematically. Everyone is controlled at border crossings, so systematic control is established. The conditions for the use of technical means are cumulative, i.e. the exercise of State border control and the prevention of unauthorised crossing of the state border. These measures may not be implemented within the country or, as mentioned, even throughout the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Technical means intended to control the state border may only be used where border controls are carried out. In this regard, we have also taken into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and amended Article 8 so that it is now clear that the technical means referred to in paragraph 1 may be used only in the exercise of State border control. Finally, I would like to define myself to the amendments tabled. With the proposed amendment, the owner or owner will certainly be entitled to compensation in the event of land operations themselves. As regards measures which are not daily, but are specific or implemented because of some exceptional circumstances, which is also duly defined by this amendment. Also, property rights will be restricted by service only in the case of land use which makes it difficult to use land on a regular basis. Otherwise, any exercise of police duties, walking, land-farming with a view to the implementation of border protection would already constitute a basis for the lodging of an application, which would be pointless or premeditated in the light of the current State Border Control Act. Even now the owners had to allow the police to carry out their duties. With regard to the amendment to Article 22, I can say that the determination of the methodology will take into account the scope of the land intervention, the creditworthiness of that land in accordance with the rules governing the recording of real estate and the type of actual use in accordance with the rules governing the types of actual use. It is therefore intended to lay down such criteria as to enable, in particular, simple and rapid decision-making and payment of compensation in the legal procedure itself. We estimate that the 60-day deadline for the proper and quality preparation of this Regulation is real and also justified. With regard to the Rules on the Implementation of the Law on State Border Control, I must say that we have also gone into amending the Rules of Procedure on the basis of the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service. Given the broader scope of the amendments already in force, I also assess that the proposed deadline is justified and realistic. However, I can assure you that we will do everything possible to change the latter as soon as possible and try to accept it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I have a chance of replica because I was mentioned. Do you know what is very dangerous, Mr Secretary of State, in this debate and debate? Logic, we had something, and now we're going to respect it a little bit more. I wouldn't be surprised if in a relatively short time some kind of marriage would come out that would respect the IMSI Catchers a little bit. Those who know little of what we are talking about know what we are talking about, Mr Gorenak. And then it turns out that we had a little bit, and now we're going to have a little respect. In a sector that currently has a lot of problems with itself, especially in police work, KNOVS is currently dealing with this. That seems kind of insanely problematic to me. The security of this country, citizens and citizens, foreigners, including refugees, is not limited to your ministry. As Mariborians, we know exactly what the situation is at our University Clinical Center. This is also a matter of security for citizens and citizens who should be taken care of. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate on Article 3? Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u60	Pretty short, so we don't say anything at the amendment we tabled ourselves. It's nothing special. We support the law, as we said, but we still think there are enough capable people in the internal ministry who can draw up two sub-laws half the time before they have given themselves a deadline. The first act is the one issued by the Minister referred to in Article 8; the second is the one issued by the Government under Article 8b, of course, by the Ministry of the Interior. I think it's feasible and there shouldn't be any particular problem. However, this may be a test for the coalition if some amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party are capable of supporting them; or this will not work either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. No one wants to discuss it anymore, so we are closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving on to 16. On the proposal of a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in connection with the censorship in the public service of radiotelevision of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. The Committee on Culture, as the parent working body of the National Assembly, proposes that it be decided that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr Dragan Matic, to further explain the draft decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Committee on Culture is at its 16th regular session. 1. 2017 discussed the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning censorship at the public institute Radiotelevision Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Jozet Tank. No amendments were tabled by qualified applicants within the time limit. Complementary explanations on behalf of the applicant were submitted by the MEP mag. Branko Grimes. As a proposal for an act of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service also examined the legal and regulatory aspects of the Constitution. Their representative presented their opinion in the introduction. Regarding the proposed recommendations of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the Government to monitor individual cases of censorship and the state of journalistic autonomy, the Government has indicated that, under the Radio Television Act, Slovenia can appoint part of the members of the Supervisory Board and, on the basis of justified economic reasons, amend the amount of the contribution by a maximum of 10%. However, the government does not have any leverage to provide a substantive impact on the functioning of RTV Slovenia. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service also drew attention to a decision of the Constitutional Court in which the Constitutional Court assessed the provisions of the Media Act and stressed, inter alia, that freedom of expression for public statements means that they are independent of any State or other control and that no censorship is permitted. The Legislative and Legal Service has expressed its opinion that the Constitution, legislation and decisions of the Constitutional Court, which follow the principles of the National Assembly and the Government prevent it from overseeing, assessing the level of autonomy of individual media, journalists and editors and, although on the ground that they want to protect, expressing itself on a case-by-case basis. Thus, the Government would violate the legally guaranteed autonomy of RTV Slovenia when following the proposed recommendations. Minister of Culture Anton Peršak stated that the internal decisions of the Public Institute of Radiotelevision Slovenia are autonomous and that the Government agrees with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The position on the item under consideration was also expressed by some others invited to the meeting. Acting Director of the Public Institute Radiotelevision Slovenia mag. Marko Filli explained, among other things, the course of events regarding the documentary film. He stressed that the author created and published the latter freely and that it was still available online today; however, the individual complications were due to the unregulated copyright of one of the videos used in the film. Finally, he said that there was no pressure or censorship on Radiotelevision Slovenia. The president of the programme council of Radiotelevision Slovenia, Miran Zupanič, felt that this was a case for an archival documentary. He stressed that, as President of the RTV Programme Council, he had received explanations from the author concerning the complications. As a reason for the inconvenience, the author stated to him unordered copyrights and did not mention censorship. However, according to the President of the RTV Programme Council, unregulated copyright is a major problem. Especially because the authors themselves have to regulate matters related to this area in their creation, which is not right. The President of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, Peter Grašek, said that they would establish an internal service for the regulation of copyright in the future and that production and professional processes on RTV Slovenia would be optimized. That censorship is a serious observation that can devalue in the parliamentary debate if it does not have a real basis and that RTV Slovenia has legal autonomy and competent authorities to deal with such issues, the representative of the Peace Institute Brankica Petkovic also explained in her position. The discussion followed, in particular, on the powers of the Government to monitor the situation at the public institute of RTV Slovenia, the supervisory functions of the National Assembly, the inadmissibility of any form of censorship, the content of the decision of the Constitutional Court and the powers of the Supervisory and Programme Council of RTV Slovenia. At the conclusion of the debate, a member of the Committee proposed that the Committee should adopt, on the basis of the opinions expressed in the debate, the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, that the proposal for a recommendation should not be considered further. Thus, the Committee on Culture, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decided that the Proposal for a Recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning censorship at the public institute of RTV Slovenia was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Evi Irgl's representative for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of her mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Of course, I would also like to start by saying hello to Mr Minister, who is responsible for this area, but unfortunately I do not see him yet, perhaps he will join us if I am not mistaken, of course he should be present today at this meeting. Otherwise, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we submitted a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding censorship at the public institute of RTV Slovenia as early as 1 December 2016, and the treatment on the competent Committee on Culture took place only the day before we actually converted the request into a recommendation. What does this time shift indicate? The timing of consideration from the events that led to the preparation of the above-mentioned recommendations shows that the discomfort of coalition parties when it comes to the debate on the implementation of the RTV Act is extremely great. Moreover, since the Committee on Culture is in the lead, Member Dr. Matić is trying to do everything with different manoeuvres to prevent discussions on the implementation of the RTV Act from even coming, the requirements of our meetings, which, of course, we put in place by the Rules of Procedure on the competent homework body, regarding the functioning of the RTV House, are being rejected as per the current tape, even though the Rules of Procedure should call for a meeting. Restricting the debate on the implementation of the RTV Act, which is a public institution of specific cultural and national importance, with a view to providing democratic, social and cultural needs, is at least as unprecedented as the content itself. However, the search for a basis for preventing public debate is not only a legislative but also a constitutional problem. Calling on the Government not to be responsible for monitoring the situation in the public service of RTV with regard to censorship and journalistic autonomy, and not being competent to ensure the smooth implementation of the mission, objectives and tasks of RTV under the law, is a routine exercise and hypocrisy. Something similar, you will be able to remember, before we appointed members of the Programme Council or appointed those members who were previously proposed by Cerar's government or coalition and should be independent and impartial in accordance with the law, but far from that, but perhaps more later on as a proposaler. The coalition has appointed active politicians and a place in the RTV Programme Council to the Programme Council, even to a person who publicly spreads dangerous hate speech, particularly to believers. At the same time, he was more than obviously interfering in some way with the documentary, which we will talk more about later. Let me draw attention to the double criteria already in place in this government. Even in this area. Indeed, when we point out in the SDS the issue of the implementation of the RTV Act in general, it is clear to us that we are not concrete. When we want to talk about this on a case-by-case basis, we are getting sucked in by a plasma critic that it is unacceptable interference. Otherwise, I am not a member of the Committee on Culture, but I am monitoring what is going on in the field of media, and I would like to stress once again that we are talking here about a public institution that is of particular importance, which must be financed by citizens and citizens on a monthly basis by the mandatory contribution of RTV. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to draw attention to the unacceptable censorship in the area of archiving and accessibility of broadcasts, we are specifically talking about the documentary film File: JLA, and call on the Government to act in accordance with its competences and to enable the smooth implementation of the mission of RTV Slovenia in accordance with the law. The removal of documentary film from the web archive RTV Slovenia, which is undoubtedly an exceptional historical value, especially for younger generations, is censorship in the true sense of the word. Especially since it was not accessible to the public at the time of the greatest public interest. This should not be happening at this time, colleagues and colleagues. It is true that the documentary was then republished, but it was in some form shortened or censored form. It was not until later, when the public protested, that it could be seen in its original form. However, the fact that the broadcast was made available again is further proof that there were no formal reasons for its withdrawal. Apparently, they were different. I'm afraid you're called pressure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we once again find that the laws in this country are obviously not the same and that, at the time of this government, democratic standards are being reduced and violated at the expense of various elites. Unfortunately also in the field of public RTV Slovenia, which according to its mission should represent one of the pillars of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Ms Damjani Pečnik, State Secretary, to the representative of Ms Damjani Pečnik, for an introductory explanation of her position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u66	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Culture have on several occasions provided a very clear position on the institutionalisation, autonomy and programme independence of Radiotelevision Slovenia and the powers of the Government in relation to its functioning. The Government shall have the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, which clearly lays down the powers to appoint 4 of the 11 members of the Supervisory Council, in accordance with Article 26, paragraph 1, and shall have the power, on the basis of sound economic reasons, to amend for a maximum of 10 % the amount of the contribution to the programmes of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 31(3). The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore has no mechanism within its competence to influence programme policy, as in the case of Radiotelevision, Slovenia is a democratically designed public broadcaster whose main mission is to provide the democratic, social and cultural needs of the people of the Republic of Slovenia. The very high degree of institutionalisation and, above all, the programme autonomy of Radiotelevision Slovenia are elements that separate Radiotelevision Slovenia from the concept of so-called state television, which serves mainly the interests of every ruling political and economic elite. The programming policy of Radiotelevision Slovenia is within the competence of the Programme Council. Journalists and journalists and other programme workers in addition to the applicable legal standards in their work also commit to the professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics in force in the Radiotelevision of Slovenia and to the general residenceal and ethical criteria or codes that apply in their professional field. The Ombudsman takes care of issues relating to programme content and serves as a two-way link between the Programme Council and users of public service Radiotelevision Slovenia. In view of what I have said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot adopt recommendations from Members and Members concerning the monitoring of the state of censorship and journalistic autonomy or programme policy of Radiotelevision Slovenia and the adoption of measures to ensure the smooth implementation of the mission, objectives and tasks that Radiotelevision Slovenia has under law. The government does not have such powers, so the implementation of these recommendations would constitute a grave interference with their editorial autonomy. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia allows the smooth implementation of the mission, objectives and tasks that Radiotelevision Slovenia has, by exercising control and measures related to the functioning of Radiotelevision Slovenia only within the framework of the powers that are very precisely defined by the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Jelka Godec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Radiotelevision Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national interest, which performs public service in the field of radio and television activities, primarily with a view to ensuring the democratic, social and cultural needs of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. In doing so, it is intended to provide reliable and impartial information shows, broadcasts reflecting the lives and problems of the various structures of the population, and also to ensure that documentary shows of national importance, which represent a document of the past time and time in which we live. With this and other implementations, RTV Slovenia is expected to promote understanding of all key issues of the functioning of a democratic society and an understanding of Slovenian history, culture, identity also in terms of European history and international connections. One of such shows was a documentary by Valentin Areh File: JLA – Yugoslav People's Army. The film was premiered on October 25, 2016, the day before the Slovenian holiday, the day of sovereignty. Areh's film showed all the misery or actual image of the once-sung Yugoslav army. The documentary not only showed this, i.e. actual pictures of JLA, but also revealed the essence of the activities of the Communist Party and formerly functioning elites that were destructive to many Slovenes. It is more than clear that the documentary also showed the fact that certain structures of the former regime are still in control of Slovenian political space. When the documentaries were presented, the JLA happened something that probably RTV and, in particular, the networks that were disclosed in the documentary were not foreseen. This is a large degree of viewership, a massive response to social networks and later a bitter search for documentaries in the archive broadcast RTV Slovenia. After playing, the documentary was available for a few hours in the archive with multiple changes to the web address and excuses for technical problems. Soon the same day, there was a complete censorship, and the documentary was removed from the archive of broadcasts. After that, an online installment was deleted from an archival documentary in 1980, where the inhabitants of the Cukarna testify and tell us how difficult it is to live, what conditions there are, where there are no apartments, and so on. Insert, which was cut out of the documentary File: JLA, is an insert from another documentary by the late director Janez Drozg, who recorded it in the context of RTV in 1980. Interestingly, RTV had all the copyrights for the original documentaries and later, when it was a documentary in the archive, they argued that they did not have copyrights. Under the law, RTV Slovenia is obliged to provide archival software productions that are produced within the framework of public service. In the case of a documentary by Valentin Areh, it is clear that there are circumstances on RTV Slovenia that threaten the achievement of the objectives of democratic information to the public without any partiality. There is a fact that RTV Slovenia does not follow the objectives and tasks enshrined in the RTV Slovenia Act. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the recommendation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia monitor the situation in the public institution of RTV Slovenia regarding censorship and journalistic autonomy and take all necessary measures within its competence to ensure the smooth implementation of the mission of the objectives and tasks of RTV Slovenia by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Members and others present! Allow me to present the conclusions of the debate of Members and Members of the Desus Group on this agenda item. I will not discuss and repeat the nonsense and inappropriateness of the recommendations proposed here. Indeed, everything has already been said at the meeting of the Committee and by the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry of Culture. Let me start by saying that in the course of our debate on the subject under discussion, this is about RTV Slovenia, about journalism, censorship and the like, the tendency of the Desus Group to present no position at the meeting of the National Assembly itself at all. But the next thing you know, if you keep your mouth shut, you seem to be sticking. So, someone could explain our silence in the sense that we share the position, assessment, criticism and politicisation of RTV with the proposaler's position, and we do not want that at all. In the Desus Group, we regret that such topics are even coming to the meetings of the National Assembly, since this time could be more useful for constructive discussion and adoption of the conclusions of other urgent measures, solving problems involving young and old people, men and women, employees and unemployed, healthy and sick. This is not the first time that the applicant has made inappropriate use of business rules, nor is the first open topic on the operation of RTV Slovenia. It is true that all who watch RTV Slovenia have an opinion on whether broadcasts and contributions are programmely balanced or whether reporting to journalists is objective, independent and impartial. Each one has his own opinion based on his or her views, principles, and beliefs. Neither I personally nor the integrated Desus Group, nor you, the proponents, can and should not be judges of the operation of RTV Slovenia, for that is what others are called and trained to do. The proposer himself is well aware that the operation of the public institution RTV Slovenia is carefully regulated by the law, to which information they are committed and who can even exercise control. Politics can't. Politics can't. Politics can't. Neither the Government of the Republic of Slovenia nor only the Ministry of Culture, even less the National Assembly. So let me just finish. In the Desus Group we are critical and at the same time concerned when the proposer thus takes care of the objective and impartial functioning of RTV and in fact tries to exert political pressure on the media, specifically on RTV, on journalists and editors. Members of Parliament and Members of Desus will not be involved in this, but we will be critical until such moves. In short, in the Desus Group we wish and appeal to all of you that until such meetings, which, according to the Desus Group, mean inappropriate use of the parliamentary procedure, no matter what the subject is, will be no more. Today, in our parliamentary group, we will unanimously confirm the decision on the inappropriateness of the proposed recommendations. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Have we completely lost our compass in this country? With this rhetorical question, the director of TV Slovenia, Dr Ljerka Bizilj, concludes a written explanation for the non-participation of the Committee on Culture at which he discussed alleged censorship in a public institution. But real censorship is happening with today's hearing in the National Assembly. The persistent insistence on unacceptable, even illegal political interventions makes it possible for the proposer to resume his ideological manifesto every time. Today's quasi-public debate is not about ensuring the software, organisational and financial autonomy of the public media. No, no, no. The proposaler at the level of personal disqualification paves the way for self-censorship of media employees. The Hujska dictionary continues with the persistent insult of journalists and journalists beyond decent talk, thereby making its own way of making the credibility of the public and other media persistent. While it is clear from the content of the proposal that it is a re-enactment of classical witch hunts, as there is no Imaginary being mentioned, there is no problem, either, which is addressed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The text is based on the alleged withdrawal of the Yugoslav People's Army broadcast from the RTV Slovenia web archive. That's interesting. It's not a conspiracy, not again. Nobody's hiding the show. Any average internet user can only use a few clicks at any time in the broadcast archive on the website. The content of the recommendation is inappropriate for further consideration, as assessed by the Committee on Culture. In our opinion, the content is inappropriate for any treatment in the National Assembly. The Constitutional Practice and the Opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service are unequivocal. The debate on the programme content of a public institution or of any other media is inadmissible. The Constitutional Court has pointed out in several places that freedom of the media constitutes one of the key institutional conditions for the effectiveness of the democratic process. The proposed recommendation does not contribute to the creation of such conditions. The adoption of such a recommendation would constitute a dangerous precedent in the European criterion and a direct threat to the freedom of speech of Slovenia. Based on past experience, it can therefore be concluded that the purpose of the applicant is not to seek out the technical specificities of placing a specific broadcast in the online archive, it is only one more stage in a series of stages in which it wishes to expose the public's mistrust in certain media. But when the confidence of the public is dried out, the media shuts down, and others take its place. The proposer shall, of course, also offer an answer, which should be the answer. Respected and respected, the largest opposition party, in relation to the institution of special cultural and national importance, has already crossed the rubicon before, and we therefore expect in the Member State of the Joint Social Democrats similar proposals for acts whose content in terms of the constitution, laws and competences of the institution is not even suitable for discussion, will not come into this room. Otherwise, the question of the lost compass will no longer be merely rhetorical in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Again, we have a recommendation from the SDS on media and journalism. This time they are referring to an alleged censorship which is supposed to take place on RTV Slovenia. As we have heard many times in all this time, we have also heard today that RTV Slovenia is an autonomous medium and that the Government formally does not have and, of course, should not even have the opportunity to influence the content. However, the SDS persists, and this is some new attempt in this series of attacks on the media and journalism, which, of course, are not of the taste of this party. According to the discredits on potential terrorists, on punk journalism, on serving prostitutes, this time on the agenda is the supposed censorship of the JLA documentary. Of course, it is an extremely trendy documentary who hardly deserves such a name, which also operates in cities by mentioning untruths. In today’s popular language, it could be said that it is a post-factual documentary, a documentary that is extremely ideological and is also very appropriate to what has become the mythology of SDS. Of course, politics can assess, it can comment on the content offered by the media, but it must not interfere with their creation or distribution, and this is a fact that everyone should be aware of. However, if not directly, at least directly. He spoke on behalf of the proposer on the committee. Branko Grims, who is the father of the RTV Slovenia Act with his professional team. This so-called Grimes law has narrowed down the door to public broadcasting politics. RTV has become, thanks to this law, a political interference range. Of course, RTV has other problems. Let us say that he tries to do his TV work by competing with commercial private stations, making his mission, his public mission, worse and worse. Nor does it by completely dogmatically summarizing the guidelines, the instructions of neoliberal institutions, or by balancing and completely uncritical reporting on those who spread intolerance, xenophobia and racism. As a party to the current law, which, at the time she was in government, with political trade and other interference, has done much direct damage to Slovenian media and journalism, she is at the very least called upon to recommend media policy. The editorial policy should or may be determined in the case of media owned by it. What should politics do about public media? It may, or should, provide greater autonomy to the public media, help quality independent new platforms and in general establish conditions to reduce market pressures. In fact, the media could become public services. These are issues that we should be dealing with, not with some sort of alleged censorship about a documentary that is short-lived if not underaverage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you, Chairman. I suggest you do your job as chairman here. In fact, the other panellist has already dealt with one of the groups in a row. On the agenda and the topic at this time is the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, not the passing of judgments, judgments and opinions on other parliamentary groups. So I suggest that if this practice continues to alert the speaker, he should stick to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The agenda item is clear. What I have to say is, of course, that the debate from the views of other parliamentary groups in the introduction was actually introduced by the Social Democratic Party. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, Slovenian Democratic Party. So as far as that's concerned, I don't think I can do it at this point. We have tried this several times, and I have already warned myself about it, it has not worked out, it has been repeated, and of course I have no reason to apply the principle that you do not adhere to in others. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please proceed procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u78	Vice President, look, that's what I'm gonna say. Finally, I will make a procedural proposal. In no term of office, and you have been in another institution for quite a number of years, what is happening now has not happened. I'd like to point out that it hasn't happened what's going on right now. Whoever raises their hand gets procedural. This was introduced by the three of you who run the National Assembly. That's not what it was until now. Your predecessor Gantar always said no, you won't get procedural because you abused him 14 days ago. Not in this term. On the basis of what our views, I will say, it has evolved that the President should not interfere with the opening acts? That's not true. Look, over there was the previous president of the National Assembly, who turned off Mrs. Eva Irgle's microphone. He turned the microphone off when she represented the position of the delegation. But you have stood up, all three of you, this does not apply only to you, to the view that those who speak for the main speaker and represent the position of the Group of Members are untouchable. If it's untouchable, then it can start to insult, it can start to scream, maybe one day someone will pull a gun out and you won't react as chairman. I'm not just talking to you, I'm talking about what the President of the National Assembly and both Vice-Presidents are doing, because there is no difference. In short, you've introduced this practice that I don't think is good. And that's why we have the greatest anarchy in this composition of the National Assembly. Far from the greatest anarchy. And seriously, and also my procedural proposal, please sit down at the College, agree on how you will conduct these meetings and try to get them at least this past year and a half to the level your predecessors had. Finally, Mr Weber was in charge of the National Assembly, but he was formerly Virant, and Mr Tsukati and others, no one allowed such matters. And I think that colleague Anže was right when she said that it was about presenting the views of the Group of Members, and I did not react at all when the representative of the Government spoke because she was speaking in general her opinion. I deeply disagree with him. I think she was talking nonsense, but I can't, but I feel like I'm not attacking her. While both the predecessors or the three, I don't know, were attacking us. Let them talk about the recommendation and not talk about SDS. We'll talk about the SDS. So I suggest that you open this question at the College meeting and start running the National Assembly, the three of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We've already dealt with this at the College. At the College, we also discussed the need to adopt the parliamentary code and the SDS was against me being wrong about the title. In short, I mean, some things just went their way and that's why we're at some point where we're at. And I don't see why I'm not stopping any of the other pimps from stopping those other pimps. I never stopped you either. Here you go, Dr. Ange Logar. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you, Chairman. Look, in your answer to my procedural question, you said something that I don't think should happen in this house. You said that because some people are in violation, you could violate the others. In addition, you have indicated the name of a party which has ceased to exist since 2001. So for a violation that occurred before 2001, when, for example, the Social Democratic Party may have polished its stances, and today it does not, in 2017 you allowed two coalition parties to settle with the SDS, and then justified it, but see, because you did it, so the rest of you can do it. Imagine you say that to bank criminals. You have done this before, and we have not persecuted you, but you can continue to do so; and you can do so in the position of the chairman of the National Assembly. President-in-Office, my procedural proposal is to limit yourself to complying with the Rules of Procedure, and if you are not able to take this place, among other things, there is another Vice-President of the National Assembly sitting here, and I believe that he would lead this meeting more in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u81	I apologized earlier. So I apologize again for the wrong name. It's not that I meant it on time, but the fact is that we at the College couldn't agree on this in order to prevent the President's introduction. The introduction is in the position of the Group as it is and, of course, we patiently implement it until the end. But if it is a debate, that is, of course, another question. In the debate, you simply state what you think or why there is controversy, etc. Good. So, Mr. Joseph Horvat. [[...]] Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Vice-President, if the three of you can't get along, it's Mr. German, you and Mr. Brglez. Yeah, how come the three of you can't deal with each other? Then back off. Let's make a deal with each other and make an order in this room. You say, "We couldn't make a deal." Yeah, how? You have to make a deal. And you need to keep some normal order in this room. Because, I don't know, Mr. Horvath, and who else has been in this room for years, and I'm telling you, it's never been like this. It's never been like this. I'm sorry, but we have such a mess that I don't know. And once again, I'm giving you the initiative to make an agreement at the College, because you are the one who is leading the work in this National Assembly. I, whenever I led things on that big committee between 2008 and 2011, was in line. The ones you were there, you know what the order was. And you need to set it up, and I really suggest you do, okay? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u83	By saying they couldn't make a deal, of course, I meant the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. I didn't mean three, that is, the president and two vice presidents. [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. Good. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! The media, their freedom, autonomy and consequently their great social responsibility are always topical. Especially with us, who are unfortunately developing too slowly in this area. It also addresses the main recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In our opinion, the proponents rightly responded to the strange event of the performance and then published the documentary TV Slovenia entitled File: JLA – Yugoslav People's Army. The publication and then the withdrawal and then the re-publishment of the modified film on the second link upset many citizens and citizens, who also addressed the New Slovenia Group in different ways. As we have heard, many have also turned to the institution of RTV Slovenia and probably to another institution. Responsible to RTV Slovenia, the Minister of Justice and the Government are expected to defend and determine that there was nothing wrong with the case at stake and that there was no censorship and no pressure on public RTV. They are also attacking the proposal for a recommendation as unnecessary, unfounded and inappropriate. In Novi Slovenija, their assessment would be difficult to agree with. The covert example of a documentary is not the only one that stirs the spirits of the public. The public who pays the company RTV Slovenia. Let us remind ourselves, for example, of the event in the execution of the Tarča broadcast on the topic of abortion. It would be hard to say there was no pressure on those responsible and on the team. It is interesting that the Legislative and Legal Service contests the appropriateness of the proposed recommendation, while in its opinion it points out the Law on RTV Slovenia 1, which, inter alia, in Article 1, paragraph 1, should explicitly highlight the institutional autonomy and editorial independence of the public institution and the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia as the founder to provide them, and must also provide adequate funding for the public service. Institutional autonomy and editorial independence and the duty of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure them. Now let us ask ourselves, who is responsible for fulfilling the duties of the Republic of Slovenia as founder of a public institution, if not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the New Slovenia – we believe that the proposal for a recommendation is appropriate and justified, so we will vote against the conclusion that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dr Dragan Matić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. As we are considering the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on censorship at the public institute of RTV Slovenia, which was proposed by Members and Members of the SDS in the process, it is of course difficult to avoid mentioning SDS in the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Colleagues from the SDS hereby recommend that the Government monitor the situation on RTV Slovenia with regard to censorship and journalistic autonomy and take all necessary measures within its competence to ensure the smooth implementation of the mission of civil tasks that RTV has under law. In the SMC Group, we are convinced that the content contained in the proposal for a recommendation, which deals with the specific programming content of public RTV, should never come on the agenda at all in the National Assembly. That the content of the recommendation is completely inappropriate and constitutes an unacceptable intervention in the autonomy of RTV in a particular case, some of the people invited to the meeting of the parent working body, such as the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, director of television, director of radio, have also told us their absence and written messages. While we have dealt with similar topics in this mandate several times at the meetings of the Committee on Culture, as well as at the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities and in these biased press reports, press pressures and the suspension of the RTV contribution. However, it is not possible for us to go beyond the fact that the SDS appears to follow the example of Croatian activists, where online protests and petitions against the payment of contributions to the national HRT have been taking place for more than two years. With this recommendation, Members of the SDS obviously do not understand or do not want to understand the texts of the legal provisions, a law which was drafted by the SDS 12 years ago. As regards the Government's competence to operate an independent and autonomous public institution, let me point out once again what both the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have said. Both the ZPS and the Government have pointed out that the public administration of RTV Slovenia has statutory institutional autonomy, editorial independence and also by law certain relevant supervisory authorities. This is the Programme Council and the Watcher's Watcher's Rights. The first shall exercise control over the implementation of the programming design and production plan of RTV and the second shall exercise protection of the rights and interests of viewers. On the other hand, media legislation provides that the functioning of the media must be based on the autonomy of editors, journalists and other authors in the creation and dissemination of programming content. According to the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the ZPS, the public institution of RTV Slovenia is so autonomous that, according to the law, the powers of the Government are in fact very limited. The Government may propose 4 out of 11 members of the Supervisory Board and amend the amount of RTV contribution by a maximum of 10 % if there are sound economic reasons for this. And that's all. If I quote the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it is only part of the last paragraph that I will not be too long. The legislative and legal service writes, citing: “Described in the Constitution, legislation and the decision of the Constitutional Court, the resulting principles of the National Assembly and the Government are thus preventing,” I stress, “are preventing it from monitoring and assessing the level of autonomy of individual media, including RTV Slovenia, journalists and editors, and, although on the ground that they want to protect it, have given rise to individual cases.” End of quote. That's how I get the Legal and Legal Service. The public institution of RTV operates in the public interest or in the public interest, the conditions for the implementation of its mission are a stable source of funding, editorial independence and the responsibility of the activity, that is to say viewers. Public RTV must remain an institution that allows democratic public debate and also provides comprehensive and in-depth information. Of course, the information program is not all that represents the scope of the public service, and many times it is forgotten. It forgets other programming content with socially important topics. Here in the first place I mean cultural and artistic program, sports program, regional centres RTV, multimedia center, music production RTV and so on. Journalists on RTV must carry out their tasks in particular professionally and autonomously, independent of their private interests and the political influence of this or that party or options, as they perform the public service. However, public service must benefit all citizens regardless of their political preferences. In conclusion, the Government does not have the power to adopt measures relating to monitoring the state of alleged censorship and journalistic autonomy, and the National Assembly does not have the authority to discuss the implementation of specific broadcasts on RTV at all. Therefore, the recommendation proposed by the SDS cannot be accepted. Members of the SMC will therefore support the conclusion that the recommendation is inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Ms Eva Irgle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! First, let me just explain that, although it is colleague Branko Grims who is in charge of this agenda item and should be speaking on behalf of the proposer today, because of certain circumstances, I have jumped in alone and will try today, on behalf of the proposaler, to implement this agenda item. Initially, I have listened very closely to the views of the members of the groups, and I must say that I expected, Mr Vice-President, as already mentioned by my colleague Ange Logar and Mr Gorenak, to respond to the moment when at least two positions were intended solely for accounting with the Slovenian Democratic Party, not the content that we are considering today. Mr Vice-President, I have repeatedly observed that you sometimes do not know what is happening in this National Assembly when you are holding meetings. I have a feeling you're not even listening to the debates, because if you were listening to them, then you'd know when to react to certain things. Of course, when someone reminds you from the left that it is necessary to strike the Slovenian Democratic Party, then wake up miraculously. Until then, sleep quietly in Trnuljčica. I think it would be a great time for you to start doing your work properly and responsibly and in accordance with the rules of procedure. Now, I will start with the content that I have listened to within the positions of the parliamentary groups in the introduction, and I must say that I am really interested in the answer to the question why so many coalition parties are advocating how the situation of the former Yugoslav Army is illustrated in a documentary film. I'm very interested in that personally. What are you afraid of? Why don't you want to see what's in the documentary? These countries, respected colleagues and colleagues, where the Yugoslav Army was as an army, are no longer. She's gone. I know, some have such nostalgic smiles, now that I say it, because they're still somehow with thoughts at the time, but these countries, respected colleagues and colleagues, are no longer. We defeated this army in 1991. And it would be about time we started to realize that and started acting like one. The Yugoslav army was an aggressor army and it is right to say so in this documentary. Of course, other things were said that were not to be discussed earlier. This period has been well illustrated for decades as it began, how this Yugoslav army developed, which is the key purpose, the key pillar was to preserve the Communist Party and the communist regime. So, obviously to some – even today with this debate we can see because you're looking for all the circuits, just not to talk about things, but rather to muddy – it wasn't to Slovenia. Apparently it wasn't up to Slovenia. And at the time those turning points happened for all of us, they were obviously just pretending to be for them for Slovenia. They were in the middle of a situation or a matter. We have therefore tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party a proposal for a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding censorship at the public institute of RTV Slovenia. We are talking about an excellent documentary film entitled File: JLA, which talks about the development and collapse of the Yugoslav People's Army. The documentary is based on numerous archival recordings and records showing the actual situation, the real picture of the Yugoslav army and the then Communist Party. It is certainly a documentary who is in the public interest. In particular, young generations of people must have an insight into the real state of the day. Of course, some of them hurt, but they'll have to accept that this era is over. Although there are still nomenclatures that insist on their positions under the previous regime. So it's a documentary that's in the public interest. This means that it is right for the public to see it as widely as possible, since without censorship and beautification it shows the functioning of JLA and the party over the decades. So clearly, through this documentary, we can see what the Yugoslav Army's social policy role was at that time. But something happened that wasn't supposed to happen. After playing, exactly the next day, this documentary was removed from the web archive broadcast. However, RTV explained that the file: JLA does not have all copyrights for online archiving. I have to say, personally, this explanation to me is a little surprising and surprising, because I myself have been working for several years at the public institute of RTV. And of course here I can say firsthand that there are a lot of great individuals out there who are doing great things, and they have to admit that. From directors, writers, leaders and so on. However, this house also has a legal service and the first task of the legal service, one of the primary roles is to regulate copyright. And I'm sorry, I'm surprised that the legal service didn't pre-arrange these copyrights, but if we know it's necessary to do so. But if she fixed them, then something else happened. Then there was censorship here, because it's quite unusual for the authors to handle it themselves. So, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, it was not about copyright, but it was an attempt at censorship, which even succeeded for a while. But then what happened was what the left is most afraid of, and this is that they triggered protests in the forums, both on Twitter and on Facebook and on social networks, which demanded that this correction be made, that this documentary actually return to the archive broadcast RTV Slovenia. It is also interesting that this documentary was also dealt with within a group of journalists, which, on the one hand, I wonder, could also mean an intervention in the autonomy of the author of the documentary by Dr. Valentin Areh. All this happening around the documentary film about JLA shows that unfortunately RTV Slovenia does not always and fully pursue the goals it has in the Statute and the Code of Journalists, as it interferes with the autonomy of authors with obvious pressures, and as we can see also with attempts at censorship. That is why it is right, fellow Members of the Union, to discuss these issues in the National Assembly. And let me express here a protest that we are not with the Minister for Culture, who is responsible for the media field. This is not about any interference with editorial policy, for no reason, but only for explanations, and the Minister of Culture should be present at such a meeting. Of course, a broader view of the whole situation is essential. In the National Assembly we have so far had quite a few discussions on media – we talked about professionalism in the media field, we talked about objective reporting, which should be one of the missions of national television. Even if we look at the analysis of confidence in the media, we can see that confidence in the media in both Slovenia and the world is dropping dramatically. I think that in 1968, for the first time in America, they did research on what confidence in the media was, and then this research showed that confidence in the media was about 73%. So, in 1968, 73%. What about today’s confidence in the media? Approximately 30%. Thus, do not say that we are interfering with editorial autonomy or try to create pressure on the public institution of RTV, which is of particular cultural and national importance. But you also have to wonder how the institution itself works, how the media function, given that there is no more people's confidence in these majority media. And that's why the field of these social networks, twitter and facebook opened up, where things happen that we don't see in daily news shows. Today we have young representatives on the balcony. Maybe they'll sit in the National Assembly sometime. I'd be happy to. And these young representatives are probably a lot on social networks, and there they can actually create themselves a real picture, a real image. They can create a real picture and a real image. If we look only at the media landscape in Slovenia, we can see that there is a media space – but this is not a detection of hot water, we have already said that many times, in fact everyone already knows – too little plurality and most media are left-handed. The Law on RTV Slovenia, the Statute of RTV Slovenia and the Program Standards of RTV Slovenia provide that RTV Slovenia must act in the public interest and must ensure credible and impartial informational broadcasts and content and must fully inform the public of political developments. Is that what's always going on? No, I don't. That is why it is right to note this, and this is no pressure at all. It's not pressure. This is an important co-forming of policies in order to make things better. To warn against inappropriate conduct. I must say that I have been observing this for a long time, and we have been warning this all the time in the Slovenian Democratic Party that, despite clear provisions and also standards, we also observe that these principles and standards are persistently violated by the ethical code of journalists. Let me point out that, for example, RTV Slovenia did not report on hearings at the investigative commission on banking crime and on the bank hole in its information broadcasts. I do not think that she had any news of the hearings themselves on the investigative committee, although this is an extremely important topic and although it is a content that is in the public interest of each and every one of us. For in the rehabilitation of the banking system, we, colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens, have given each individual about EUR 2 000 500. And it's probably not finished here yet. But the daily information programmes did not seem worth reporting on what was happening on this investigative committee. Not to mention the subject that is the essence and essence of the nation. I'm talking about the unresolved common past and the post-war sea. On this subject, RTV reports strongly unilaterally, most often in favour of the left-wing political option, especially now that the presidential elections are approaching, in favour of the President of the State. Those of us who have been truly working in this area for years in the Slovenian Democratic Party do not deserve a sentence in the daily news broadcasts on this very important topic, except when this topic has to be manipulated and abused in favour of the left political option. Therefore, it is also appropriate to draw attention to this session of the National Assembly. And now let me take a quick look at some examples of unbiased and biased reporting, especially in recent times, by RTV Slovenia. First of all, with regard to reporting on the migration crisis and related developments. Let me remind you of the extremely inconsistent use of the words migrants, refugees, economic migrants. But people have now slowly adopted this and realized that not everything needs to be believed by the majority media, but that they can find it themselves online. Then manipulative reporting of RTV Slovenia on the proposal to establish a national guard. Remember, this maneuver of journalists, who said in an RTV contribution that Janša was building her own army, was performed in a highly Huja and unprofessional manner. That's not professionalism. That's not professional. But he obviously meant to manipulate himself, and to create some doubt, he threw some bone into the public, but it wasn't like it was said there. Reporting on contributions to anti-migrant meetings was also manipulative. Here I should like to point out that people who have peacefully gathered at meetings to express their views or views against the arrival of migrants have been referred to as racists, including fascists, as intolerances. A group of people who were actually armed with sticks, in a way, almost for the peacekeepers. Perhaps because the former president of the country, Mr Milan Kučan, and Mrs European Ambassador Tanja Fajon, were present in this group where individuals were wearing sticks. It was false, for example, to report on extreme impatient ideologies in which representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party were to be included. And let's take a look at one of these cases, not long ago, an eclectic case of a violation of the RTV mission. But here I can say that this is an eloquent case of a violation of the RTV mission, which was last but not least Edward Cetnik's report on the American elections. Such biased cheering for one candidate in the reports is difficult to find and, of course, is far from journalistic professionalism. See, RTV Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national interest, which performs public service in the field of radio and television activities. Article 1 of the RTV Act states that public RTV must ensure the democratic, social and cultural needs of citizens and citizens. The fact is that RTV is paid by all electricity customers, and therefore we rightly expect objectivity in reporting. So in his shows he shows events from multiple angles to show them as they really are. But not to create and shape events as politically appropriate to someone. We also expect a wide range of content, of course, because this is also the basic mission of RTV. And since I worked there for quite some time alone, I know that RTV Slovenia not only has excellent authors, programme operators, but actually works a very good program. It's a very good program. However, in the part where it is necessary to note that some things need to change, we cannot be silent. And it's also right to point that out. This is also what I would expect from other Members and Members of Parliament. Of course, we also expect consistent compliance with professional and ethical criteria. This means that journalists, in particular those coming from the information programme, must carry out their work professionally and objectively. This means that they cannot or must not in any way instigate, deceive, or manipulate their contributions. They must therefore be impartial and independent in their work. This impartiality and independence is also a fundamental value in all RTV programmes. This is recorded in their professional criteria that this is their fundamental value. So the facts need to be checked and the truth and justice followed when reporting. They also have this in their professional standards and code of ethics. What I personally expect is that the public institution of RTV will respect its own law. Not again. If we just look at the third, parliamentary, program. It happened several times before that not only were the sessions not only tolerated in the video later on, but they were also not recorded. This has also been the case with the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. And when we asked for an explanation of why the Commission was not even filmed, they said that because a parallel financial committee had been held. Look, sometimes we have more committees in the National Assembly, and at least another committee can go along and cover everything. They're filming everything. So I can take it as if it was political. Someone just decided not to film you. But interestingly, this usually happens to the presidents of commissions and committees coming from the Slovenian Democratic Party. The same has happened to a fellow President of the Defence Committee, Mr Jan Mahnic. They simply did not record a broadcast or a reference to a meeting of the committee. And of course, I think it's best that we draw attention to these things and make it clear. Whenever we open up the area of the public institution of RTV, we face the evidence by the coalition Members that these debates are unnecessary and irrelevant. Personally, I do not think that this is the case and that it is right to look from different angles and perspectives at the functioning of RTV itself. We have dealt with a petition for termination of the RTV contribution on the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, and the petitioners felt that each citizen had the right to decide for himself whether or not to receive the service offered by RTV. I don't want to argue here about whether it's blue or not, about removing the RTV subscription, but it's a good thing we're talking about it. For if we look at some data, you will see, at the annual level, the payment of the RTV contribution for each household comes to 152,40 euros, which in ten years means say, write a thousand 524,40 euros. So it's some amount that households could spend on something else, something more useful. And that's why it's right for us to talk about these issues. Last year, RTV Slovenia, respected colleagues and colleagues, collected €93 million from subscriptions and then €12 million from advertising. But you need to know what conglomerate RTV is. Let me make a quick comparison. Slovakia has 5 and a half million inhabitants. Do you know how many employees there are at the RTV? 300. 300 employees. Then we have Greece, which has about 11 million inhabitants and 600 employees in a public institution. Slovenia knows how many people it has and 2,000 employees. These are the data that shows that we are still right to talk about these content. We have a similar story in court. We also have the highest number of judges there compared to European countries, but the effectiveness of these judges, respected colleagues and colleagues, is significantly lower. Here I ask myself a rhetorical question, we can say something similar about the quality of the program and professional reporting. In short, in this case we are talking about a guaranteed income that others, such as commercial, do not have television. Of course, they don't have the same mission as RTV. We have to be honest here. We public institutions, which are of special national and cultural importance and yet deal with a wide, varied set of content, cannot be compared in any way with any other television, commercial television. Therefore, it is important that RTV is subject to different mechanisms of control precisely because of this, and such a mechanism is also today's meeting of the National Assembly to draw attention, of course. Because all of us who are consumers of electricity are paying for this contribution to RTV and we have the right to demand that the operation of RTV is in accordance with legislation, and in particular with professional and ethical criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I would only – given that you have been very kind, Mrs Eva Irgl, in the expression Trnuljčica, of course I will not argue or comment with you. However, as far as the rules of procedure are concerned, I would like to remind you of what we also discussed at the College of the President of the National Assembly in order not to turn to the balcony or to the people on the balcony, because this is so arranged by the Rules of Procedure. And I'd like to ask you to stick to the rules of procedure. Of course, I've never reacted before, which is why I've only triggered this once at the College, so that we don't have the feeling of young people, that they're out or that I have anything against them, but the rules of procedure don't allow it, I'm sorry. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. This is an agreement that has been in force for 25 years, as far as I know. Dr. Dragan Matic has procedural procedures. Or the controversy?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u90	Dear President, I hope you will ensure so much peace that I can make my procedural proposal. I'm going to get a little bit attached to this Trnuljčica that my colleagues from the SDS were talking about. I suggest that if you have not yet read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this item of the agenda. And I'll read it if you listen to him. »Described in the Constitution, legislation and decisions of the Constitutional Court arising from the principles of the National Assembly and the Government prevent the supervision, evaluation of individual media, journalists and editors and the expression of individual cases. Its key responsibility and duty to the media is to propose and adopt appropriate rules to ensure the programme, organisational and financial autonomy of the public media, especially for the media set up by the State.” That's what law enforcement says. Mr President, I propose that you warn all the debaters that they adhere to the Constitution and the laws and that they do not interfere in their deliberations in such a way as to appoint specific journalists and specific broadcasts. If the lady wants to discuss this, then suggest that she run for the RTV Programme Council, of course, it is combined with a bit of inconvenience that she will have to postpone her term of office, but if she so wishes, I believe she will also follow this passion after criticising the programmes on RTV Slovenia and certain journalists. We have heard specific journalists with names and names, specific broadcasts that are exposed in this way to political pressure, which the Legislative and Legal Service says is unacceptable and should not be carried out in this temple of democracy. So, I suggest you, President, take my procedural proposal seriously into consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Dr Matić, I assume that Mrs Eva Irgl and the other discussers know this document, signed by Mrs Nataša Voršič, Head of the Legislative and Legal Service. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Procedurally, yes. I'd like you to tell me an article of the Rules of Procedure that forbids people on the balcony to say good day. Besides, she didn't even say it, she said she was glad that the young people were on the balcony that might someday occupy our cities. Now, if the three of you can't figure out how you're going to run the National Assembly, I don't know where you're capable of agreeing we can't say good day. It's not going together, Vice President. It's not going together. In addition to what the predecessor said, see where it says we can't talk about names and surnames where it says it, tell me. Law enforcement has its own position, but it's not my position, and you can't convince me not to mention names and surnames. We'll never come here together like this, ever. It makes sense if I sat there and RTV protected me every night and attacked you to think the same thing. Look, I repeat, let's be a little careful about these things. And, Vice President, please, I am aware that the subject is important, and I am also aware that the carriers are sick with us who should have this point, and please try to drive things along in a normal way, and be normal. If someone comes in as a guest in the house, we call it a good day. And I'm still gonna say that, if it's up to you, what do you want to do? You can't make a deal that's not in the rules of procedure. And in some ways you just have to be a little bit realistic about these things and not tell me about independence, about expertise, about ethics, if you're lying! Which, after my turn, I'll also justify. But then they're ethically lying or what? Secretary of State, and we can't do anything. That's not true! I will, and we will keep alerting these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u93	Well, I must say that in the agreement of the leaders of the parliamentary groups in 2012, that is to say, in 2005, 2012 this was summed up only, point 3 clearly states: “Only foreign delegations who are at the official meeting of the National Assembly are welcomed on the balcony.” So that's what it is about these things when you say I have to stick to some lights. Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Janja Sluga, please. Mr. Logar, please. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Look, I've already asked you in the previous procedural procedure that if you can't or can't manage this meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and as the people say, then leave it to someone else, because, as I said, another vice president is here in the Chamber, so that this can be done. But you have now spent five minutes in apologizing for having damaged the opposition's MP, while two Members, one coalition and one opposition, have already swung at one of the members of the opposition when it is not allowed, but you did not say anything, but you even justified it by being able to do it because you did it once. But now you've drawn some insight out of the sky because of some observation that maybe someone sitting on the balcony today will be a member of parliament tomorrow. Look, you run this meeting of the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, as we say, some normal parliamentary practice, and if you've pre-bixed it, don't keep biking it now, well, keep the normal session going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u95	Dr. Dusan Radich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u96	I hope I never will. I'm too old. Just Dushan Radich. Thank you. Mrs Eva Irgle, I'm going to give you a name and a last name, she said a very interesting number earlier. 300 employees. On Czech TV or where did you say? Slovak? I'll tell you about the Czech Republic because I was there, with 9 million inhabitants. On the radio they have a thousand 500 employees in Prague, Czech Radio. The Czech TV, however, has 3,000 employees and makes EUR 253 million per year from subscription and advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u97	Yeah. Is it a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u98	Procedural is to tell me where that number came from. You said Czech. I can hear you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u99	It's a procedural abuse. Procedurally, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u100	Vice President, thank you for your word. And I have a procedural proposal. According to my information, colleagues from the SDS Group are all shareholders of commercial television, which I will say is also a competitive RTV Slovenia, according to my information programme. In this capacity they are now one interest group in the interest of degrade and spittin' out the Radio Television information programme. And I have a procedural proposal to invite them to each of them to make a statement on how many shares of this commercial television can, I'll say, even through this, assess their credibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Of course I won't do that. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much. You did the right thing, I agree, but, dear Mr. Zorčič, I gave the money myself for that television, and you didn't give it to RTV any more than I did, so RTV has to be impartial. Unbiased. And don't talk nonsense. You don't care about my money and my colleagues' money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u103	Good. Thank you very much. Dr. Runczek, please. Procedural? Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I came here to discuss, as far as I know, in procedural proceedings, we are addressing the President. [[…]] I do that even when I'm partially abusing procedure. That's why it's my procedural suggestion that you stop making a fool out of the temple of democracy, as you like to say, and from the procedureal. After all, the SDS also had the opportunity to propose to the Vice-President or Vice-President of the National Assembly, but it is not. We could, however, be an example of a long-standing democratic tradition that is being applied in this country. So please stick to the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Well, because this event over the last few minutes says a lot about the topic that is on the agenda today at this point. Obviously, the content has run out and everything else needs to be talked about, just not what we have on the table. Which, in fact, we should not have on the table in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. A colleague has now talked about some discomfort of the coalition, dealing with such topics and how the coalition says that discussions are unnecessary and irrelevant. I didn't hear any coalition MP say anything like that. But we said what the Legislative and Legal Service said in its opinion. However, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that we are responsible for a comprehensive and general discussion on this issue, on the media, on the media landscape and so on. And also on the issue of media autonomy, especially in terms of conditions and measures that could strengthen such a situation. That's what law enforcement says. It also says that this assumption must also give rise to conclusions that would be adopted either by the Committee or by the National Assembly. Of course not. If we look at the recommendation that the applicant has written here, he says: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government to monitor the situation at the public institute of RTV Slovenia," and so on and so on. Of course, the government, as we have already established, is not responsible for such things. This is what the proposalr knows very well, because there is a Member in their ranks who has even written this law. The Government shall be competent to appoint certain members to the Board of the Institution and to amend up to a maximum of 10 % of the amount of RTV contribution if there are economic reasons for this. This is what the government is responsible for, and for nothing else. The government said in its opinion that the Government does not have a mechanism to influence RTV Slovenia's programming policy, and I also strongly hope that it does not really have one and must not have one, nor should the National Assembly, because it is not your television that we talked about before, and in which you have a decisive influence. In this light, as I have just stated, excuses have come to the committee. An apology was made by the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, which is a very interesting excuse to say that they believe that the adoption of such a recommendation in the National Assembly would constitute a dangerous precedent in the European scale and a direct threat to freedom of speech in Slovenia. Journalists must respect the legislation in force, the Slovenian Journalists Code and other professional and ethical criteria, but the Government cannot be responsible for determining possible violations in the democratic state. What you want. On this committee, colleague Irgle, the invited were very explicit about what was happening with regard to the documentary film you were having a problem with. Why was that? Before this committee, we have also received a written explanation of all the developments, and I must say that we Members of the coalition have been satisfied with this written explanation. It was also said that this issue has already been addressed in the Programme Council, on the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. This subject has even been referred to by the Commission for Information Programmes. Only on this subject. Although they have found that the authors have regulated copyrights by themselves so far, they have now been rehabilitated, and that is no longer the case. As it is said, I think the debate in the direction that you are leading it now is unacceptable. I know that you and your friend Grims share the enthusiasm of JLA and all those events, and we could, of course, distribute this topic for long and wide hours and hours, but it's certainly not a topic, even here you can see from the explanation. You're proposing one thing, in explanation you're referring to completely different things, and it seems personally unacceptable to me. These pressures line up and line up already throughout this entire mandate in such and different ways. As I said on the committee, you're extremely innovative, full of ideas, a little different every time. Of course, the purpose is always the same. Unauthorized pressure on the public house RTV. Of course, Members of the coalition will not be involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am." [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Franz Breznik, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u108	Mr Vice-President, I will not warn you that this meeting and this debate of the coalition are not going in any direction at the moment. They keep telling us, all of this side, that we have no argument to open up some subjects. Look, these people have no arguments and no arguments, except that they're charging. First of all, I would warn you if you could tell them if they're divorcing at least what the Czech Republic is and what Slovakia is. Secondly, I would ask you to tell them what is the public TV RTV, which every poor person in Slovenia, who is sometimes hungry, has to pay 12 euros to watch it at all, and even a number of people in Slovenia have been employed because of the contribution of RTV, where almost 2 000 300 people, who go to markets and to cosmetics in the morning, know. And the second is commercial television, which beats the crap out of itself. I'm a proud shareholder in Nova24TV, and I bought five shares, just like a whole bunch of people bought to open up the darkness. And once again, I warn you to tell the coalition MPs, at least some of them, I will not throw everyone in the same basket, to at least open the books a little bit and read what public TV RTV is and what commercial televisions are, of which everyone decides. So please, if you don't open up to this and get back to the point and start seriously discussing what your arguments are. And because of what Jože Smole said, because journalists have to be sociopolitical workers, this has been said to be public, especially for RTV, back in 1990, before the takeover of power. That's why we're so much more careful. Every time there's a subject about the former system, there's some problems with copyright. Just as Kekić once told on television publicly that Mr Rotar had asked him to find some evidence and to be falsely witnessed by Croatian performers against Janez Janša. Suddenly, 11 seconds of this RTV 3 contribution were cut out. That is why we are so much more attentive and people are warning us and asking us to be careful that there is still censorship on RTV Slovenia. Therefore, I ask the President to warn colleagues that they should return to the essence and that they should issue censorship, what we have tabled, what we want to discuss today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u109	This is more or less likely to be an abuse of procedure this time, I suppose, given what I've been informed of. The word is given by Mrs Marija Bachič, to prepare Dr. Franc Trček and Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We have been living in democracy for 25 years, and today in this temple of democracy we are considering the recommendation of the SDS party, how to politically discipline the media, is almost unacceptable. But in my debate, I will touch and somehow explain what has actually happened with regard to when the dossier was withdrawn: JLA, it has happened, as the Director of Radiotelevision Slovenia and also the President of the Programme Council have said on the Committee on Culture. So let me quote Mr. Director, Mr. Filley: "The show was withdrawn as much as our colleagues needed to publish the correct version online, because the online version was the wrong version. The difference was within a minute of the program, in a minute of recordings for which we really do not have permission to publish or use. These videos were not published on television, but the wrong version, which was withdrawn, was published online and the correct version was published. The real version was then available online all the time, and you can still watch it today. So in no case has there been any withdrawal, censorship or anything else. True, the new version has been published on the second link as the first version, but anyone who knows anything about computer science can know that when you publish a video or store it on a server, there is a connection. It is possible, of course, to save the video on the same link, but they put it on a new link. As a result, someone who clicked on the first lobe was no longer able to find it and could not watch it. But it was enough time for this to happen, that all those interested in finding on RTV Slovenia again a bone that is now being eaten, made and caused this affair." And continues: “The author had all the freedom to create this documentary, which, of course, everyone can think about what they want. There were many reactions that praised this documentary, and there were many reactions that criticised this documentary. So the responses were different. The author himself said that there was no influence, no pressure, that no one asked him to change anything in this documentary. And perhaps it would be necessary for someone to ask him for anything at that time. But it's just an editorial judgment and an editorial decision. He did not change anything; he published it as he intended to publish it, except in the work where he was warned from the professional services in the archive that the author or descendants would not allow it to be used for part of the recordings. And he cut this part out and then published the entire rest of the documentary film as he had imagined.” End of quote. The President of the Programme Council, Mr Zupanič, said, quote: "If we are very precise, we should talk about the archive film, because this film was practically all composed of archival recordings. This is not insignificant information, because of course the material is archival. Ensuring copyright for such a character of film is one purely specific task. You just film it in a documentary, and they usually controlled copyright. But when this is done from some broader documentation, of course the issue of copyright becomes very important. And because this was not arranged as it should have been, there was a complication because he did not have permission of his own to publish." End of quote. So much for the explanation, because some people don't really know what's going on. I reiterate that the usurpation of the public has been announced by the Slovenian Democratic Party with constant flat-rate and non-real estimates of alleged censorship and the resulting attacks on journalistic autonomy contrary to constitutional regulation. On the basis of this, media freedom is defined as one of the key institutional conditions for the effectiveness of the democratic process. In the 2004 decision, the Constitutional Court stressed that freedom of the media means that they are independent of any state or other control and that no censorship is allowed from outside. Especially those forms of censorship imposed by individual political parties. The Constitutional Court has pointed out, however, that the policy has its tasks in this area, namely to ensure the programmatic, organisational and financial independence of the public media through appropriate legislation. And here's the first contradiction in which the proposer sets up. The radiotelevision of Slovenia operates under the law created in the office of the Member of the Social Democratic Party. As a second contradiction, however, we see the material where the applicant in the material for the session questions the discussion on the editorial documentary on RTV and assesses that any treatment of the resulting documentary within the assets of journalists may constitute an intervention in the journalist's journalistic autonomy. Unfortunately for himself, he uses a different vat, taking the right to assess the work of journalists and editors, indicating what such a case means at a meeting of the National Assembly. Nothing but an attempt to censor the public media from outside a political group, and this is unacceptable and unacceptable for a democratic country. I do not think that the political body should deal with this in any way, but of course the aim of the applicant, who has a whole range of interventions in RTV Slovenia, is already achieved with the debate itself. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u111	The word is from Dr. Mr. Sasa Tabaković and Mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, chairman. I heard this from the office, I hope to say, almost no debate, I thought I wouldn't even come forward because I'm preparing for tomorrow's meeting of an important committee, but let's ask ourselves what the mission and the task of RTV is. I'd go back to Kant and say public use of my mind. Who doesn't have these terms, and these concepts are known to read the last Saturday annex and interview with Dr. Dollar, will get a little light. Just because we come to Parliament doesn't mean we stop reading. As my colleague Matthew said in his position, of course we could say a lot about RTV. Look, I can tell in my case, I think the third programme is quite exemplary in carrying out its mission, the politicians will always be partially dissatisfied with the journalists, one of the two politicians with the longest internship was sometimes a journalist, and I could also say something about it. In my case – you know I don't watch television – they tell me that they often put me in some funny rubble and they rip me out of the concept and someone would think, yes, this Duck is just here afne runt. But, of course, I'm not going to say that he's going on the third program of opportunistic journalism performed by prostitutes. You know, this is a quote from a gentleman who is with our colleague of the Italian National Community, a gentleman who has been elected most frequently, who has been in the composition of this temple of democracy for the longest time, and without whom, according to the Constitutional Court, even parliamentary democracy is crowned here. What is lacking in the public use of the mind in this byte? Autoreflex. Autoreflex. I went to ask older experts and experts, let the law on RTV be named after someone. It's called, and I'm not gonna point and point now. Of course, because someone wanted to re-usurpate the public service into state television, and anyone who comes into power wants to do so in this country, unfortunately. Our task is also to prevent this from happening with appropriate legislation, but you know. Because of the censorship that my colleague was talking about, there is also a self-censorship, which is often even worse in the actual lack of public use of the mind, both on RTV and elsewhere. And that seems to me to be some key issue, not some beating on one, the other, or the third. It seems to me that we need to give the public office the opportunity to make journalists do their own thing, to set the framework for these so-called self-censorships to be as few as possible. Because I can tell if something's right on RTV, it's a documentary program. Even if I don't personally agree with some interpretation of history there, then after all, we want democracy and that's how we live it. In short, let us begin to create in this house a public use of the mind with a much larger, thrown-out spoon of autoreflexion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u113	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Get ready, mags. Branislav Rajić and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u114	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues! To begin with, I would also like to look at the formulation and idea of the decision that requires the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to monitor more actively the substantive developments on public RTV, although the law makes it very clear what the powers of the Government and what State Assembly are to public RTV. In particular, I am circumcised because, as mentioned earlier today, the law was written on the initiative of the SDS and a fellow Member of the SDS, which is why this recommendation is so much more incomprehensible, I think. However, if, of course, the applicant considers, in view of today's presentation of the position that the legal basis for the operation of RTV is not appropriate at this time, he is, of course, legitimately entitled to initiate a legislative procedure accordingly. However, for the time being, the Government does not have any direct powers; it has direct powers over the work of the National Assembly, i.e. the Committee on Culture, but exclusively for financial operations and not for the definition of programme or programme content. And despite the fact that we are all Members aware of each other, I believe that even the proposer of what our legal powers are, in this reference to the National Assembly, we have, in fact, talked or addressed the work of public RTV several times or so, even though the Constitutional Court's decisions are based on principles that prevent the Government, as well as the National Assembly, from monitoring and assessing the content of the journalist's work and regulation. When we talk about this, we need to look at a broader context and, in this broader context, we need to be aware that public RTV, of course, plays an irreplaceable role in contributing to information and education. This means that through some educational and informational content, of course, it takes on an educational role and a role that is, in fact, beyond the content provided by commercial television or commercial media. This means that when we talk about public RTV, we are really talking about public service and public interest, which, of course, is vital to the development of a democratic society, because it actually directly addresses citizens with its quality and accessibility of information. And, of course, freedom of expression, freedom and independence of the media are certainly those planes which justify this function of public service, public interest, public good, of course. In this context, therefore, it is extremely important when someone decides to launch public debates, including political controversy, if you want, on censorship on public RTV. Such a debate is very difficult. Such accusations are very serious. These are difficult words for development, including for the development and understanding of the democratic structure of our society, and those who are also used in their debate, when this controversy opens up, have to be more concretely excused and justified. You know, we can't talk about allegations when we talk about censorship. We can't talk about what we think at some point. I think that such a discourse or such a public debate is unacceptable and that in the National Assembly, in their discourse, we should simply not agree to some irresponsibility of debate and, as a result, the lack of unrest within both the journalistic and other public groups. What are we talking about today when we are actually talking about censorship? The proposal for a reference to the debate was based, as the applicant has already said, on a documentary by Mr Areh, whose documentary work is intended to be put in the archives by someone by works or arbitration, and this person, who even the applicant does not know how to define, is expected to exert pressure on the author himself because of politics or some ideological belief. And, of course, as a result, his creative autonomy. But given that the author himself declared after the verification, even at the RTV Programme Council meeting, which referred to the topic, that no one exerted any pressure on him, and that he also complicated the copyrights resulting from the so-called messy archiving, he also did not understand as censorship. And then I wonder, in fact, if the author himself, on whom the motioner then refers in this reference to the debate, explicitly says that no pressure has been exerted on him, then I wonder which seemingly windmills are being fought in some way in the SDS Group. To avoid any confusion, of course, I, as a Member, respect the liberal postulates and do not intend to block any public debate, but it would be good if Members were aware of the responsibility we have in directing the public discourse and of what topics we are really giving our attention and priorities to. This is especially true when there are themes on the pranger that are not based on some real foundations. In this case, too, at a time when RTV elects a new Director-General. So that I will not and cannot not support the proposal of the proposer from one of my own cultural, political and personal political activities. At the end of the day, however, I would like to allow myself some comment on the complications that took place at the beginning of this agenda item, where there was controversy about the views themselves. I would simply point out that, of course, the Rules of Procedure do not specify what the Member may or may not say. And if the SDS Group advocates a substantive debate, I, of course, can only attach myself to this as a Member. However, I hope and I wish that we had this in mind even when one of the fellow Members of their own kind is discussing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u115	The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u116	Hello, everyone who sincerely opposes censorship! This debate was overturned at one time in the wake of non-bullying procedural proposals, but because the initiative of the opposition to move to arguments The only argument that is considered here is that the problem with temporary withdrawal is simply that Slovenia's documentation and archives are burdened with a lot of material that is not regulated by copyright. [[…]] Thus, the temporary withdrawal of the broadcast from the online accessible archive took place only because it took time to regulate these copyrights for the partially used material. And that's all. We have already identified the cultural initiative as unfounded at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, because the author of the incriminated broadcasts in his letters addressed to Radiotelevision of Slovenia did not mention pressure or censorship, nor the possibility that this could be the case. It's hard to talk about censorship on Radiotelevision. First of all, society like ours today has done a lot of censorship. Experiences from the past have created a predominant sensitivity to the topic of censorship in modern generations, and it is very unlikely that censorship as a present regulator of social consciousness would revive, at least as long as we have the current government. However, if there were an establishment with which an option could be put in place to trigger today's debate, in this case, and in view of the time of their once brief rule, it was to be asked whether censorship would be regained not only by wings but also by beaks and claws. I would also like to point out that today on RTV not only is there no censorship, but occasionally there is no verification of the facts before these facts are reported to the public. A talkative example is an interview with a self-proclaimed expert who is presented to the audience as a historian without any scientific education and without evidence of documentary record. Then, in prime time, at 20 p.m., an hour in a loose chat with an openly ideological right-wing journalist, he preached the changed truths and shot ideological bullets. In this case, at least a formal check would be necessary, if we don't call it censorship, but it didn't happen. Who's gonna go into surgery with a brain surgeon whose credibility hasn't been confirmed and checked the correct instance? And on public RTV, they serve you without checking with a historian. And it can also damage the software of a few brains with its own opinions. How far does Parliament's supervisory right go? Certainly not so far as to interfere with the clear system of editorial policy of the largest public institution in the field of culture in our country. And certainly not so far away that the 90 Members should meet at a meeting of the National Assembly every time colleagues from the SDS do something in their noses and see the opportunity for their purpose, and not for the integral purposes of this society, to abuse the media space in particular. Censorship means a restriction on freedom of expression, and censorship is unacceptable to a free and open society. But the event that the initiator is referring to is not the result of censorship, it is clear to all that only a unilateral desire to confuse people is stronger than a perception of the reality. However, there is an objective risk that those people overlook your purpose and resent it very much. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also assesses that what the proposer calls for is not within the power of the Government at all. There are other bodies, the Information Programmes Commission, the Watcher's Ombudsman, the RTV Program Council, not least. So there is a set of mechanisms that address cases of non-compliance with standards or obligations enshrined in the RTV Slovenia Act. I would not repeat the thesis of the unnecessaryness of this debate. It is our job to discuss all the themes of the widest dimension. However, when it comes to forced debate on the issue of censorship at the public institute of RTV Slovenia, I cannot help but think that it has been encouraged only with the aim of addressing its supporters. And there's something about censorship going hand in hand with dictatorship. And in the instigator's explanation, it's not very difficult to feel a bit of sentiment. It's like they're suing them after they ran the government when they had the opportunity to be a praetor, censor, dictator and executioner. The vast majority of the Slovenian public remembers them and does not want them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u117	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and Dr Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much, President. Of course, the debate on such a topic proposed by the proponents can be interesting for a small proportion of people who do not actually know the legislation and the authorities, how they function both in the National Assembly and in the country, or in this case when we talk about public television, Radio Television. Therefore, it would be very nice and, on the one hand, a kind of obligation within the Rules of Procedure if we wanted to have a serious discussion on this subject, in order to take the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia first of all, which discusses why this institution is established, what powers it has, and, above all, what tasks and mission, how it consists of, what bodies are, so that we can talk about this topic. At the same time, of course, we should also read the Media Act very carefully, which also discusses this and sets out the rights, obligations and responsibilities of legal and natural persons, and in particular determines the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of the media. In such discussions, it is very nice to read the Opinion on the Proposal for a Recommendation to ensure the independent and impartial functioning of RTV Slovenia and, of course, to process and, in essence, to debate very precisely, this has been repeated, but to read what the applicant is actually proposing. Here we talk about censorship, as if in 1965, when censorship was actually a established practice, as if it were something universally acceptable, even socially, and that we have one political party or not a political party at all, because there were no parties at all at the time, but we had a social political organisation that decided what I did and what I didn't have to go to the bunker. And there was a special room where they looked at the shows first and decided whether it was appropriate to play or not. Of course, the intention and intent of the proposer is very clear, to create constant unrest and some incoherence, because one golden rule applies: when you repeat a lie at least ten times, at least 10, 15, 20% of the people are convinced that something has happened. Especially if this controversy and these statements are also happening on public television, because people watch and take it as sacredly serious when someone hears something and, of course, is particularly clever. I must say that in the National Assembly, not in this mandate, but practically in all mandates, by giving the mandate in fact, the brakes are falling or, I will say, some kind of self-restraint, where we can go. And I'm sure there's really no limit at all. In fact, according to a public institution founded by the Republic of Slovenia or the Government, it is in a strange way that after it, after the institution we are the founder, we beat as if we are not actually the founder of this institution. By writing very clearly in the law, of course, precisely so that this will not happen, precisely so that there will be no censorship, to where and when and how someone can interfere in the discussion. I used to listen in the debate when someone said yes to God and to the devil and when we would talk if not here in the National Assembly. And no one can actually take this right away from us, but if, of course, he even mentions it and says, "They lie to us, we really need to respond to it." You know, one thing is, if someone is making a big deal out of viewers, they tell the relevant authorities, including the Programme Council or the RTV Slovenia leadership, and the other, when they start interpreting politics, is a policy that adopts legislation and even has scissors and canvas in its hand so that something can change. And the proposer is certainly qualified to be placed in this position of this status. In fact, it is unacceptable, it is really unacceptable, and in fact it has become untasteful that we have to respond in some way to one and the same allegations, what is actually going on in RTV Slovenia. I have to say it myself, and I have repeatedly said that there are many things I am not satisfied with about public television. However, this does not mean that I have the right to create an imaginary family as a member of the Republic of Slovenia, but above all to take the responsibility to act and even take decisions that are illegal. That's why I also said at the outset that it would be very nice if you read at least the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service. It is true what one of the panellists said, that is the opinion, that is the proposal or position, whether we respect it or not, but of course it is our business. However, if this is so that this position is not taken into account, why do we have a legal and legal service? It is in order to warn us about all this entourage that we have most of the time or that we have Members, that we would very much like to step forward and explain our own legislation. It just doesn't work that way. Let's just remember – I have to say that I have followed Twitter very much this morning, to see if there will be any spiritual message leader in which Members have to discuss in today's debate; well, I haven't seen it, but actually, because they don't need to, because they actually have received these messages more times – when, I think, for a few years now, TV Reflections have got a new studio and the spiritual leader has come to this studio and, of course, he has made it very clear that they have too much money. And then, of course, the pogrom started, it started out about how the subscription actually needed to be reduced, and soon afterwards it happened and the subscription decreased. And that's what he's most afraid of. This is most feared because someone does not like something and, of course, then through the position of power of politics and of course the lever of some majority that he has, it also applies and in some ways punishes them, because public television does not suit him or does not report it as it thinks it is right. I must say, I am extremely unhappy from the moment the National Assembly adopted that we have a third, parliamentary, programme. Many in the world have transfers, but not in the way we have them here in our country. The European Union has continuous transmissions, but it has them on the Internet, no special channel, no television can tolerate the European Parliament's meeting, not in the way anyone wants it. We all know why the 3rd, parliamentary, programme was created, but, look at the fraction, when the 3rd, parliamentary, programme, because the opposition at the time wanted it, they don't like it anymore. Of course, they went on their own idea, initiative and free economic initiative to set up their own television. And in fact, I'm actually kind of happy and pleased that they've come to their television because I can watch today how they imagine television and how television should actually be reported. I am very happy that we have a comparison today, and in principle I do not like watching commercial television, because commercial television offers only two things – extreme entertainment in the form of film and entertainment-music shows and an information program, which, of course, must be not a good news in principle, is for publication, but in principle bad news is good news. I personally miss the media very much to have an information programme in at least one segment in the right sense of the word informative. I guess she's keeping me posted on something. This does not mean, of course, that it must not comment, nor does it mean that it must not have an opinion, but one of the reasons why I do not watch commercial television is because they simply comment. And they don't give viewers the opportunity to create their own opinions. Public television, thank God it still has. And in a pretty good way, and not least through his shows, I'll say, he makes a huge contribution. The second thing that seems important to me is that the National Assembly conducts a procedure every four years for the appointment of its representatives in the Programme Council. Now I don't know why we have the Program Council, but if we keep discussing in the National Assembly what censorship is, whether this TV is even okay, or whether the program is okay, in short, I just don't understand one thing anymore. Then let's change the law and say the Program Committee is the National Assembly. Moreover, let us just set up one special committee or commission and it would be very nice if such a committee were to lead either the Grims or colleague Eva Irgle, because then we would have a really fantastic story. Look, that's exactly why I believe that even when you were the founders of the marriage, you didn't see it coming. Because you knew that this would be absurd in the media field, at least in the context of democratic countries that do not know it. That is why we have the Programme Committee to respond appropriately. As far as we all know here, whether you like it or not, the Programme Committee performs its task and, regardless of who leads it, simply gives its views and, of course, in this sense of the mission, whatever it is and it is established by law, it also carries out. The following is also important. The public service Radiotelevision Slovenia is in fact the only medium that actually does everything that is not commercial or other media – your media does not do it at all – mainly performs that mission that satisfies those stakeholders who are repeatedly neglected and do not have any serious support in a commercial sense. You yourself have said in your views at the outset, and you have discussed that this is a special institution with a special mission, which has a social public interest in cultural, educational and God knows which other fine sayings you have given to this institution. But at the same time, you don't actually admit it to her. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I? You just don't admit it to her. Of course, you have read the law, of course you have read the law, but the fact is you have to admit that it is the only television that does its mission within the framework of the law. I know you don't like it, I know you can't deal with it, but because of the viewers watching this unfortunate debate about television, you have to make it clear that if there is anywhere, then this task that she's carrying out, she needs to be acknowledged. Do we like individual details? Excuse me, but here is what is very important – that the program is designed by journalists. But if we get involved here, and not only are we talking about an information programme, I am talking about all the programming content that this institution naturally defines, then of course we have a serious problem, because then we are not just a software world anymore, but we are already a public institution of Radiotelevision Slovenia. I still feel like we're in the National Assembly and we didn't mix this story up. At the same time, we would like, of course, not to be politically incapacitated, we would like to avoid political interference, but, in fact, we would like to be tried. And that seems to have just grown to your heart. Every time, every time they make a mistake and the Program Council even finds out and proposes certain solutions to how to regulate certain technical or procedural matters, so that they can improve in order not to make mistakes, you of course turn that error into a political problem. But since we're already on this unfortunate show, which is so much talk, I have to say, I went to see it. Last but not least because I was alone in this same army, and like most, at least since my year up, I put it through. I have to say, I wasn't a criminal, considering it's mentioned that it was a criminal organization. Because then we were all criminals, or how; but I don't know what we were doing. And that is why I find it unbelievably unworthy that someone makes certain claims about such a show, which, of course, somehow do not have some real basis. Far from wanting to be a lawyer for the Yugoslav People's Army. Absolutely not. Less or less anyone else's lawyer. In fact, I am convinced that there are some other institutions and also time for some serious in-depth analysis, with some true approach, which, of course, will also give certain judgments and, of course, the values of what this was all about. The fact is, we were in another sociopolitical organisation in this country. Certainly this organization at that time, for those conditions, if we compare it with today, is, of course, far from being able to talk about any democracy. No, it wasn't. I have also personally read the answers given by the Programme Council or representatives of Radiotelevision, and I believe that they have settled this issue and that they will continue to pay more attention to when and in what way it is served. To what you, of course, call censorship today. But I am deeply convinced, and I believe that there is no censorship on Radiotelevision, public television. Because the moment I agree to this discourse and what you are reading, of course, within the debate itself, I can say that then it would be at least what it is, what it should be done. But I am sure that the Program Council or the Governing Body will inform us of this because it is also a matter of doing so if ever. Whether or not we're discussing television. I think we've discussed this too much in the National Assembly. But of course, there will always be criticism on the other hand that there is always too little. However, I will be very happy if you ever come up with a proposal for a new law and we will talk about substantive things, how to improve the functioning of this institution alone, and that will, of course, open up a field of different debates. Last but not least, we are waiting for a law on the media that will bring an in-depth debate, and then we will probably also meet with this material in the National Assembly. And then it's a good time for me to even talk about a lot of things that you say we have to keep talking about. As long as we have such baseless claims, of course, I have no choice but to find out that it is simply a game of yours called while the toy is hot, keep it, because when you get tired, you have to choose another toy. So I'm already waiting for what's next, probably next week, when you're making some new proposal for a new debate on an ideological issue, because that's all you're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u119	Mr Igor Zorčič and Mrs Jelka Godec have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you, President. When I listen to this debate, this dramatic indignation of my predecessors, I wonder if they have even read the material prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and if we are even talking about the same proposal for a decision. Look, we've heard about how this debate is an unacceptable intervention in journalistic independence, in their work, in, I don't know, national RTV and so on. At least so that audiences and viewers have uninterrupted information, I will read this decision proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party: "The National Assembly recommends to the Government to monitor the state of the RTVS public institution regarding censorship and journalistic autonomy." My dears, not that the Government exerts pressure or evaluates the work of RTV, but to monitor the state of censorship and journalistic autonomy in accordance with the objectives, purpose and so on of the RTV Act, and to take all necessary measures under its responsibility. So it's out of the jurisdiction laid down by the law. And that it responds to all the censoring evidence. And this is an unacceptable intervention in the independence of journalists for the ruling coalition. So, cautioning on the evidence of censorship or monitoring of censorship is, I don't know, an unacceptable intervention by a coalition colleague in journalistic independence. Further, you are also reading poorly what the Law-Legal Service says. Earlier, a fellow Servant had said that, or the Legal and Legislative Service had said that this proposal was illegal. Find me this sentence in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. He's not here. The legislative and legal service only said that the recommendation could not produce legal effects because it was a political act and the power to draw from the authority of the National Assembly. So it can't create any effects of repression at all, as you read this proposal. And when the fellow Servant was so sensitive to the pressures on media independence – see, last time on the Foreign Policy Committee, the Foreign Minister choked on writing to the media, and said that the media were creating, I don't know, friction within blah, blah, blah, that was the assessment of the work of the media by the government's representative, the executive branch of the government, and Mrs. Slug didn't get upset or said anything in her tenderness, see, now you've reached out to the independence of the media. However, when it is proposed that the state of the public service should only be monitored with regard to the censoring evidence, fire is in the roof. It's all wrong. The entire cavalry has become involved and has begun to talk about how the Slovenian Democratic Party is defiling journalistic independence. But this item on the agenda has its own reason, and I think that we should all be about uniform views in this regard. Look, there's been political pressure here. If you have been monitoring developments on RTV in connection with this previously mentioned documentary on JLA and other matters, you could not miss this, let's say that the assets of the journalists of Television Slovenia have sent a protest to the leadership of Television and the RTV Program Council, but here we are now facing this political pressure, there are members who are called by the politics called the coalition majority, what is the importance of the composition of the programming world, a testimony that you have scrupulously resisted that there is some political plurality in this world, but you have overpowered all the desires or proposals of the opposition and you have firmly brought your members into this world. When the matter came to the programming board, it became essentially political. So the debate on alleged censorship has become political. And so it's allowed because your people are sitting there and you probably don't hear any different opinions than you think. Here in the National Assembly, where the plural composition is based on the electoral result – is this direct pressure on the independence of reporting or how? If you have read this letter to your program advisors about the events on RTV, you can see that on a unilateral text, a newsgroup, in the form of a protest, accounts for the assets of journalists at 3,000 employees on RTV with one of them – with Dr. Valentin Areh. He's got a whole paragraph. Journalist collective to political leaders in the program world about Valentin Areh writes: "It is too often that in the Reflections, when regulated by Valentin Areh, we watch stolen footage from foreign documentary and information shows. In addition, the content of several of these contributions is hustling, misleading, as Valentin Areh has often used several years of old recordings and presented them as current. This all points to great deviations from professionalism, and thus the light throws at all the colleagues of this program. In the archive of the information programme we are committed to professional standards and ethical imperatives, including the rights enshrined in the Constitution, and we also demonstrate this through our copyright work." See, if this is not mudslide, journalistic colleagues, a colleague who made a documentary, which has been quite written down in Slovenian or the last product produced by RTV, has been quite shaken by the public. If this is then sent to political leaders in the programming world or to elected ruling coalitions in the programming world, then I believe that we can talk about it. Look at this next. This letter comes to the programming world five days before that documentary was published. The documentary was then published and, you won't believe it, a day or two after that comes the bitter letter of viewer RTV Špele Furlan. Now for those of you who do not know who the viewer is Špela Furlan, the right hand of the former President of the Republic of Slovenia. And this one writes that its purpose is not to carry out a comprehensive analysis of the documentary, after all, there are enough journalists in RTV newsgroups who can do it more professionally. Look, Mrs Milenkovic did this five days earlier in a letter she sent to the programming world, exactly as she had obviously read the thoughts of viewer Špela Furlan, and she did it on her own to colleagues and other members of the programming world. Then he writes, "historical research also requires disclosure and analysis of resources and documents, which are not... I hope that the world of RTV will be able to provide a different practice in the future." So I hope that the RTV Council, which you, the ruling coalition, will be able to provide a different practice in the future. If I go back to the programming board now. Today, there is one very interesting article in the Fire Report regarding the appointment of the new director of RTV at a closed meeting. See what he wrote about the composition of the Programme Council: "...because at present the composition of the Programme Council is such that the political left almost completely controls the Programme Council". So if viewer Špela Furlan believes that the world of RTV will in the future ensure that such documentary will no longer be published on RTV, this is probably because he knows that the composition of the program marriage is such that the left almost completely controls the program world. And what is this other than political pressure? While they're dealing with some journalist inside the collective, and they're sending this to program councilmen, to other journalists, and they're not sending this protest to whoever they're charging with. This letter was received by 51 journalists, program advisors and RTV leadership, but was not received by Dr. Valentin Areh. What is other than political accounting within the RTV programming house? However, it is in line with the RTV Act, the first paragraph of Article 1, the duty of the Republic of Slovenia as the founder to ensure autonomy and editorial independence. So it is our job to discuss when a breach occurs or when there is some clear evidence of censorship and political pressure. I find it difficult to accept that Members of the coalition majority here just immediately shake the arguments out of their hands for their right, without being checked. If, Mr. Areh, he didn't complain, he said everything was fine and so on. See, today is information one click away, one click. You don't have to be special geniuses if you're looking through websites. Go to the Ombudsman's report, Mr Ambrožič is now gone, now there is a new selection of staff, and see the December report. In the December report, you will be able to read Dr. Valentin Areh's reply, which has been published publicly on this alleged censorship complication. And I'll read it to you because you didn't do that click before you discussed it here at the National Assembly. In fact, Dr. Areh says: “The viewer has the right to her interpretation, but in proving my alleged inaccuracies in the film she gave a number of wrong data without mentioning the resources and even the phrases she said she had heard in the film, but they are not there at all.” Next: “The whole film is offensively marked as a pamphlet, which, according to the SSKJ, means a film to embarrass certain individuals who were in power at the time.” Attention, my colleagues at the BBC explained to me that such accusations are usually received by journalists in totalitarian countries. Next: “It seems unacceptable to me that the programme world is now discussing direct works, authorism, journalists and their journalistic work, contrary to past practice. Such practices are surprised by my colleagues from distinguished foreign public television: the BBC, the ZDF, the ORF, who do not know such behaviour, and they understand this as I do: as political pressure directly on journalists or editors.” Mr Tabaković, where is he now when he says Areh that he was not pressured by any censorship and so on. Mr Matić, when you said in the introduction that Mr Areh had not complained, he wrote to the Ombudsman. And let me just say, this documentary, which some call an unfortunate show, received 151 praises from its author and only 17 critics from the Ombudsman. This documentary was screened on the first night by 162 thousand viewers, a repetition in two days by 68 thousand viewers and over 10,000 online. This show has had over a quarter of a million views. Let me just say, let's say the average echoes have about 130,000 views. In short, it is probably not an unfortunate show, but it is a real show that has achieved its purpose, and it is probably the most painful coalition to be so dismayed at the debate, obviously having political pressures or having those who have made the show received these pressures. If I return to this letter of assets of journalists of the information programme of Television Slovenije, which later distanced itself from this letter, it is obvious that there is a scandal that someone can send a pamphlet on behalf of the assets of journalists, which then attacks one of his colleagues. However, I will read this in the last paragraph, where it says that with some unprofessional work, this house is going on a dangerous path, perhaps the path of its own termination. Calls for a boycott of payment of the RTV subscription is being accumulated from all sides – now pay attention, “because the viewers have apparently found that the TV programme offered is somehow and does not meet the public interest”. Now, tell me if the president or a member of the press asset itself says that the viewers have apparently found that the TV programme offered is somehow quality, does not show public interest or should not all the alarms in our heads, which we are responsible for, that the public agency is doing well, to discuss the subject. Not that you're trying to close this debate. This documentary, which had such ratings, is the best answer for national television to provide an interesting program that will have enough viewers. Opposing this is precisely what I now think a former member of the assets of journalists or the executive board of press assets will record in this pamphlet. Therefore, once again, the purpose of this debate is simply to discuss warnings, the alleged censorship on national television. Any denial of such a debate or denial of such a debate means that some wish to withdraw the word on censorship on public television from the agenda. You do this in such a way that you accuse the applicant of wanting to censor national television. If this isn't over! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u121	Replica, Dr. Sasha Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you. That it will not be misunderstood what I have already said in my debate, that I do not intend to deny or in any way restrict the debate itself, I think I have been very precise in this implementation. When I was talking about precision, I'd like to replicate here to Mr. Logar. Mr. Arih defined himself in his letter to the viewer’s letter and also in the session itself, when, say, this thing, so-called, was already cooked when it was discussed. However, Mr Areh made it very clear that at the time he was making this documentary, he was not experiencing any political pressure and in the same way of archiving there was no censorship. When we discuss it, let us be precise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u123	Now Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u124	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear fellows and fellows! I think that the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which we are considering at this point, is not well-intentioned, as my colleague Logar wanted to say before me, that it is in fact malicious and that it distorts the content given in the proposal itself. In fact, there is some pressure on journalists themselves as to what kind of broadcasts they should produce and when they should publish them. I agree that there may have been some sort of complication, there seems to have been a complication about putting this show in the archives. However, if you praise your peers with the ratings of this show, then it is more than obvious that there was no censorship and the show is still available online today, everyone can see it, and it is therefore completely incomprehensible that so much is being said about what should have been done, but even if the potential damage, which, I do not know, has lasted a few days, has been completely remedied. Colleague Logar may not have said everything he had to say from the recommendation, perhaps because of any self-censorship, namely the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government to monitor the state of the public institution regarding censorship and journalistic autonomy and to take all necessary measures within its competence to ensure the smooth implementation of the mission, objectives and tasks that RTV Slovenia has under law. This is a proposal proposed by the SDS Group of Members. What's the big deal? This is to recommend to the Government to take action. By law, however, the Government can in fact only appoint four members to the Supervisory Board and also have the opportunity to increase the level of contributions by a maximum of 10% in exceptional cases. So which of these two measures, colleagues of the SDS, are the ones who, according to you, will eliminate the established censorship on RTV Slovenia? I think that this is the answer that we Members of the coalition and also part of the opposition and all the viewers demand. The fact that any recommendations are made to the Government that have no effect having no legal basis, even if they were censorship to have any effect, is clearly politicising the topic. But I'm not surprised. I have already pointed out in the procedural question or proposal that there are clearly more of these reasons. You yourself said that you are all shareholders of one commercial television, which also competes for ads, as do advertisements on public television, when you play your information program. And you're a community of interest here. You know, if commercial television has more ads and the public has fewer, the value of your shares will go up if you don't, but it will go the other way around. You are interested in all competition, because not only RTV Slovenia, probably other commercial televisions, I think you are also doing it persistently, and it does not seem right for you to do it here at work when you are Members. I'm not saying anything, Mr. Gorenak. You can have shares anywhere you want. But if I were now a shareholder of an energy company, and here I would be mass-hitting over the power company's policies in 100 percent of the state's property, I'd find it obvious that I'm doing this in some interest. And so I also tell you that you're actually pursuing some of your interests. Of course, this interest that you are pursuing, also generally known, is some kind of monopolization of the merits of independence. You see such topics, which have been dealt with in this broadcast, as some recognition of that policy that you are going through, as it is that you attribute the credits for Slovenian independence to yourself, denying these credits to many other inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, also participating in the Territorial Defence and so on. As has already been said, the problem in this debate today is not whether censorship is admissible or not. We all know she's not eligible. The problem is that you want to impose, through your way of interpretation, some view that all those who are not for your proposal are for the Yugoslav People's Army. Look, this is unacceptable. That's, I'll say, at the level of some countries that have censorship institutionalized. I reject all your insinuations. The reason why we will not support this reason is, as you have already heard, that it does not have any legal effect, in fact, no legal effects, and the ZPS has also warned about this, and that we are implying some censorship through such a debate on individual broadcasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u125	Procedural or replica? You haven't discussed it yet. So it's procedural. Procedurally, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The previous presidents wouldn't give me that. Thank you so much for giving me this. Look, I have to ask you now, because this is procedural, I cannot tell Mr Zorčič to explain to him some of the economic principles that he has, but doesn't master at home, but he masters them here. He's talking about how interested we are in advertising and stuff. I don't think Nova 24 would ever have been created if we had a normal RTV. But we don't have it. Your shares, I told you once before, let him explain, look, shares are my problem. Anyone can buy shares where they want. You'd better ask yourself what it's like to do your wife's business. Let's say that a lot of work for government services, you're probably interested, too. The President, please tell him to be corrected. That's all I'm asking, that's all I'm asking, 'cause I'll tell you the rest when I'm next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u127	As far as I can tell, you're not registered anywhere to start. That's the first thing. The second is that it was a pure abuse of procedure. I can tell you that. Replica, procedurally has the advantage. I hope you won't complain that you're both going to abuse procedure. Gradually, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u128	Mr President, I suggest you see, we have now been again given certain lies by Mr Gorenak. What you said was a lie. Looks like you're a liar and I expect an apology for this business. I have told you in what context I am talking about your shares, and I suggest that you define yourself in this regard, but not that you are now mixing my family members here, who have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u129	There was also an abuse of procedure. I'll admit it. But since you've really gone to a level where there's no need to go to that. He's got the word "replication" first, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u130	Thank you. Look, earlier, Mr Zorčič had changed his mind because the government has no jurisdiction, so we cannot impose on it to make sure that censorship does not take place in the public office, and so on, that it is a secret purpose for us to carry out censorship and so on. Opinion of the Legal Service, because you're a lawyer, now I don't know if your wife is either, I don't know, but [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u131	Can you leave the wife of individual Members alone?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u132	Did I make any judgment of value in this regard? I don't know why you're so sensitive.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u133	Because you include in the debate what is not the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u134	The only thing I said was, I don't know if his wife is a lawyer. That's all. But even if it is not, he is a lawyer himself and probably knows legal norms and disciplines and the Legislative and Legal Service has said that the key competence of the Government and the National Assembly and the duty in relation to the media is to propose and adopt appropriate rules that must ensure the programmatic, organisational and financial autonomy of the public media, especially when it comes to the media set up by the State. Well, if there is censorship in a public institution that is obvious, then the government does nothing, does not do it, does not do its job. Don't do anything, it's just a mistake or something to do wrong. And this authority, Comrade Zorčič, is likely to be attributed to the National Assembly and to the Government, that if something is not regulated by law, then the Government will draw up a proposal and we will confirm it in the National Assembly or reject it. After all, there are also some laws that are named after a member of Zorčič or Zorčič's law or what is already called the mandatory moped helmet and the mandatory registration of mopeds. Clearly, then, if an irregularity or bad practice is found, the law governing it is adopted. We have this power, we have this power in the constitution and in the law, and if there is some record censorship in the public media, in the RTV – what are you going to sit with your arms and legs and watch how censorship goes on? Our job is to act. And once again, failure to act is the same thing as making a mistake as taking a wrong action, let's say with that Zorčice law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u135	Gradually, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Look, Comrade Logar, you're some kind of doctor, or I don't know what kind of doctor you are, but I'm going to read to you again what you haven't read as a "key duty to propose and adopt appropriate regulations". So you are ordering the National Assembly not to do its job, to suggest to the Government that it propose to the National Assembly [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, Comrade Logar, if you're so ridiculous that you have some concerns about not proposing an appropriate law to regulate RTV Slovenia, then this is your problem. But I, Mr President, suggest that you draw the SDS Group's attention to the right of business to propose a law that will deal with a problem they think is not regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u137	That's where the abuse was, too. Today it is the abuse of procedure itself. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't say it was going, it was a replica, and I understood the replica. You included your wife in the replica, which was totally unnecessary. That's a fact. All the arguments could have gone without it. That's a fact. The word has Mrs Jelka Godec [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Tell me it's procedural because it's usually said. Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you very much. President, as a doctor of science, not president of the National Assembly, that seems less important to me. It seems more important to me that you are a doctor of science, please, but please warn him. He says that Logar is “some kind of doctor”. What would you say if I said you were some kind of president of the National Assembly? They'd probably send me out. And it would be justified for us to do so, in my opinion. Look, we can't go like this and I'm asking you for a warning. You know, it's an insult to science, and it's from a man who's a mile away from science in some law firm. How would it feel if I told you you were some kind of MP, Zorčič? Don't let that happen, please. And the President, I really expect you to react here. Look, you came in earlier, and you said, "I assume you've abused" my colleague Breznik. You keep assuming because he's Beznik, you assume he's abused. Look, here I am on behalf of science, on behalf of the education system, if you want, and in any other name to respond. That's no way to hurt people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u139	Given all the living insults I receive, including my doctoral title, I'm not surprised, but to be insulted in every way possible, I've also received from you a number of insults, including in my doctorate and similar matters. But this time you're right to make fun of doctoral titles, Comrade Zorčič. That's what I have to tell you. But it also applies to everyone else. These titles, which were and which are in this National Assembly and which we use, are obtained in an appropriate manner. Of course, there are very different disciplines, very different colleges where they are acquired, but this does not affect that they are acquired in a way that is in accordance with Slovenian legislation, and not to be mocked. At the same time, however, the contrary is also true; the insult of persons directly linked to Members is also unacceptable. So we're very clear. I understand why this insult occurred, but the previous one was a completely unnecessary argument on the replica. It stands for itself and does not need to involve third parties. Now we can go back slowly. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u140	Mr President, I suggest that you keep the same vats and perhaps keep your colleagues when they make fun of other professions. I understand that you're also a doctor of science and that you're somehow protecting yourself, but we've also heard some mockery about professions, and I suggest you have the same vats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u141	I will also heed this warning. Mrs Jelka Godec has the word, then Dr Dragan Matić should be prepared and the word should be given in the final concluding part of the Government's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorčič, you would need a spiritual leader, as your colleague said we have a spiritual leader. And you would. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u143	Can I please?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u144	We definitely needed it because what you're saying is, in fact, you're doing yourself harm. [[…]] [[...]] Mr Zorčič, you also said that we should table a debate on RTV. What are we doing today? At the initiative of whom do we have a debate today, Mr Zorčič? After what you said, thank you very much for the advertisement for Novo24TV and our shares. But I'm worried, according to your statements, they might even fall because such statements as you make, look, Mr. Zorčič, the Nova24 TV shares were open or could be bought by anyone who wanted them. No one was defending you from investing in Nova 24 TV. Is anyone defending you? But the problem is, I have to pay for the RTV contribution if I want it or not. And what do I get for it? From censorship to various shows, which are politically biased, etc. We wouldn't discuss that, would we? When we face a problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party, such as RTV, then it is unacceptable to intervene in a public institution, that the government does not have any powers, that the ministry does not have the authority to go political accounting. What kind of political accounting are we going to take? What about when journalists in the back of the programming world wrote Death of Janshism that a man was appointed to the programming board, who otherwise thinks by clerophasists, etc. That's all right. For example, dear coalition, are you going to table any debate today about the fact that the closed-session programming board is discussing the Director-General? At a closed meeting of the public office about a person who will be a public person, if I say so, who will run a public institution. That doesn't bother you. That doesn't bother anyone. I'd like to know if you're going to propose a meeting on this subject and you're going to have a problem with these matters. That's normal for you. They close the session after long periods, and you can also read on the regime media, as you say we mark them as a closed session of the programming board today. Is that okay? Whenever we talk about public institutions in any area, the coalition goes straight to air. Why? It's a public agency for public money, taxpayers' money. What is the problem with talking about censorship? Something probably hurts in this documentary that was so successful. Earlier it was said that when Areh used old recordings and used them as current. Yeah. This video, which is from old insertations, old things, in fact, if we didn't know that in 2017 or if we were looking at it, we changed things a little bit, if we look at it from another point of view, shows exactly what is still going on today. That those elites who ruled at the time were shown there and still control things today. It probably hurts in the documentary. Not the way JLA was. These men have nostalgia about how they spent their time in JLA. But if you look at it differently, in fact, those elites who show them there are still in control of the scene today. Look at your faces: Dog, Earthling, I don't know who else is in there. That's all there is to it today. And that probably hurts the most. It hurts that there's no difference between that year then and today. This was also, in fact, indicated in this documentary. As has been said, dear Members of the SMC, also in that documentaries of the JLA file. “I think we are on the right track,” said one lady. “And if we continue this way, we have nothing to fear.” You use these words: we are on the right track, we have nothing to fear. Of course, if you're going to be so resourceful, if you're going to be doing this in public institutions, anywhere in any area, you have nothing to be afraid of. But after all, these voters who are paying for RTV's contribution will not be willing, but because we have to, because we have such a system, they will decide on the elections. And then you may wonder if this was the right way for you. I suggest you, coalition, call a meeting to address the issue of the programme council and the closed session, where the Director-General is decided, then you will show that you care about this public institution and that you do not want censorship or any restriction to take place there.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u145	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word. However, prepare for the conclusion of the meeting a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you for saying so, Mr President of the National Assembly. In a way, it is still lucky today that Grims is not a colleague of ours, because he would probably be offended if he listened to Mr Logar, who explained how the Law on RTV Slovenia is disorderly and that it would be good to regulate it. Mrs Eva Irgle spoke a lot about JLA, its crime, its rejection, the collapse of the previous system and so on and so on. Mrs Irgle, I suggest that you and all your colleagues ask your President, Janez Janša, to define once a relationship with the Yugoslav People's Army. He's not here today because he's mostly gone. He's a father on a business trip, we rarely see him. But look, his attitude towards JLA in 1989, 1990 was completely different from 1982. He was one of the great lovers of the Yugoslav People's Army. He was even one of the great promoters of the Yugoslav People's Army. At the Ivan Cankar High School, as a young adult in common sense, he taught us 15-year-olds that the Yugoslav People's Army is an extremely positive institution, a smith of brotherhood and unity, which defends the self-government socialist system and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and how we must respect this institution. He talked about her in superlatives. Not to mention his novels in Eggs with a flag with a red star, in the JLA uniform he was wearing and so on and so forth. Never before has this man been identified until this episode in his life when he was a worshiper of the Yugoslav People's Army. In history, however, when someone was a member of the military or some paramilitary formations in World War II, he repented. He said something that was wrong, he revised his views. But we've never heard that from Mr. Janez Janš. That's why your moral base, now that you're roaring about the Yugoslav People's Army, is your starting point a little bit mayhem. You know, you have a party president who was one of the most inflamed propagandists of the Yugoslav People's Army, which you are today explaining was so highly rejected and none. A colleague from the SDS is sighing. I believe I would if I had a president like that, but that's just the way it is. It doesn't sound like a laugh. It was a sigh. Why public institutions are always a problem, Mrs Godec asked. She's gone. Yes, but not just recently, we have been witnessing accelerated activities and aspirations in the direction of decommissioning the social state for several years. The foundation of each country is public service, and this does not work on profit logic, but on the logic of public interest. The public interest in culture and media is primarily to allow every citizen of Slovenia access to content, to content that is not subject to commercial marketing logic in the case of Radiotelevision Slovenia and, at least in the first place, do not only follow the calculation of how this or that minute of production will be the most sold or how to make the biggest profit at this or that point. On the one hand, the task of RTV is objective information based on an independent journalistic report on developments in the world, the country, the region and the local environment, on the other hand, on the programme production, which in each of Slovenia's equally remote homes brings cultural and artistic content, transmissions of sports and other events of national, regional or educational importance, broadcasts spreading international horizons and so on and so on. It is therefore content that is not available on commercial RTV stations, as already stated by colleague Möderndorfer, or at least not in the same extent and not at the same quality as only public RTV services. Unfortunately, as I said before, in addition to public health and education, we also have a case in the field of media and culture where we have attempts to dismantle the social state or public service. The attacks by the SDS on RTV Slovenia are orderly and follow the objective of destroying its public reputation. What are the possible motives, said Mr Zorčič. I believe, however, that the public institution of RTV Slovenia is getting on their nerves just because it is doing its public service in a high-quality manner. The attacks, however, aim to show that RTV is biased, that its editors and journalists are controlled by a particular policy to be ruled by censorship. Here are these requirements to establish the media world, this was one of the previous sessions to discipline RTV Slovenia and other media. This media world should be established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This was a fantastic proposal that you can't find a couple anywhere in the European Union in order for the government to establish an independent media council, which, according to some SDS logic, which it has even proposed, is under the supervision of the European Union, which has no cultural powers whatsoever. These are your suggestions, not today's, but it was months ago. Mr. Gorenak, you can see in the archive of magnetograms and suggestions you suggested. Here it is clear that RTV Slovenia is the SDS target. SDS President Janez Janša himself boasts in public and poses by not paying a contribution to public RTV and, together with his client's underage, is rooting for a campaign against the payment of RTV's contribution. Because he and the other SDS champions don't like how this or them contribution is presented on RTV. To abolish the contribution to RTV, which is a system charge and does not come directly from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, is a direct attack on the independence of public RTV. If this were directly financed from the budget alone, this would mean that each funding government can directly influence the public RTV programme, and this would no longer be public but also regime RTV. You're also trying to undermine her this way, fellow SDS. We also have to admit that we do not always like it, we from the SMC, how to report on us or our client in one way or another. Sometimes we think that a better, more well-founded report could be made, or that no matter what should be reported on public RTV is simply ignored. However, it does not come to our minds that now the leaders, editors or journalists of RTV, have been interpreted publicly at meetings of the National Assembly or committees, that they are evil, that they are controlled by a competitive political party, compared with other times, accused of being entrenched by censorships or that they are free tools in the hands of anyone else. We see what it is in RTV. The largest institution in the field of culture, which is key to national culture, the cultivation of its language and the correct and timely information that is increasingly important to everyone in the modern world. Of course, RTV needs to improve its activities in terms of professionalism, independence and objectivity. All of this is the foundation of public service, not just in the media field, but in any field. As soon as we lost our public service and space in any important social field, we would leave the commercial interest to the full, the collapse of society as such would begin. If we do not maintain the basis of the minimum common denominator, which, in the form of a public service in the field of health, education, infrastructure, energy or culture, represents cohesion or the common interest of everyone in this country, then the state itself loses its meaning and becomes really just an apparatus of repression and tax collection that is completely distant from the concept of the country. I am sorry that he is trying to implement SDS with his attempts to lift constant pressure on RTV Slovenia, this is now systemic and systematic, but we will continue to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u147	The replica, Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you, President. Look, we have a very unusual situation now. Mate Matić thought of it when he spoke of John Janša, but when he spoke of a subject that was very about to touch it, he obviously did not read our material again, but he read it. He had to read about the plurality of national television, he could not speak from the heart about the president of one of the parliamentary parties, but it was very hot. I went to look at the material we made again. I will only find Mr Janša here with the signatories of the material. Nowhere else. Nowhere else is it mentioned that it could be discussed substantively. If I have correctly understood my colleague Matić, the difference between him and Mr Janša is that Mr Janša has changed his opinion on JLA and Mr Matić has not. And he thinks the same as he did 40 years ago. If that's the case. Today we have discussed the existence of censorship in the national media, for which autonomy and appropriate and independent editorial policy are also concerned, including the National Assembly, in accordance with the powers conferred by the relevant legislation. And it is normal for us to hold a discussion as a responsible enforcer of the law if there is any apparent censorship. That's all we wanted to discuss. And now to tell someone that he wants to hold a debate about it, but obviously to deny himself the opportunity or the opportunity of a parliamentary party to demand this debate is twofold. We have now listened to merely and exclusively duality from the coalition. Once you have considered this proposal for a decision, read again the proposal for a decision. We want the Government to monitor all the signs of censorship on national RTV and to take action in accordance with the powers given by legislation. That's all. Look, it's not that hard, really. Just read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u149	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Ms Damjana Pečnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Chairman. Finally, I would like to recall once again the provisions of the RTV Slovenia Act that RTV Slovenia is a public institution of special cultural and national importance, which performs the public service in the field of radio and television activities established by this Act, with a view to ensuring the democratic, social and cultural needs of citizens and citizens. The founder of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia, whose duty is to ensure the autonomy and editorial independence of RTV Slovenia and to provide adequate funding for the public service. The government has specific powers with the RTV Act, which we have heard many times today. The Government has no powers in the field of programming policy. The programming policy of RTV Slovenia is within the competence of the Programme Council. Journalists, journalists and other programme workers in addition to the applicable legal standards in their work also commit to the professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics in force on RTV Slovenia, as well as to the general residenceal and ethical criteria or codes that apply in their professional field. Public broadcasting plays a key role in society in the exercise of freedom of expression, which also includes the right to information, and it is therefore very important to ensure the effective independence of society. This is also clear from Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which states: Everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom of opinion and acceptance and communication of notices and ideas without interference from public authorities irrespective of borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u151	Ms Eva Irgle also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! First, Mr Matić, let's be clear, we have proposed a discussion on censorship, not how it is reported in certain broadcasts. Of course, there is something to be said about because not everything is the best. And it's not any kind of pressure, but it's responsible behavior. Today in this debate I was able to see a lot of nervousness, twirling, especially the last performance by my colleague Matić was something amazing, the mudslinging of SDS, the mudslinging of Janez Janša. I think Mr. Matić was a doctor from Janez Janša, if I'm not mistaken, at least that's what he looks like. But Mr Matić, here I must tell you when you make at least a percentage of what Mr Janša has done for this country, then I will listen to you and take your words seriously. Until then, you better be quiet. Better. As for the RTV Programme Council itself, Mr Matić, I am still with you. You told me in the debate that I should run for city in the programming world and then discuss what is going on on RTV and so on. But I fear, Mr. Matić, that it will be very difficult for me to come through your political network. Because if we look at what you did last year and what happened with the programming world, then I have to warn you or remind you that, say, as a coalition in the programming world last year, you called politically profiled individuals. Under the cover of civil society, of course. But you don't say that. You don't say this because it's irrelevant to you because it's important that your people are there. You appointed a candidate who was an active member of the SD and also ran for City Council on the SD list. The program board was proposed by viewers and listeners. So, under the cover of civil society. But you're not interested, Comrade Matić. Then you appointed a gentleman who was the candidate of Desus at the early State Elections in 2011. So it's also about a gentleman who's somehow politically profiled. But you don't care because you only deal with Mr. Janez Janša night and day. Then you appointed to the programming world last year the Maribor City Councillor of the Modern Centre Party, which was proposed, but this is true, legally, we have nothing to say, it was proposed by the Alliance of Youth Friends. Then you have proposed a gentleman who is probably in line with your ethical standards, which you have been defending as the Party of the Modern Centre since you came to this Parliament. You have proposed to a gentleman who spreads a remarkable hate speech every day on Twitter. But you don't care. You're still dealing with how someone said something before, I don't know, before Slovenia's independence. That's not what you're interested in. You don't care about this democracy. You don't care about this democracy. You probably haven't crossed over from that former system and changed your mentality and your mentality, so you stay trapped in it and just talk about it. Then you proposed to a gentleman who has very good connections with former President Milan Kucan. Interesting. But this gentleman does not only have very good connections with Mr Milan Kučan, this gentleman, who is today a programme councillor and decides how things will take place within a public institution that we pay precisely all electricity consumers. This gentleman has a very good relationship with Mr. Grounder. Not to mention who Mr. Grounderic was. You probably know, now you probably know. Mr., who has acted or even served as Head of the State Security Service and is still holding his hunters throughout the country today, especially in the health system. But this is not of interest to Mr Matić, this is irrelevant – ah, because it is only about corruption and customerism! It is important that Janez Janša, who made for this country, not to say how much, unlike you, Mr Matić. Then you proposed some other people who would certainly not have come across this network into the programming world if they had not been politically profiled. So it was carefully chosen individuals under the cover of civil society. Finally, all I would say is that we in the Slovenian Democratic Party have proposed a recommendation on censorship on the RTV house. We also explained why censorship was to take place. And no one rejected it with any single argument, no single argument. Of course, there was a lot of mud and talk to ad personnel instead of ad rem. However, I would suggest that we focus on content that is important rather than on accounting in this national assembly, both on the graves of individuals who do not deserve it. You said we were conducting this session of pressure, political pressure on RTV. What kind of pressures are we putting on? But saying that, say, certain journalists don't work in accordance with professional standards, ethical criteria and ethical codes, which they put in their statutes, is then a pressure on the operation of the RTV house? This is not the pressure on the operation of the RTV house. Once again, it's not pressure, but it's responsible. And it's a good thing to talk about it. Dear Mr Matić, we are indeed no longer living in those times when human rights were gravely violated when article 133 of the Penal Code was in force. You who are familiar with this area certainly know what Article 133 of the Penal Code says. You got 10 years in prison if you just got the wrong view of party power. And you praise those times. And I'm sorry, it was JLA who was the pillar of this system. Also due to JLA, the previous state has held on for so long. But you're bragging about it. I don't understand what you're afraid of if people make a documentary in which, thank God, they're collapsing some pictures with which they've been asking us for years and years to crash some of Potomkin's villages. I don't see, I don't even understand what the problem here is, what are you afraid of, what are you afraid of? It was an aggressor army, and it was, Mr Matić, even though they said that I was talking nonsense, but it was an aggressor army that attacked us. Let's face it. That army attacked us. But we've successfully defended ourselves. Even because of the credit of the person you keep mucking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u153	Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired and it is obvious that there is a desire to share time under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to remind you that you can report to the debate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each of the applicants shall have five minutes to discuss it. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u154	This last discussion by the proponent showed that it was not censorship. It's not about this proposal that's far from honest. What they actually proposed. But it's just a personalization, a personal disqualification, what happens all the time. We always have some puppies, Earthlings, some fears. This has indeed become unsustainable and unstoppable. Believe me, young people there up to the age of 30 don't care much about what you're doing with your fears, which, by the way, you're the only one who's experiencing. I have to say, if you have such vats that you always use personal disqualification, then I have to tell you that in fact, when you're five times, ten times, you repeat one and the same 50 times, a very simple citizen already understands that you're making a fool out of everything. Not to respect, without not understanding, you very well understand what a public institution is and what the mission of RTV Slovenia is, but you simply want to have a kind of unrest because of your hairy peace. You just won't bring him in this way because you're doing the public decomposition of the public institution RTV Slovenia in the way you do. I'll tell you one more time. Public TV RTV Slovenia has its advantages and has its weaknesses. Weaknesses due to size, because of the great system and also because of some who have been working for many years. And the new and old generation have their own views on how television should work. But generally, television works well, not just about television, I'm talking about the public service of RTV Slovenia, I'm talking about radio too. The censorship you're talking about lives in your fiction, in your heads. And you abuse it successfully for each of your manoeuvres, with which you can appear in the National Assembly, because it allows you to do so and to warn you of something that is not. In fact, it's just one thing. Remember how many times you have submitted such meetings when you have had your four - year mandate with your spiritual leader. There's never been a session like this. You've never had a session like this before. You always only have it in the opposition, because it's the only way to get to your word. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Unfortunately, I didn't find anything new, but every time, you convince me that we don't live in a matrix, but in reality. And this reality is you. This reality is slowly insufferable, but I will endure, believe me, I still am. I can handle that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u155	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u156	Dear colleagues, I only have five minutes. There are a few things that need to be highlighted. Modern technology and resources, including archival footage, prove something else. The public RTV house was not created in April 1990, but continued to move on from leaded times to some normal times of democracy and respect for human rights. Look what was the main problem. Every time anything turns out on RTV, all of a sudden there's a technical problem. Look, it's very simple. [[sound record - turn off the microphone]] I was playing for you what Jože Smole told you what RTV Slovenia journalists are. They are sociopolitical workers who are consciously obliged to respect Marxism and Leninism. That's what they said, look, I can say in 1989 and 1990, when this system fell apart. This is what we came up with, and a whole range of these journalists stayed on RTV Slovenia. Not that they were educated in some political college that she raised in this spirit, but they also worked. That's why I have to look at them so much more. This is a very simple matter. Lustration in Slovenia has not been performed and these people are still sitting on RTV Slovenia and have the status of so-called grey eminences. Madam colleague Irgle, who has given you a number of arguments, you always insult her as a woman. I would also like you here to be consistent, well-respected colleague Möderndorfer, for example, in these matters. I was showing you what your ideological colleague once was, we could probably call a role model, saying that they were sociopolitical workers. At least you don't regret a colleague who gave you some arguments. The other thing is usually, if we are alone, if our colleagues are not, we do not argue with a colleague who is not in the National Assembly. Today, some of you were talking about some ethical code of Members that was supposed to be adopted. If Mr. Janez Janša is gone, then you can't argue with him. In 1980, I too was sad when Tito died. When I went abroad, when I realized what kind of ideological cemeteries I was living in, and in some totalitarian country, I just missed out. You know, the problem with some is that we missed it. Janez Janša’s problem was that when he was a young boy, he overlooked what he was taught in schools and what was served to him by then - day journalists and also a media picture. The problem is that these journalists are still on RTV Slovenia today, that they are public servants and that they are paid from public money, which we are collecting literally when people, citizens and citizens of slaves today are RTV Slovenia. Some even report from the apartment because they did not pay for this contribution. And today you've polished and thrown into the same basket some commercial little television that uses modest means to create some kind of program, spreads some other truth, and publicly says it's right television. On the other hand, we have some kind of television, let's say a system that has never experienced any major renovations has not been launched by some new democratic spirit. And there's always a problem. The problem is, when some truth is described in the former totalitarian regime, there are technical problems at one time. Always! Always, dear colleagues and colleagues! I spoke today, you may remember, two years ago there was a former member of the SDV from Croatia, who on TV3 Slovenia spoke finally to the public and said that at the end of the 1980s, at the beginning of the 1990s, Mr Zdenko Roter went to Croatia and asked former Esdevians if they could come to Slovenia and mislead the public that Mr Janez Janša did so. What do you think happened? At the moment, those 11 seconds were cut out on the third program. So again technical problems, colleague Gorenak, you know, and the others. That's the problem. We just don't trust these people. I'm not saying that to everyone, but some of us just can't be trusted, which is why we're looking at them. If it were a television called a commercial television of former elderly widowers and former statesmen, then people should buy it, pay it, code it, and we don't have a problem, democracy gives it all. However, if all citizens and citizens have to pay a contribution, then we expect some relevant reporting. You spoke of your academic titles today. I can tell you I've counted, I think you've talked about Mr. Areh more than ten times. Mr Areh is also a doctor of science, Dr Areh, was a man, was a young journalist who survived in the battlefields in the former Yugoslavia and also watched genocide in Srebrenica. And he reported accordingly. That is why he created his own opinion, and with his scientific work he can be said to have made a relevant documentary about it. I don't know why someone, if a leftist, including a liberal, is protecting a system that was criminal, which the Constitutional Court has already told you about. It's not some normal left, excuse me, or some liberal current in some European spirit. I never understood you here either. However, I think that there is some debate on this subject, some public television and censorship or not, which is necessary in the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u157	Let me explain before I give the word forward. I think this is the first time I've ruled someone out. I gave you my word, but I did not give you your audio records, because for something like this, it is necessary to consult the president in order to be able to play, as it is necessary to consult the president if you want any video screening or anything like that. It is against the rules of procedure that you use your word in this way. That's a fact, and I took advantage of it for the first time. You've had, I think, at least 30 seconds more time, because preventing you from using your word, and then getting your word back again, that's also a partial precedent. So please, nothing procedural about this. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you very much, President. Since it has been said in the last debate that Members and Members who are not present at the meeting should not be discussed, the President is asking you to state, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on which Article I must not discuss a Member who is not even attending meetings. Why isn't he in on it? I'm not going in on it. But no one, especially the Rules of Procedure, prohibits me from discussing people who are connected within the debate. Because by this logic, if this were to be true, there would be plenty of times when there are only three of us in here, in fact we should not be discussing anyone else at all, because there is no one in the hall. And it's happened several times before that I've left the hall and kept mentioning my name and you're applying it without any problem, but now I see in a procedural way that we can't discuss an empty chair, I can't say a name, an empty chair that's still empty. He's been gone for a month, and he's gone, and we never see him. Why he's not here, that's his problem. That's what you do, and the public if you want. But no one in this House is going to stop me from saying Janez Janša's name, and it seems to me that from a procedural point of view this is incorrect. In addition, because of the above-mentioned insult, please tell me only one insult which I have made to my colleague, Mrs Eva Irgle, except that I do not agree and that she convinced me that it was not really the intention of what you proposed at all, but that it was only a personal disqualification. Please, if there is this article, warn me, I will be very happy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u159	I suppose you'll have a procedural one, too. Two procedurals, then. First of all, for this procedural point, this article does not exist. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We're making progress. He gets procedural every time. Two years ago, I said it wasn't right, but if you think it's right, then I'll have a procedural one. My procedural proposal, however, refers to the fact that the leadership of the National Assembly, this is the Vice-President and you, are uniform criteria. That all three of you are coming or, above all, you are coming from the left political option, I have long told you that you are not the president of the coalition, but you are the president of the National Assembly, and have the same vats for all. Example. This morning Irgle spoke about how nice it would be to have young people on the balcony when they come to the National Assembly as MPs and receive almost a reminder from your Vice-President. Almost. You can't say that. But when you led the meeting of the National Assembly and Karl Erjavec said for this keynote speaker: "Congratulations to my mother, who is today's birthday." Look, the president, you were quiet, and you were in charge. Once again, I repeat, even in the case of Mr Breznik, please be the same, otherwise I will have five procedural requests at each agenda item to be equal to all. You can't let Erjavka take advantage of the broadcast of national television, while Irglovo will just fall off the stage and take her word because she says it's good if young people like them were on the balcony when they came to the National Assembly. Look, it's a double steering vat, you can't do that. You really can't do that. And one more thing, Mr. President, is that when the Members speak from the left, you do what Mr. Weber did before you. So I warned him once, but only once, and he never did it again. And I thank him for being corrected. The opposite policy option is, he ran the National Assembly properly, I'll tell you. Look, you're doing what he did. When your parents speak, you look at a sheet of paper as if you are terribly busy, so of course you can hear what they are saying. But when our people talk, you're like a hawk. Please, President, be fair and equal. That's what I expect from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u161	Me, too. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I hope modern technology allows for a lot of things. I have shown, and I have merely insisted that this is also a typical taboo theme for you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. That's why you interrupted exactly what I showed you. So that social political workers are journalists. That's what Mr. Jože Smolaj said. So you interrupted me and you told the story that the rules of procedure didn't allow it. Excuse me! What you've done today, this precedent, we can say something new. And this is the new censorship we have in the National Assembly. We talked about RTV today, and now we've come to the National Assembly. Now look, you were saying I should have announced earlier. Yeah, if I was a speaker there, showing statistics, you'd let me do it. I don't need it because I know the technology, I put it on the speaker, and from this film, the archival one that's being discussed today, I was just playing a few seconds of this speech. And you broke it off. What's the problem? Are we living in Parliament, still living in democracy? Where do you live, President of the National Choir? You're still living in 1945 with your ideologicals. I don't know who. It's a precedent that never happened here. And you're twisting the rules of procedure, but I have to come and announce it. Well, please, if I were to play there, if I were to give you your technology tools to join me with, of course I should announce it. Now, I don't need this because things are running wirelessly, and I put it on the microphone, and people can hear what we're talking about, what kind of journalists we're talking about. Like your MPs, who we've been looking at for two and a half years, when they're reading, like we've got Prezhich's reading badge here, and they're repeating like parrots some things they've written and they're not even thinking. They don't even think about what they're writing. And when it's gone, they're suddenly embarrassed and they can't go on. People can also look at this by looking at new technologies. So, Mr. President of the National Choir, now I think you've reached some summit. If you're saying that I'm using my arguments in Parliament all the time, then I'm opening the question. And I also ask you, colleagues, whether it was a use that I played for four seconds, which was played in this film, which is so terribly disturbed by some on RTV, so-called grey eminence, and, as I see, also bothers the President of the National Assembly, who should be our joint president respected colleagues. Please, President of the National Assembly, it's my procedural, I'm not using it, tell me what's in the rules of procedure, which is not what I've done now. Please explain this, as the lawyer explains it, and with some real argument, let me hear it. That's what I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u163	The words of someone else can't be part of your debate. But you can either actually quote or quote this other one, which is what you had all your options, or you can basically summarize the other one. We speak in this House because we are a Parliament. And here Parliament is meant to speak, not to use other technical means. Other technical means are only when words are used to help. There is talk in Parliament, but it does not play recordings. Procedurally, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u164	Mr President, of course, that was not an argument. So it's not read from now on. Dear colleagues, just talk. Please don't read either. We'll just talk. [[..]] Now those were your words, because I see you're not a lawyer, you're a speller. And once again, I hope that people in Slovenia will be able to take a look at this video of my play. Look, modern technological means, this is this fourth industrial revolution that I've been talking about here for two years, which we're late, allowing me not to quote, but I can let go for four seconds precisely so that it's authentic, so I can say it. You say that this is not allowed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2017. It is not allowed to use modern technologies to achieve some, we can say, matters in Parliament and in the course of the democratic processes that are in place here. Do you know what you're saying, Mr. President of the National Assembly? Do you know what you said at this point? But you know that we're going to record this now and I'm going to play it to all the younger and new generations, to those who will someday be sitting here, when there will be completely different technological means to see what I had to endure and some of my colleagues in 2017? And from now on, as you know, don't read anymore, we don't have a reading badge, there's no competition for the Prezhich reading badge, but finally start talking with your words, with your thoughts and with your knowledge. That's what your president of the National Assembly told you today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u165	It doesn't make sense. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u166	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u167	No, you didn't say procedural. You have the floor, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u168	No, I raised my hand. [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u169	I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u170	You didn't see it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u171	I didn't see it, and I didn't give a procedural one either. You have the floor for an ordinary discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u172	President, this is the first time that you have allowed me, as one of the oldest Members of Parliament, no procedural permission. I raised my hand. But if you are [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u173	You didn't pick it up, but [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u174	I raised my hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u175	When?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u176	I raised my hand, but I don't scream procedurally, like everyone else. So, if you've done this on me, I expect it's a standard that will be the standard to go forward. But I wanted to ask you if you accepted my opinion, procedurally, to be president of the National Assembly and equal to everyone. That's what I wanted to ask you. And you didn't plead. So I'm the first one you didn't give him procedural, so we're clear. I hope that's how you treat everyone else. Although I only suggested it to you, you know. But equality to everyone. Let's move on. Mr. Matić, where were you during the war for Slovenia? I don't know. You'll explain it to the public. If you've been with a gun on your shoulder, and you've created this country, tell me. But if you weren't, then don't insult the one who did this country. Don't insult the one who did this country. I don't know what was going on with you, but as for the Egg, I don't know what else you've got involved in, which is the agenda item, and the President of the National Assembly should have taken your word, and he didn't take it from you. So I'll tell you, if you read this to him, then I'll tell you that he went to jail in 1988 at least so that you can yell at the National Assembly today. [[advertising from the hall]] That's right. Otherwise, there would be some other people in this National Assembly. That's the first thing. And you have no moral right to see it because you live where 1985 was. Let's move on. Look, Mr Möderndorfer talked about how the Law-Legal Service made it clear what he thought about it, and how it applied something. It's great that something's worth it. Why did you not take into account the opinion of the Legislative Service that a mandate should not be taken? Why? So don't bite. Let's move on. You talked about all those things, independence and expertise, ethics, codes. Now, I'm going to ask you the following questions. When we have two events in this country, one director is cut off by four tires, while the police are informing the Attorney General, which has happened for the first time in the Republic of Slovenia and beyond, this expertise, ethics, responsibility and so on is out of the question. National television reports four tires. However, he does not report that he is the country's first prosecutor. How? Come in. €27 per migrant has been reported for a week. And when I emailed them and told them to look at this report, they said: “We will publish when we find it. For now it is €27, because the government has said so.” Come in. 975 wills have been reported all last week that they have now been transferred to the Notary Chamber. That's not true. The official data of the Ministry of Justice is 5,000 329. Ethical, professional, responsible or something? Do you think they don't have to say anything? Yesterday or Saturday, I'm listening to a reporter, and this shows you fighting over a foreign law and, of course, ties it to me. And he says I'm repeating the mantra of a thousand 600 euros per asylum seeker. Yeah, it's not true, it's even a thousand 900. That's what the Court of Auditors said. And this reporter calmly ties to the deleted, as if that's our problem. We wanted to solve this problem in 2001 in the same way as your predecessors did in 2013. Individual treatment, up to 2,000 euros. But this reporter is still blowing her own horn. Edward Zhitnik is crying, “There is still hope”. Do you know there's hope that Hillary Clinton will win? Yeah, you're crazy! And I'm not paying for it. Why do I have to pay for it? As long as they report to you in favor, you will always defend it and always talk about pressure. We had an argument, and you said it was pressure. Give me the counterarguments, the numbers, it will. Mr. President of the National Assembly, thank you very much. I expect you to do the same procedure you did to me that you didn't give me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u177	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First of all, why we use the notes in our performances at the Modern Centre Party. We are trying to be responsible in the debate as well as rational. There are many of us, but time is limited. And to unwind our thoughts and leave our colleague to discuss them, we use our notes. It's quite simple. It's nothing special. I like to believe that Mr Breznik speaks in his mind, in the literal and convey the meaning of the word. Mr. Breznik, if we put him there, he will be able to speak for an hour free of his head or of his experiences from Siemens, which he has remembered immortally, or of communist crimes, or of what was a Ustasha terrorist who was a martyr. All this he can say for an hour. He doesn't need any record, out of his head. And Mr Grimes and everyone else. You are literally speaking in mind and in a translated sense also. As for where I was during the war on Slovenia, Mr Gorenak, although you were a member of the people's militia, you are no longer in this role and will not hear what I was doing at the time. And the fact that Janez Janša is sitting in prison so that I can talk today just points to the cult you're cultivating in your client. Your client is really more of a cult than a normal customer, because you love a man, but well that's your problem. That's not what I'm getting into. About me having problems with JLA. At no point have I ever defended JLA, nor the previous regime, what the lady who is here is now gone, Mrs Irgle, has read to me. They're just lies and teasing. I just said that you're probably living here in the past because you're always dealing with her because you're always coming back with her. You will take every topic on the agenda of this National Assembly in this direction, on communist crimes, on the crimes of the Udba, and you are directed to the past. You're immortally in love with the past and you want obviously from this past, that some psychiatrist might think to change something because you've obviously done something wrong. And you keep pushing us back into some of these debates that are completely infertile. What kind of hero is Janez Janša and I can't tell him that he was a teacher of defense and protection and that he taught us 15-year-olds how great JLA was. And he was a fanatic admirer of JLA and he was an official of the communist regime. If I remember that in the JLA debate, there's nothing wrong. But if he does not sit here – yes, he hardly ever sits. He's never almost here. How am I supposed to deal with him if he's not here? How, Mr. Gorenak? You're gonna bring him in once, and we're gonna talk about it? Or let him ask himself what experience he has had with JLA since he was young. At the time, he was a very young man, not a 15-year-old like us, who had to listen to his lectures on JLA and his commitment to the former communist regime. If we go back to the darkness, because for the last hour and a half, you all talk about everything else, but not about the darkness. Today's debate has shown that Mr Areh did not receive any censorship when this film was produced. This film was made free of his own reflection and according to his professional abilities as he already has. I will not now assess whether they are positive or negative, whether it is a bad film or a good film, it is not my job, not even in this role now that I am here as a Member. He received various criticisms, positive and negative, from viewers. If you call it censorship that someone has dared to express an opinion that is contrary to yours, you all say that this is an epochal film that should have won not know how many awards and is not in the public interest that Mr Areh made. That's your opinion. But if someone else has the opposite opinion, you can't say it's censorship. What if someone who's his colleague, a journalist, makes that public? He probably has more idea than you, Mr. Gorenak, who was a member of the human militia, and now you are a lecturer at a school, a college or a college. He's probably more qualified to speak his mind. What's wrong with that? Is that censorship or what? You want to make yourself out of some righteous people who are convinced of the past, even if there's only an empty chair instead of a man who's been involved in some sort of event. And I'll mention it in the JLA debate that you triggered. It wasn't me. Your proponent has spent at least 15 minutes discussing JLA. And that's all I could get into, and there was nothing else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u179	Do we want to end the debate with two procedural ones? Procedurally, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I think he called first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Now, President, I think Mr. Matić has something to explain. I don't really have a problem in my work history, even if I was working with a police force that was then called a militia. No problem. In 1991, of course, I did not work there, but I was an advisor to the Interior Minister. And you're obviously incapable of telling me where you were during the war. If we were able to say it, we'd say it. I was there and there, and I was building the state of Slovenia. And that's how it's gonna stay for me that you didn't do it. And if you're still my notions of communism, I'm not ashamed to be there, but today I know what time it is, and I'm moving away from it, but you're not. Look, it's so hard to talk. And if you take the right to insult someone that voters send to this national assembly with the most votes, look at your number, and look at its number, then something is wrong with you. But this will be judged by the people. You came and you'll go, and he'll stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u181	Well, it was a procedural abuse, but it doesn't make sense. I give my word for the procedural Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u182	Yes, I am also now addressing you, Mr President. Before you censored me, I hope you'll at least warn Comrade Matić not to regret it. Look, I never do. I have arguments. Today, colleague Matić complained. As always. Look, buddy Matic, for the first time, you said there was a militiaman with a doctorate. Comrade Gorenak, you know, he didn't have the same thing as you, his father wasn't an officer of JLA, he wasn't a privileged man, and he had to walk slowly down the stairs, and that's why he has his doctorate today, which he has from the knowledge he masters. And these things count and we listen to him. Now, look, doctor of history, when journalists ask you when it's state holidays, you couldn't answer when it's state holidays. But you're a doctor of historical science. That's a fact. When you say I'm talking. Tell me my slips, the things I was saying, but they weren't holding. Give me my slips that I told you here, and they didn't keep the numbers. That's all I'm asking. And I'll apologize to you, to a lot of other people for my slip, if I made it. This is some kind of correctness among fellow Members. Not to insult your colleagues. This morning, the President of the National Assembly, you pointed out that even those who have academic titles, I regret only two experts, so you will not be offended. I respect everyone he's reached, and I would also ask you to respect your colleague Gorenak. He's the only one in his sciences where he's been doctored. He doesn't have a sledgehammer. People daily see his rich knowledge, which he has from security skills and also carries on. That is why we like to listen to him, including colleagues who are currently in the coalition and who are on the other side. That's why I'd ask you, my friend, not to do it. I'm not doing it, but I could because I mentioned you today. The doctor of historical sciences didn't know when we had State holidays. You see, this could be a slip from which we would make a fool of ourselves, and we haven't mentioned it yet. But please don't drag us by the language anymore, because this is going to go beyond all limits. I want the debate under way, the President of the National Assembly, and I want you to note that we are not offending our colleague and colleague here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u183	I'm warning everyone, and I'm warning you that we don't insult each other. But now I'm serious, and now it's really enough. Can we end this point now and go to the next? I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. On the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006, the Commission concluded that the aid granted by the State was compatible with the internal market and that the aid was compatible with the internal market. The interim report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of public function holders in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica. An integral part of the interim report is also an additional interim report on quality (smoker value), stocks and the buying-in price of coal in the investment in Block 6 of the TEC, which is marked by the degree of business secrecy, the protection of personal data, and is therefore inaccessible to the general public. Since the additional interim report contains only a summary of the part of the hearing of one of the witnesses, it was agreed at the 84th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly that the State Assembly should consider the interim report in full at a public meeting. If anyone would like to discuss an additional interim report, please inform me beforehand. In this case, in accordance with the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 104 of the Rules of Procedure, the point and the meeting will be suspended, but after all the further speakers have received the floor. We will then continue the meeting in closed session, at which the discussion will be possible as part of the remainder of the meeting. At the close of the meeting, all measures comparable to those on the basis of the treatment of materials marked with an “internal” degree of secrecy will be carried out. I ask all debaters not to give information in the public part of the debate from an additional interim report which is not available to the public. We are moving on to a debate on the interim report and on the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Matjaž Hanžk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u184	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members! At its 3rd meeting, the Commission of Inquiry to establish the political responsibility of public function holders in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant decided to break the evidence procedure into three substantive but meaningful sets. It thus defined three sets: Public procurement issues, questions about increasing the power of block 6 of the Heat Power Plant and the price of the investment, issues related to the quality, price and stocks of coal in Pregogovnik Velenje and questions about the response of ministries, governments, HSE, TES and Coal Coal Velenje to the decisions of the National Assembly. As the first substantively rounded whole, the Commission has focused on finding answers to questions about quality data (smoker value), stocks and the purchase price of coal. The reason was the fact that the price of coal, as demonstrated by the parliamentary inquiry, was an important factor in the decision of Members to turn on the green light in their vote for the so-called "guarantee law" to start an investment in an object which is already and will shape the fate of the Slovenian economy and the well-being of all citizens and citizens who will pay back the resulting or emerging debts related to the project in question. The present interim report presents first the concentrated course of the parliamentary investigation, the implementation of evidence, the involvement of civil society and the final essential findings reached by the Commission. The investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant has been accompanied since its inception by controversy both in the professional public and in politics, especially in the civil sphere. The questions and doubts were multifaceted. Is it really necessary to build a new coal-fired power plant because there is a trend in the world of fossil fuel abandonment? And if so — is such a large power plant really necessary? Is it enough for her at the economic cost of fossil coal? Would it be sufficient to modernise blocks 4 and 5, which was also one of the original plans? Perhaps more attention should be given to environmentally friendly ways of producing electricity? By saving up, investments in building renovations may be less energy efficient. And there's a lot of questions. Most of the time, however, the issue of the construction process was raised. If a new block, why these sizes, block 6 was built in terms of a good master or there was not only negligence but also corruption? The size of the investment and the continuous modification of its parameters from the project through price to contracts have raised more or less legitimate doubts about the rationality of the whole project. Six new investment projects and a host of additions and changes have clearly raised doubts about the rational implementation of the project. Most of all, however, there were doubts about the constant change in value, which rose in 337 million April 2006 to almost one billion and a half so far. I'm going to help myself with the speech aid, and I'd like to say some important things. You could have read everything in the interim report. Now I'd just like to warn you. It was already clear in 2003 what some in TES are planning: a huge investment, regardless of all restrictions. By then, it had been seen that the write-off of block 4 and block 5 would be nothing. These unrealistic expectations have not stopped anything, nor has the rapid planning of an investment that has not yet been fully completed, nor has the issue of sufficient coal in the coal mine, nor has the public been alerted. Here we see that already in 2003 Dr Rotnik planned that in 2012 and beyond Velenje will be a thousand 445 megawatts of power. This was a time when it was not yet in the energy strategy and most thought it was just something non-binding. Whoever questioned it at the time was under pressure if you don't help, it'll be an electric eclipse. This was also helped by the energy union, which often threatened ministers to do something. In 2004, I will not show here, even in the newspaper TES bragging about how they have already purchased additional gas generators for 30 million to increase and extend the work of the fifth block so that they can reach a thousand 429 megawatts. In the meantime, they were making up, as Dr. Rotnik said, because of the pierres of counseling, to say that it was a substitute block, that 6 would replace 4 and 5. And now we see it won't. Also in December’s interview, HSE’s director said that they were planning to rebuild Block 5, although it was too expensive to rebuild Block 5, so it was necessary to build Block 6. Now that block 5 is built, they will, of course, repeat. Why 600 megawatts? They always argued that this was necessary because the plant was as large as possible, construction on the megawatts was cheaper. Under 600 megawatts, we wouldn't even get to, as they say, BAT technology, Best Available Technology technology, this is called a 34% profit, even though banks require a 42-45 lignite, and the reconstruction of the old block could be a 36-40% profit. We found in the Polish plant Platnow 2, which was built in 2008, and we can compare it, it has 475 megawatts, compared to 600 megawatts in block 6 of the TES, has a 44% benefit, although the lignite is 10% worse than the giant, while this one has 43%. I'm not going to repeat the price, let me just say that theirs cost 540 million, which means 1.3 million euros per megawatt, while in block 6, it's almost 2 times that. And if I may say so here, I can say that with the money that went into this, we could build a second track and maybe a large part of the road to Koroška. The essence of all of this was the knowledge of the price of coal. They kept talking, the starting price, the net price, the cost price and so on, even though the government required the guarantee law to sign the final price. Let me show you that. It's a matter of coal. In the end, I'll tell you what the conclusions are. In 2010, the coal miner wrote this, and I will read: "The TES minimum operating scenario means immediate closure for Coal Velenje due to enormous cost increases and, as a result, to the cost of production below 3 million tonnes. The cave is dimensional for the production of 4 million tonnes. With a few years prior preparation, additional measures can be taken to strengthen production control of 3 to 4 million tonnes. Under 4 million tonnes the operation is no longer justified. In addition, Coal Velenje reports that at 2 million tonnes of annual mining, the price of coal would increase to EUR 5 per gigajoule and even lower production would cost even EUR 17.” If you look at that picture, because you see, from 2030 on, it says more than half of its time, the mine will operate below 3 million tonnes, and since 1940 it will operate only 2 million tonnes, which means more than 5%. It is interesting that they have signed all the time and the government has also signed to the National Assembly that, no matter how much they dig, the price of coal will be 2.25. I'd just like to finish our report here. We have found that it was mainly, this you have in the final conclusions, the promised price of coal both to the National Assembly and to the Government and others misleading. They manipulated the price all the time, as shown by the comparison of the Velenje Coal and mined coal. If you just connect these two together, you see that anyone who's only about to deal with coal, with investment, should know exactly that 2.25 can't be that a lie that's going to cost us a billion and a half and much more. If we decided to go to TES for a smaller one at that time, we would have fewer problems because coal would not run out. As you can see, if I go back, one third or almost half of my block 6 operation will work with two-thirds power. Instead of making it 600-megawatt, they'd do 400, 450, and they could do it all the time, the coal miner would have had enough work to do. Thus, we can count on what some have told us in recent hearings that more than 2030, 2035 block 6 will not work. So we're wondering what was the point of having a billion and a half, and much more, if we're counting the loss that they're going to make interest on this project. I'm not going to focus on any other questions, I can say that. The price was manipulation, the coal mine is likely to be insufficient, so imports will be banned even though the municipality of Šostjanj in 1988, but will have to land. But we can't judge the value of a chicken, and we think it's going to be about as satisfying as it is now. That's the first part. We are preparing the next interim reports by about summer, so that we can probably present complete results in autumn. Here we have not proposed any conclusions for adoption, because the objectives of our commission are questions of political responsibility. "Here we have dealt more with the responsibility of the builders. However, it can be seen from this that politics was probably not at least as careful or as careful as it should be. we're just comparing some of the documents that I've shown here in the fragment, and most of them in the report, we might immediately know that the whole project is questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you, Chairman of the Investigative Commission. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We begin with the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, for her Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go, Mr. Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Investigative Commission for the Identification of Political Responsibility, the possible involvement of officials in the construction of Block 6 at the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj began its work at the end of 2015. It is attended by representatives of all parliamentary groups, that is to say our DeSUS Group. So I must make it clear that we also have an extremely strong interest in Desus in order to be able to find the culprits in the investigation committee by the end of our operations, which have led to an enormous increase of €650 million from the initial €650 million to more than €1.4 billion. Today, we have before us the first interim report of the Commission of Inquiry on TES 6, which covers the findings that the Commission of Inquiry has reached by this time. The report contains, in particular, findings on the quality of coal lignite or its burning value, its stocks, the buying-in price of lignite, which is smoked by the TŠ6 block during its operation. On the basis of the evidence obtained so far regarding quality data, i.e. the burning value of lignite, the actual stock and the buying-in price of lignite which they are smoking in Block 6, the Commission's findings are the following. Already in the introduction, it was said that this commission of inquiry was set up to identify, in particular, potential political responsibility for possible irregularities in the functioning of officials, suspected corruption and crime in investing in Block 6, which severely limits the Commission's own framework of action. For the beginning of work, the Commission of Inquiry had to take note of the very course of planning and construction of the energy facility. In doing so, she had to first determine whether the allegations and suspicions of irregularities were true so that she could continue her work at all. Without analysis and evidence of this happening, the Commission was unable to initiate an investigation into the involvement of the officials. Although many indictees indicated that a number of investments were wrong, the Commission had to find out on its own. If I hadn't found these mistakes, I wouldn't have been able to continue my work. That is why we first set out to check how the investment took place and where there were assumptions that something was wrong. The findings will be set out in several interim reports, with a view to eventually linking the errors to the responsibility of the officials through all the reduced findings in the interim reports. To this day, the Commission of Inquiry has heard most of the witnesses directly related to coal and Velenje Coal, where they also dig. However, there are still a number of witnesses who will be questioned in the future before the commission of inquiry and may further shed light on the coal problem. Therefore, there is a possibility that in the final report of this Commission we will supplement the findings, perhaps even slightly change them, in the context of the information obtained from these new witnesses or in the acquisition of new documents that would suggest it. In order to verify the testimony of the Witnesses, the Commission of Inquiry had to review the vast amount of material that we received from the institutions and individuals involved. Some of the witnesses also submitted additional documents to the commission of inquiry themselves. At the same time, we have also found several times that some institutions have not provided us with all the necessary information or documents, which further prolonged our analysis over time. As it all appears, the Commission of Inquiry now has at its disposal most of the documents on which it will be able to draw conclusions. So why even investigate the investment in Block 6 TEC? Because from the very beginning it has been accompanied by controversy both in the professional public, in politics and mainly in the civil sphere. There are several important issues: whether a new, substituted coal facility really needs to be built, as there is a trend in the world of fossil fuel abandonment and, if so, whether a block with this much power is needed, or whether it might be sufficient if old block 5 is updated. The quantity of lignite to burn in block 6 is also a very important issue. Will the stock be sufficient until 2054, for by then the operation of Block 6 is envisaged? Another very important question is whether it is possible to dig up lignite all the time in operation at the initial fixed price of lignite 2.25 euros per gigajoule. This price was taken into account in the investment project. In the commission of inquiry, we have met with many other important issues that have prompted our further work. At the time of implementation of the investment, six new investment projects, from NIP 1 to NIP 6, raised additional unrest and serious doubts about the correctness of the investment project. The greatest doubt was the constant change in the contractual value of the investment, which had been incomprehensiblely increased in individual nips, but sometimes also decreased in the meantime, with the multitude of other additions and changes which had further raised doubts about the rationality of the investment. Even in predicting the price of electricity on the world market, its determination was too optimistic. Especially after 2008, when the crisis occurred. However, it is a fact that, at the expected higher prices, they were easier to defend this investment. However, this particular interesting fact is that since the beginning of the reflection on the TES 6 project in 2004, virtually all values have changed continuously, the price of lignite has remained the same all the time, i.e. 2.25 euros per gigajoule, which is particularly worrying. As a result, Velenje’s coal miner sold Lignite at a higher price. Of course, this manoeuvre was intended to prove that the investment and then electricity production in Block 6 would be profitable, as the coal price of 2.25 euros per gigajoule, which was actually too low, on the one hand, was compared to an over-optimist estimate of the price of electricity. On this inappropriate basis, which should prove that both with investment and later with electricity production, it will be all right to be profitable, then TES Director Dr. Uroš Rotnik signed a contract with Alstom without prior agreement of the TES Supervisory Board. The original contract is not written in Slovenian at all, but only in English. We could still understand this, given that it is an international treaty, but after the testimony of certain witnesses before the commission of inquiry it was not translated into Slovenian at all, which we cannot understand. That is why we have very serious concerns here, because Slovenia is the official language of Slovenia, so the contract is only in English according to our assessment of non-compliance with the Slovenian legal order. The undeniable fact is that the terms of the Alstom contract are very incomprehensible, as Alstom has virtually no contractual risk in the construction of Block 6, but the overall risk based on the contractual arrangements falls on TES. That's more than unacceptable. And here we can ask ourselves whether someone might have even arranged a case on purpose that could not be made out of the English contract text or whether certain contractual arrangements could not be properly understood. The project was guided all the time by the principle of the facts carried out. But all decisions were made under pressure of lack of time. It is also worrying that much of the emergency facilities and equipment were not already included in the project's price at the outset. Not to mention again the unrealistic coal price of 2.25 per gigajoule, the neglected anti-corruption clauses, the escalation formula of the investment price meant only an escalation upstream, i.e. to the detriment of the investor, including already paid amounts, the margins of the contractor, double margins in raw materials and semi-produced products, so that the procurement issues were not touched at all. The suspicions of crimes of counter-interest, recklessness, lack of economy of public money were also addressed by the KPK, the Court of Auditors and the Police, but due to legal constraints, none of these authorities are modelled on a comprehensive approach to the issue and provide key answers, which I find extremely worrying. I will mention only one indent of the interim report of the KPK, which states: "The KPK also notes that this lack of response of the state authorities was not primarily due to the conduct of professional services in individual offices or ministries, but rather to political influences and decisions. The KPC further notes that State authorities and policies have acted in an uncoordinated, non-transparent manner and with delay in key decisions on a case-by-case basis." In determining the facts of transit, i.e. Stocks, value and price in the investigation committee raised doubts about stocks and the possible need for partial imports of black coal. It was twofold due to the fact that Velenje, before the decision to build block 6 in TES, planned the closure of the mine in 2028 when the mining stocks of lignite were exhausted, and for this purpose also prepared a plan for the closure of the mine. Block 6 of the TES extended the lignite excavation until 2054. To conclude my position on the interim report, however, the following: Undoubtedly, the Commission of Inquiry found that the price of lignite was for key fraud, which fundamentally changed the results of the calculations in favour of the economy of the investment in Block 6. It is very important to note that, a few months after the adoption of the State guarantee of EUR 440 million leased by TEC to the European Investment Bank, the price of lignite has increased significantly. With very high probability, we can conclude that there is reasonable doubt as to the sufficient quantities of lignite in the mine for the time of operation of the block 6 until 2054, so they had a spare version in the background of imports of the missing amount of black coal. We cannot judge the burning value of lignite; we can only believe the price on the basis of the testimony and available documents that the entire duration of operation of block 6 should remain approximately the same, with swings plus minus 10%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u187	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Initially, allow me to express one simple wish, which is also a disappointment. When we look at the work of Mr Logar, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, here and there, or forever, and always we would like to see Mr Logar come to the committee investigating irregularities and political responsibility in the construction of the 6th block of Thermoelectric Power Plant Šostjanj several times and to receive answers to a number of questions that we have asked us today. However, we will most likely wait a little longer, and I hope that we will at least take an example with Mr Logar if the efficiency of the Commission is not already at the same level. If I touch the report myself. It is difficult to talk about a report that does not have a conclusion at the end and the Commission itself is faced with the fact that one of the key witnesses has not yet completed its hearing. It is necessary to determine whether, during the first part of the hearing, she knowingly and knowingly lied to the Commission. On the other hand, when we try to answer key questions, we can find that some of the members of the Committee on Active Control of the Implementation of the 6th Block Construction Project, one of which was finally the Director of the Termoelectrica Šoštanj, were unable to answer the question of what they were doing in this Committee, or to answer a multiple question of what were the tasks of the Active Monitoring Committee. It may not take 15 minutes to identify the problem, and it may not take nearly a year to figure out where the key problem is and why there has been irritation. In order not to discuss too much as a cat around hot porridge the price of coal, the value of heat, whether it makes sense that gas boilers in the thermal power plant, which, by the way, are at a time when drought and hydroelectric power plants are not able to provide sufficient electricity, work with full steam, as well as support blocks, not just block 6, and almost half of all electricity is supplied today by the Termoelectric Power Plant Šostanj. We can discuss all of this, but none of these issues really matter. The key question is who he is and why he signed an agreement with the Government in the context of the financing of the project, although it is still suspected that on the date of the signature, we are checking whether he was lying or simply wrong, knowing that the price would be higher and he signed the framework with the Government consciously. Under the line, someone has also signed under the documents providing a guarantee of combustion value, for the amount of lignite accumulated and for the feasibility of the project. Under all these estimates, both the Government and the National Assembly have signed people. With a name, last name and academic address. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me ask myself what we're talking about if we know all this. Why is this and that technical issue more appropriate for the level of expertise than for the level of the Commission of Inquiry? Key issues, who has signed knowingly that the price will be lower, knowing on the day of the signing of the agreement with the Government that we will not reach this price, that it will be higher than it will be. Why the Committee on Active Control does not know what, what, and how it supervised, remains unanswered and in the air. We seem to be wandering in the dark, and it seems to me that the ones who should really be responding and who, with the help of such long debates, I fear that in the end they will not lead to anything, they are merely smiling, the burden of their actions, apparently because we still do not know anything, but will remain on us, on taxpayers, unfortunately also on the many inhabitants and residents of the Valley, who are too often left behind because of this project at national level, being tarnished, disappointed and with many projects today. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u189	Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u190	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. The sixth block of Thermal Power Plant Shoštanj has become a monument to corruption. Remembrance of the personal exploitation of February at the expense of the State and citizens. In the construction of the sixth block of Thermal Power Plant Šostanj, a staff of different governments exchanged, among which the SD of my predecessor and SDS played a key role. A key goal, and the common goal of all governments was to bring this project to its end, and to make it cost as much as it wants and what it wants. So far, we have been costing us 1.4 billion euros, and it will cost us a lot more, because TES 6 is already producing huge losses and is, as they say in a joke, the only hybrid thermoelectric power plant in the world, which works partly on coal in part on euro. Corruption, the exhaustion of the country, the catastrophic effects on the environment and the astronomical cost of the project are only the main reasons why we have taken the initiative in the United Left to set up a parliamentary investigative commission. The purpose of this Commission is to explore in detail and, above all, to prove the responsibility of politicians and public officials, so we are looking for responsibility with surnames and names. Today we are discussing the first interim report of this Commission of Inquiry. The report deals primarily with coal, its price, its burning value and its stocks in the giant mine. Local accessibility and the low price of electricity production were the main arguments for the investment, which today appears to be an inheritance and completely flawed. To this end, the Commission of Inquiry has carried out a number of hearings which clearly show that the main supporters of the investment have been knowingly misleading from the outset with information on the price of coal, which was crucial to prove the economy of the entire investment, and doubts are raised as to the data on sufficient coal in the Velenj mining. Of course, many experts and non-governmental organisations have warned about all of this in the course of the investment, but those responsible in the policy and the HSE have listened, despite the fact that the price of the investment has practically continued to increase from month to month, which was already very clear that the whole project is seriously wrong. Instead of at the start of the envisaged 500-megawat block for 600 million euros, we received an additional 600-mg block for a billion and a half euros, which had already produced a multi-million-million-dollar roofing hole to HSE during the first year of its operation, at a time when greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced to cleaner renewable sources of energy. But if I go back to the report. The highest coal price of 2.25 euros per gigajoule of electricity was a condition for the economy of investment. This number has been monitored by TES 6 since its very beginning and has, last but not least, been included in the law as a condition by which the state gave EUR 400 million in guarantees to TES 6. But such coal prices The Coal Velenje has failed and will never be able to provide. Several governments had before the adoption of this law documents, as the Commission pointed out, that such a price of coal was unrealistic, since TES 6 had already purchased coal from Velenje coal at significantly higher prices, while reducing stocks and technologically more difficult mining due to the depths of the future, and it was logical that the price could never be lower. There are also indications of sufficient stocks in Velenje Coal, which were also in one of the conditions of the economy of the investment. Before the decision to build the sixth block of TES 6, Velenje was planning to close in 2028, and for this purpose he even prepared a closure plan. Even if coal mining is extended, this requires digging at larger depths and a more technically demanding excavation, which will significantly stimulate coal. Therefore, it is increasingly clear that in the event of the operation of the sixth block until the end of its lifetime, that is, by 2054 – here again I warn, the coal mine is expected to be closed as originally planned in 2028 and will have to be imported, which will significantly encourage it, while this is environmentally unsustainable. This was pointed out by various studies and development documents of the coal mine itself, to which decision makers had access at key moments. The report under consideration proves that fraud with the price of coal is a key part of the TEM 6 advocacy strategy. It also demonstrates the false promise of jobs that the 6th block is expected to bring to the Velensko region. It is clear from the plans of Coal Velenje that the price of coal will be reduced to a large extent by reducing the cost of labour — this is a quote — or otherwise, by forgiveness and rationalisation. Thus, in TES 6 today, we can see that the opposite is happening; the number of jobs is shrinking, and those remaining are shifted to poorly paid jobs. We are aware that Project TES 6 has not yet been completed despite the completion of construction and the start of operation and that the tragedy continues. It is clear that TES 6 will burden financial citizens more and more. The liquidity of TES 6 should be ensured only by establishing a so-called priority electricity distribution from TES 6 at a higher price than the market price, meaning that the difference between the market price and the price at which the TES is able to produce electricity flows to electricity customers, i.e. to citizens and citizens. In short, the price for TES 6 will be on the electricity stand. In the state of energy report for last year, we can read on page 7, quote: »The acquisition, which is important for the further provision of reliable energy supply in Slovenia, was the beginning of the experimental operation of block 6 at the thermal power plant Šostanj. Block 6, which will help reduce CO2 emissions due to more efficient coal use.” With such quotations, we can only wonder if the authors of such writings are serious. TES 6 last year had slightly more than 100 million losses and questioned even the liquidity of the HSE board company, thereby stifling the investment capacity of the Slovenian electricity industry. In addition, in 2010, the then Director of TES 6 promised that Block 6 was a replacement and not an additional block; Block 4 was to be closed and Block 5 was to be a cold reserve. However, when the experimental operation of block 6 began, it was found that the temperature in the boiler should not fall below 100 degrees and that they needed a steam from an external source, after which they forced the additional operation of block 4, which is environmentally inappropriate. However, the additional problem is that remote heating of Velenje was not foreseen for block 6, which means that one of the old blocks still has to operate for remote heating. So much for this record that Block 6 will ensure more efficient coal use and help reduce CO2 emissions. On the contrary, Block 6 is now an additional block for the previous two obsolete and the releases have only increased. That there was further information that block 5 would also be relaunched, so we should not be surprised. The problem is that block 6 of these promised positive environmental effects would be achieved on a 100 % operation and operate with reduced capacity. As a result, the environmental aspect of TER 6’s operation is much worse than promised. Another development in the field of energy is worrying and cynically could be said that politics in the story about TES 6 has learned a lot, but of course not how to stop such projects when it is time, but how to do the same. Right now, we can observe how virtually after the same hoof as the sixth block of the thermal power plant Šostanj is being built, the construction of the second block of the Krško nuclear power plant begins. The state-owned company, in this case GEN energy, has already spent millions of euros before the start of the project. The exact number is unknown and two years ago, it has been estimated that more than 13 million euros have been spent on various studies so far. Today, the amount is probably already over €20 million. Moreover, EUR 20 million is the limit at which, in the case of TES 6, the then President of the Government of Borut Pahor said that too much money has now been invested in the project to make sense of stopping it. The nuclear power plant is not mentioned in any act which would be part of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, even though the project is not as big as the one mentioned in any act which would be part of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, as was the case with TEŠ 6. As with TES 6, the price of electricity to be produced here is undervalued. That the price of nuclear energy is not real today shows the latest report of the Fund for the Decommissioning of NEK – as is the case with TER 6. Although in the event of a decision to build a second block for an investment that exceeds the sixth block value twice. In spite of the fact that the decision for such a project goes beyond the competence of the management of one company and, although this will have a decisive impact on the development of energy for the next half century, in the case of NEK 2, as in the case of TEZ 6, we can observe how the policy is silently landing and, with its silence and irresponsibility, blessing the re-absorbing of the country and another corruption monument. The promise of the current coalition on a referendum to decide on the construction of a second block of nuclear power is forgotten. Finally, although the purpose of the parliamentary investigation of case TES 6 is to focus on the past, this is mainly about the functioning of the system. On the basis of the findings of the parliamentary inquiry, we should change the system, amend it so that new TES 6 and NEK 2 do not occur, in the form of any public-private partnership or new mega-Romanian projects. This also entails the need for the Commission of Inquiry to identify and require the acceptance of the responsibility of public officials who are responsible for the project while at the same time showing how to change the system so that such practices do not occur. We will support the report in the United Left, and we believe that the commission will do this work.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u191	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u192	Dear colleagues, good evening! TEZ 6, one of the largest energy investments in this country, which has also been investigated by the parliamentary investigative commission – and we are talking about the country's dizzying financial obligations, including the law, or the proposal of this National Assembly. The investigative commission, so in general if I say and do one cut, does this investigative commission harm – no, it doesn't hurt! It is good work; that Parliament is working to investigate that we are dealing with things that I believe were unjustifiable and that financial manipulations have taken place in the case of this project; as we have heard, this could be a symbol of corruption – or we believe TES 6 as a symbol of corruption – and so on. So, this commission of inquiry doesn't hurt that we have it in the National Assembly, and it's okay that we have it to investigate. Have we learned anything today, and do we have someone against whom we can press criminal charges against? Have we found out who is responsible or politically responsible? Far from it! Far from it. As a result, the key work ahead of this investigative committee is only coming, and the only one that is more important in this story is the lignite price; that there was also a misdirection of the policy here, that the lignite was, in fact, more expensive than it was originally said or promised, and then that the government found further in 2009, and that the government of Borut Pahor, when it could stop, did not stop. Well, there's been a lot of suggestions. Even by the then coalition partners. Well, if I could just take it from you. See, since the inclusion of TES 6 in the Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 and the investment programme of April 2006, the same dilemmas remain. Even now, according to this report, we are facing the same dilemma: is it a legitimate investment — yes or no? We still don't have that answer. Why has its value increased steadily, and how does this affect both HSE and TES itself? Most importantly: How much risk is there today for the cashing of the State guarantee for long-term loans of EUR 440 million? There is no answer, as we have already been trained, but the question remains, the responsibility for this is without a doubt an inevitable situation. Thus, the Honourable President of this Commission of Inquiry, I stress, today, on the day of this report, we are still without important, key findings, in particular regarding the political authorities. First of all, it's still important that we work this out. It is incomprehensible, and it is also unacceptable, that the estimated value of the investment has increased to a thousand EUR 440 million, or a billion EUR 440 million, if anything, from 2006 to the end. Despite many concerns of the profession, and even then one part of the ruling coalition in 2009, the government of Borut Pahor said in March 2009 – I am correcting – the TES 6 policy project did not stop. I could've done it then, but it's not there. In the meantime, the value has increased and in 2011 it has thus already exceeded the value of EUR 400 million. While it is true that the economic situation in Slovenia has changed significantly in all these years, the economic crisis has led to a decline in electricity consumption and the price of passive electricity has decreased significantly since 2006. However, it was not until 2013 that the National Assembly proposed to the Government that it should then be reported to the Government in November on the implementation of certain decisions adopted by the National Assembly, but nothing had actually happened. On the political side, from the very beginning to the end, and the key decision makers, not only the political ones, but also the directors, nothing happened, despite the various warnings and decisions of the 2013 National Assembly. And at today's market prices of electricity, we can only rightly expect that TES 6 will continue to generate huge losses if electricity prices are respected today. If they're what they are today! And in 10 years' time, we'll be wondering if this loss is going to be between, I don't know, about 700 million euros, and we'll be wondering what we did in 2016, 2017. Let me remind you that last year's loss was more than 50 million – just for the frame. And what is crucial is what we Members of the National Assembly will do. Now we are just following up on the fact that no one is responsible for anything, but there is nothing, and simply filing criminal charges against some natural persons who are supposed to abuse their position does not mean a solution to the situation, nor does it mean preventing further financial losses that we already know will happen today; I stress that such electricity will also be in the future. In Novi Slovenije, we are still concerned about the ease and misinterpretation of the fact that TEŠ 6 is not able to deal with suppliers on its own today because of its poor business. A key problem, or one of the key problems in this regard, is the guarantee. Indeed, the State has imposed a heavy burden on itself by this Law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for its long-term loan liabilities of EUR 440 million, or the amount of EUR 440 million leased by the Termoelectric Power Plant of Šoštanj to the European Investment Bank. Indeed, the heavy burden that will increase the pressure on the ground, and the burden that we, I think, are the only ones – correct me the older Members, but I think the only one – was opposed entirely by the Members of the New Slovenia Group. The only one we have opposed is a strong State guarantee against this guarantee for TES 6. Now this question can be very expensive, up to €440 million, if things don't change in the future. In addition, on the basis of the accepted guarantee, the State has concluded a treaty with TES 6 on the regulation of relations which lays down, inter alia, the deadlines for the completion of the project, the conclusion of a contract on the long-term supply of coal and the framework for the profitability of the energy project. And not to forget the most important element of this Treaty: the total value of the project must be lower than the total value of the project mentioned in the fourth amendment of the investment programme, i.e. a thousand 300 million euros. This condition does not appear to be met. But it's crucial, finally, if I can figure out where we are today. Where we are today, not only with regard to this commission of inquiry, but generally with TES 6. See, the law enforcement authorities, as I have already said, have indeed filed several criminal charges for suspected abuse of position and rights and for the destruction or counterfeiting of business documents, but Christian Democrats are asking whether this is all we can do with respect to TES 6 – many say that it is a symbol of corruption and clientelism in Slovenia. But is all we can do is file some criminal charges and that's it? In doing so, I stress only the fact that the Director-General, former Director-General of HSE, Mr Blaž Kosorok, for example, questioned in the past the credibility of the NIP 4 and NIP 5, who had overestimated the investment costs and, in the fact that all the administrations of TEZ 6, all the administrations, at least after their testimony, had deceived the competent ministers with regard to the true value of the 6th block. On this basis, Members, we rightly fear that nothing will actually happen in the future with this investigative commission in order to obtain political responsibility, not with any other investigative entity in this country. Indeed, it is irresponsible for citizens and citizens to continue to behave in a way that is so obviously irresponsible and unconspicuous, and to seek fault for the situation elsewhere, but not to knock on their doors. If I finish. What lesson do we learn from this story for the end if we do not already have the guilty? They're fighting a little. That's what it feels like to me. They're fighting! We started to build or go to the nose to build another very large investment project, a second track, without having a closed financial structure or knowing how much this second track cost us. Even if we knew that. And fear, before that, colleague Luke Moon talked about NEK 2, about another story – he didn't mention another track himself – but not knowing how much it costs us and going to build such an important investment – really irresponsible again! In ten years' time, we can have a report not on TES 6, we will forget this, but another project called the second track, and then NEK 2 if it goes as far as we are making up these projects in this country. First of all, we need to know how much it costs us, how much we will give for something, but not that we are setting up state-owned companies with former state secretaries in these positions and that is why no one will be responsible again in the future. Thus, those who are responsible and in positions of decision-making should have more sense in making guarantees and building such investment projects — and ahead of us, TES 6 is a story from the past, but at least the second track is a story from the future — to have more sense in these decisions, what it costs and what it pays for.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u193	Mag. Alenka Bratušek will postpone the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, as many of us are here today! At the outset, I must say that I am surprised that there is so little interest in such great harm for such a great story in the National Assembly. TEM 6, a story that has such a long beard and enormous cost. A number of governments changed when decisions were made regarding the construction of TER 6. In fact, the Commission, which we set up in the National Assembly, has only one task, namely to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to this project, whether as state or municipal public function holders. The interim report before you gives a good description of the problems in the construction of TES 6 and even better answers to interrogated persons. As I said before, the task of the National Choir is not and cannot be to determine criminal liability. For this we have other bodies, and I hope that our hearings have been heard or at least read the records of these hearings. By the end of the term, hand to heart, this committee will have a difficult task, and, honourable President, the great responsibility lies primarily with you: but now, from the present part of the Commission and also from the interim report before you, you will be able to understand, above all, many accusations among individual actors who today can point to each other, only to wash themselves from the guilt. The fact is that the TES 6 project went a lot wrong, the fact is that TES 6 was too expensive and overpaid. The question for the police and the D.A. The fact is, the information on the price of coal has been speculating. The price of coal is a key input when the price of electricity is counted. The price and quantity of coal in the Velenje mine were key information when the policy decided whether or not they were going to the project. Can you believe that these two key players are interpreting each other in their own way today? The price of coal, which is taken into account in the investment programme — anyhow, is quite a few innovations — is lower than ever in the past than TEC has paid to the mine. Why? Because it's the only way to make the project viable. If the project were not viable, it would not be justified and probably not at all. But TES 6 stands and credits for this investment will have to be repaid, so it is right that those who have sinned also respond. There's too much speculation and there's too little to do. Whether it's those who are looking for the culprits of the bank hole or those who are responsible for TES 6. We all remember the great promises that the first priority of this government will be to prosecute those responsible for the bank hole. We all remember the promise of finding responsibilities for TES 6, and then it was this diction that came out of the coalition contract by mistake. What's wrong with that? The government's response to the call that those responsible for the 500 million-dollar bank hole at least respond morally and give up the compensation demanded from taxpayers do not give us much hope. The government and the ruling Members are not prepared to do much on this subject. One hundred reasons they find to say that everything is O.K., that all the conditions are met so that the guilty can answer – nothing happens. However, those who have scissors and canvas at this time in your hands now have the responsibility to do everything in your power to be sinners, whether it be a bank hole or a TER 6 are indeed responsible. I would like this commission to bring its work to a successful conclusion, so once again, President, the great responsibility lies primarily with you, because – hand to heart – we are the only call of the National Assembly to discuss this subject in a special committee at all. In our Group of Members, of course, we support the Commission's interim report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u195	Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Marusha Škopac for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u196	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Colleagues and Fellow Members! Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant is one of the cases of poor project management in the past, which no one doubts today. Since the start of the investment, this project has been accompanied by various debates on the usefulness of implementation, both by the professional public, politics and in particular in the civil sphere. Most doubts were raised about the alleged unstable financial structure and thus the long-term threat to Slovenian energy. Let me remind you that this is an object that TES has classified and adopted with a strategic development plan already in 2004 with the aim of replacing technologically obsolete and economically non-profitable remaining blocks of the thermal power plant with its 600 megawatts. Further decisions necessary for the implementation of the project have, however, been taken by all governments for a further 10 years. In public, the investment was the most resilient in the phase when the price of the project began to exceed the values that would maintain the long-term sustainability and economic viability of the project. The National Assembly adopted a law in 2012 granting a loan swap guarantee to the European Investment Bank amounting to 440 million for an investment that eventually exceeded all the expected values and reached a dizzying billion of EUR 440 million. It is more than clear that such a big project would never have come to life and would never have created such a devastating financial picture without the support of political actors. The latter is the subject of consideration by the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders and investments in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. At the time of the preparatory action, the Investigative Commission decided to develop the evidence procedure into substantively separate sets and firstly to focus on finding answers to the quality data question, indicating the burning value, stocks and the purchase price of coal to be used in TES6. In the course of the decision on the economy of investments and later in the decision of Members to adopt the guarantee law which allowed the start of an investment, the price of coal was precisely that of maintaining the investment and determining long-term financial sustainability. In doing so, it is interesting that virtually all the estimated values of the project changed continuously, the investment value changed, the NIP content of the items was taken and added, while the price of coal remained the same all the time, 2.25 euros per gigajoule, although Coal Coal Velenje was already selling to the thermal power plant at a higher price. Thus, in addition to the breach of the guarantee undertaking, which was given at the time of the adoption of the guarantee law, that the price of the entire investment would not increase more than €300 million, there was a breach of the coal price commitment. In this regard, the commitment was made several times that the price of 2.25 euros per gigajoule would be achievable and in line with the long-term electricity purchase contract from 2015 to 2027, which of course proved to be misleading data. Today, the signatories and supporters of this price claim that it was the starting price and that the policy and decision makers that it was the maximum price. Therefore, the key findings of the Interim Report on Quality (Currency), Stocks and Coal Buy-In Prices for Investment in TES Block 6 can be fully agreed to the fact that the transit was a key distortion which fundamentally changed the results of the calculations in favour of the economic investment in TES 6, with the key fraud related to the price of coal, which has increased significantly for several months after the adoption of the guarantee law. As has already been said, the fact remains that more than €1.4 billion worth of investment could not be realised without strong support from the political environment. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we expect that these first results of the Commission of Inquiry, linked to the facts affecting the decision-making in the adoption of the Guarantee Law, will focus on identifying the decisive responsible public function holders involved in this fraud and thus act contrary to the benefit of the State of Slovenia and its citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u197	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all in the hall and to those who accompany us! We have ahead of us this Interim Report on Quality (Fire Value), Stocks and the purchase price of coal in the investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant. The Investigative Group has set itself something, one might say, a phased objective or content on which it has also built this investigation. For the introductory part or for this initial part, we have set ourselves the goal of finding out what was wrong or what actually justified both the quantities and the value of coal and the value of that coal, because this information was actually occurring in both the investment programme and in all the new investment programmes at all times in the same value as the rest of the parameters were illogical in some way, and we have already found in the initial phase that this was one of such misleading moments in this project. Therefore, it was somehow concluded that this professional part of the project should first be heard, we are talking about responsible persons in companies, we are talking about Premogovnik Velenje, Termoelectrica Šostanj and Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, we are talking about directors, we are talking about professional colleagues. Interestingly, in all these hearings, there was essentially no desire for any hearing to be closed to the public, everyone was prepared to talk, but there was one conclusion, as in a hearing in the case of a bank hole, that memory was one of the worst aspects of these interrogations. Most things have either been forgotten, or they don't know, or they've never heard of certain things. There were also very interesting hearings on the same subject by different actors, where we have very different views, as we can see from the report. The fact is that, as far as coal is concerned, none of the professionals from whom we expected some relevant interpretation of the value of 2.25 euros for gigajoules could explain this – the same as the price of electricity and sales. On the one hand, the talk was that this was a defined price set by Holding Slovenian Power Plants, on the other hand, it ensured that the value of coal was also set in some way, and no one knew who had actually fixed that price. And as we have found, there is no serious and concrete explanation in the report. From this point of view, the information that we Members had in deciding on the guarantee law was misleading, but it is true that under this document it signed the entire set of both coal mines, the Termoelectrica Šostjanj and HSE. From this point of view, it can be said that this price, which is also the basis for the calculations of the economy, was indeed misleading, and this also assumes responsibility. In the initial phase, we also heard members of the section. In this case, very eminent energy experts, as well as the economy, and this group, which met in 2006, also in some way advocated the value of this project or its installed power of 600 megawatts. In these reports and previous discussions, they even considered significantly larger, even 800 megawatts and so on, but in the end it was common view that 600 megawatts were the most suitable and most economic power plant for the replacement block in the Šostjanj thermal power plant. Even these explanations and these records are very difficult to understand when we look back on them, convincing someone who is reading them. It is said that the decision, which was incorporated into its programme at the end of the Termoelectrica Šostanj and Holding Power Plant, is based on the position of the expert group, which was also appointed. There was a lot of talk about how this project was problematic. I have to remember, but by 2008 there was virtually no opposition to this project, there was no activity that would have been overly involved in this project. We have also checked the placement of this project into a local-level space, and it should be borne in mind that this project was actually supported in the local environment, even in this professional context, probably justified by economic pay in this period until somewhere in mid-2008. It is important to know that at the time the price of energy on global markets was extremely high and that the profitability of the project was also appropriate. This was also referred to by all the administrations, and at that time the state did not even get involved in the decision-making and monitoring of the project, because it had been a positive outcome all along. The problem arises when both the economic crisis and the fall in prices on the energy market arose. At that time, a number of committees took place in the National Assembly, which dealt with the subject, there was also a change of government and a change in Parliament for elections, so that there were also several meetings of the National Assembly in early 2009, which pointed to this issue, but there was no response from the politicians and decision makers. At that time, this project was somehow engaged in terms of the financial liabilities for the circus of 25 million euros, as the people who participated in the hearings now say, it was such an order in this set of investments that were waiting for implementation in the Alstom case and that money was not included in the underlying investment and was lost in any case. That's what the witnesses are saying right now. Thus, in 2009 until somewhere in November 2009, this project could in fact be stopped without any loss and easily frozen and later, once the prices in energy markets have been fixed, can also be realised. There was a lot of talk about burning value, stock. If you carefully read the reports, all these professional documents, which are annexes, somehow speak within these expected values of combustion and also for stocks, it is difficult for us to say that they are misleading, because the documents exist, even the various professional institutions have checked this, so it is difficult to talk about this in this respect. However, the fact is that the price of this was energy-intensive from the start was easy to deceive. In 2009, there was also a key change in the leadership of HSE and there was also a signature of the parental guarantee. We're talking about October 2009. This parental guarantee also meant the recapitalisation of TES and the payment of that first amount at the rate of Circus 80 million. From this point forward, the project was actually on the way to a difficult stop. In the case of the guarantee law, it must be concluded that, as I said, we Members with certain documents in the National Assembly have actually been misled and that responsibility for misrepresentations will still have to be established in this segment within the Commission. Most of the documents transmitted by key companies have been, we can say, adapted to the fact that the project is positive. And this has been happening practically all the time in this project. In fact, the conclusions cited by the report have a basis in the hearings as well, and the hearings below will be very interesting, as has already been the case on the Commission. There was a lot of talk when we asked both directors and key decision makers in companies whether they were under any pressure or influence. All of them, I'd say, confirm it, but no one has spoken with names and surnames. The same is happening to us now that we are hearing in some way the next phase of decision-makers, we are talking about state secretaries, directors of Directorates and later ministers, where these hearings are very interesting, because similar answers and accusations are continuing. Thus, the Commission will probably have to consider further in order to invite more of these witnesses to one of the hearings and to cross-examine or question them. It was also very interesting when all these directors and interrogators were asked about the preparation of a new investment programme. Most people don't know who made up these numbers when we asked who was providing data for coal, who was data for other segments. They simply replied that they had not dealt with it. Even when the question was why, in a certain case, the revised investment programme had increased or decreased, there were simply no explanations, except that the world market situation was changing, but these were very flat-rate responses. I believe that we will be able to complete the Commission by the end of this term and that the conclusions of this Commission will nevertheless respond to at least some of the facts that have taken place in this second part of the project and in the final phase, and that it will also be possible to draw attention to a certain political responsibility. In addition, so that the project could not be stopped at a time when it was actually time, and who had affected that the National Assembly had not received relevant answers given that it had taken specific decisions during that period, which had committed both ministries and the Government to prepare in essence an audit and also on the basis of this further decision on the project as such. We are talking mainly about 2009 and 2010. When the matter reached the implementation and use of most of the funds and when we reached a decision on the guarantee, the train was in some way already delayed, because in all these cases it was companies that were in 100 % state ownership and if the Government had not taken or the Parliament of the Guarantee, in any case the Government or the State would be responsible for the operation of these companies – or, if we say otherwise, taxpayers – would have made these financial arrangements worse for the country than that. As I said, I believe that the Commission will be able to clarify or clarify, to some extent, the circumstances and also certain political responsibilities in this project. However, I also hope that the coalition, which has committed itself to carrying out some independent professional review of this project or revision as such, will also take a step in a particular case.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u199	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report and on the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry. I give the floor first to Mr Matjaž Hanzk, President of the Commission of Inquiry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you for helping the members of the Commission in particular, because everyone added something else to what I did not say, but it is huge to say, because we all know ourselves: hours and hours of interrogation, hours and hours of reports are here. But at least something should be answered, although I agree with most of it. I think my friend Wrotetz specifically said that we still have the key work to do. Indeed, here is the problem and here is the answer why we did not make proposals on the committee. Indeed, Škobrna, a fellow member of the Commission, is also responsible for not giving conclusions because we voted on the Commission that we will not give conclusions, even though they are conclusions, but there are no conclusions to be confirmed by the National Assembly. And that's mostly for one reason. Our commission has the task, as the title already says, of investigating the political responsibility of officials. If we want to determine the political responsibility of the officials, we must first say where, first of all, we must prove ourselves and see that something is wrong. This is what my colleague Škoberna said: “If we know everything, what are we doing?” Of course we all know, but we still need to know from the documents, from the hearings and so on, that we can get political responsibility. Political responsibility, of course, comes from politicians. We haven't even gotten to the hearings of politicians yet. It's not until next month or March that we're gonna question them. That's one explanation. Otherwise, I agree, and I know that it is necessary, and that if we find out who did something illegal or anything illegal, but even more beautiful, and one of the goals that is not necessary is not prescribed by law, of course, that society learns from this project in its entirety. Not to repeat again, again, as is now the case – I will not argue that I have no data, but much is said to be done the same way with other major investments. I think that at least we will have to ask questions, answers a little less, because we are not exactly the biggest experts in these areas – some of us, some are on one side and others – what we need to do in the future to make such investments. One of the questions is whether a country that owns a large company also has the right to interfere, how this company is running, what is doing, what is its project, or whether it has to step down and leave, as has been the case here, that a small number of people are leading an investment in their own way, without the owner being able to intrude and give his opinion at all, except when the 460 million loan guarantees are to be made, of course. Why not sooner and then yes? Second. Who's responsible? Here, at least me and some of my colleagues mentioned the responsibility of experts. [[…]] Many experts, very often we have received answers: What should I do, as the profession has confirmed this to me! As we look at the statements made by some experts by some laymen from various NGOs, we can see that these laymen, the non-experts, were very accurate in predicting the price of coal, and the experts who signed it were very lacking. And a variety of other things! Whether it really takes 600 megawatt block or 400 megawatts. As we have seen at 600 megawatts, it will be at least 15 years if, of course, the sixth block of the Thermoelectrica Šostanj will work all the time, it will work quite nicely for a number of years with two-thirds power. Why do we need a block like this? Because if you were smaller, you could work all the time. But this is not our ultimate goal after all, but someone among the politicians, among the officials, knew, did nothing, or should have known, but looked away. Let's just say that it was conscious, that we've all figured that out, and that's the most accurate thing, and in the same way everyone else has done the same thing. That it was consciously confirmed that the coal would be 2.25, because a few studies said that if it were more expensive, the economy would not come out and then, of course, couldn't build the sixth block, is mainly – my colleagues also said that – most of them had amnesia, they don't know who it is, and we still don't know who it is, in what way. I have here the excuses of Dr Rotnik: "HSE has always said to register in the investment programme a price of 2.25 euros." So, Rotnik was talking about HSE. At HSE, they said that the Coal Mine himself calculated. The coal miner said they were ordered there in short, complete confusion, and no one knows what it's like. [[…]] For example, the longtime director of Velenje mine, Dr. Medved, claims that he has never given a written assurance that the price will not change in construction and that the price was 2.25 considered as the starting price. All those Members who were then in the National Assembly know that it was not signed as a starting price. That it was like a price. True, it is — how difficult it is to investigate who is making it up. Here I have at least 15 different price names: starting, final, in the yard of the power plant, agreed and so on. Totally without the connection to make a special commitment, the main thing is that it's a matter of everyone pulling out, that they're about another price. But if the Government and the National Assembly have requested that they sign that the final price will be 2.25 and if the Director of Coal Velenje signs, "I sign that the price will be 2.25", this is a reliable answer to the question of the final price. Now he says he didn't sign the final price, but that's it. Second, he says he signed the starting price. In Del, he wrote on a comprehensive commercial in 2010: Our price of coal is falling all the way down and we will already arrive at 2.25 euros for gigajoule in 2015 in the yard of the power plant. There's probably a final price in the yard of the power plant, at least for coal energy and so on. It's such a no confusion, it's a planned confusion, at least for me, that we all have a lot to prove. [[…]] Now, whether there are rules of final price or not, so on and so forth. Next, and in a similar way, another work was done. The whole time it was a speech, or all the time from the beginning it was what we originally showed, the program of Dr. Rotnik, director of the Termoelectrica Šostjanj, in 2003, when he planned and wrote that there would be a billion 300 and a few or a billion 400 of all power. Why suddenly this additional energy facility became Block 6 replaced, Dr. Rotnik said that the pierre service advised him to speak at once about the replacement so that everyone else would crash. Now we see that four are still working, and I think, by 2020, the new HSE director says that they will revitalize the fifth block, which was at the time of the construction of the 6th, too expensive to restore, now to be revitalized, and the result is also – this is from his December interview – it says that it will even be possible to import coal again. So whatever you're looking at is constantly changing, changing, and you don't even know how to end this: coal imports are gone, then coal imports are gone, coal imports are gone. And even suggests that the question of whether the 6th block after 2040 will even work, which is now the two or three experts we have interviewed, will also tell us that by 2030-2035. In fact, when asked if there is enough coal and about 10% – oh, see, it is time – to mix imported coal, he says that all data shows enough, and the question is how the stocks will be affected by greater consumption than planned by 2030. All of a sudden, he says: none of those coal plans are valid anymore, but 2030 will be much more, because, of course, Friday will work four more somehow by half. It may be necessary to consider imports after 2030. There's no answer to that right now, because we don't know – listen to this! — whether or not coal technologies will continue to operate after this year. Something scares us that the director of Holding the Slovenian Power Plant as well. [[...]] I just want to point to another story in these number manipulations. Since the beginning, we have all been told that 2.25 has not been achieved for a simple reason, because the NOP 2 shaft has not been made, as it is called, which would reduce transport costs and thus be the price of 2.25. When I went to look at the numbers, the shaft would cost 36 million, and it would bring 82 thousand euros a year. So, a little less than 400 years from now, this shaft would have to operate to cover itself. There'd only be more costs. But now I'm gonna end up because I'm a little too long to stay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u202	Dear Members and Members, good evening We are talking about a typical transition investment, namely an investment financed by public funds and when it comes to public funds, virtually anything is allowed. First of all, an anecdote of how investment, transition, was financed, perhaps by the construction of a highway, which is certainly also very much connected with the construction of this sixth block of the Thermoelectric Company of Šostjanj. I live in a place that was somewhere, say, five to seven kilometers away from the concrete base of the then works on the highway between Vranski and Ljubljana. Of course, since it was a public investment, everyone made every effort to get as much out of it as possible. Even pears drivers have earned and a man cannot believe how much concrete has taken place in those days in our ends and this concrete is at a very favourable price if I make a little joke. But the story of our transition investments goes something like this. Someone imagined that we would go into a major infrastructure project, and from here on out, the policy of implemented facts is working. Those who stand for this and all political decision makers convince the whole public how important this thing is, how much new jobs it will bring and how positive it will have on the economy. TES 6 even convinced us, perhaps even right, how technology will improve significantly and so on. And then we get to a point where they say, "There's no going back." At least as far as TES 6 is concerned, it is clear that at current electricity prices, this sixth will continue to work for all of us, taxpayers, millions of dollars in losses and, of course, we will pay for it. But I would certainly like to stress here the following, but not all go to the same basket. In 2012, the New Slovenia Group was the only parliamentary group that fully opposed the guarantee law and the provision of money for this investment. You don't know how bad it was at the time, the paid pier articles appeared in many media outlets, where we were measured, where they talked about how Tonin fell from the moon, how we have no idea how Slovenia would lose electricity. They even started the machinery and went there like a friend of ours sitting there said, when a little party objected to the money going for that investment. Even our local committee from those parts said, dear friends, if you vote like that in Parliament, then the New Slovenia party in this area is over. Okay. We've moved on. But look at the fragment! Now these same people are telling us from these parts, and now we see that you were right. And now even people come to us and tell us, you know, New Slovenia, but then you were right. I don't want to be smart, I'll tell you what seems essential to me in the findings of this commission of inquiry. I don't want this story to look like another typical Slovenian story, where we all know everything, we all know everything, but nothing happens. And that's what pisses people off makes them unhappy. They say we're all ordinary bastards, that we're all the same, and that makes people unhappy. And here there will have to be some concrete consequences, and at least two things are evident from the universe that something went very wrong. First thing, about the guarantee. Clearly, they lied about the price. I remember the Minister then saying that if the price is 2.25 euros – in front of the power plant, now whether it's the final price or whether it's in the yard or whatever – we're going to move on with this investment. Then the TES gentlemen collapsed for a while and eventually brought the document to this price of 2.25. However, if they were told that 2,20 or 2,15 would write such an assessment, because it was an important and essential goal and they did not care whether they were lying to Members or deceiving them, it is important that they carry the investment forward. And they did. We were warned about these things at the time, and therefore we voted against it. At least it is clear, I would say, if we are trying to direct this parliamentary commission to go from the end; so, from the conclusion, the one who told Parliament that this price would be 2.25, back to where it came from. The whole Parliament, the whole country, was absolutely deceiving that price. It is known from whom the document came to Parliament, and from here I would go back to look, this message to this, this message to this until we get to the origin of this. About the contract. I also think it's clear in the contract that it was written absolutely in Alstom's favor, and if someone doesn't respond to such a bad contract here, then I don't know who else will. But I'll get it over with. I see that the political responsibility for this project is clear – now a lot of people will be angry with me – but political responsibility can be very clearly understood. Just look at the vote sheet who voted in favour of this guarantee law, and here you have political responsibility. If that law were not there, there would be no investment. Pika. And the political responsibility for this investment was then assumed by those Members who voted in favour. For political responsibility, of course, all these Members are responsible to the electorate, here we have nothing, here the voters can say we forgive you for having been misled, or, because you have done so, we will now elect someone else. This is a political responsibility that the electorate will finally take. At least for me, it's pretty clear where to figure it out. Finally, the key thing I'm interested in is criminal responsibility. This is where the court has to make its own. I agree with those who say that at least at the beginning were the very high-flying words of this coalition – I wish you didn't run out of time because there is not much time left for the end of the term to be checked and reviewed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have one correction, Mr. Franz Laj has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u204	President, thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! I will start with this: I really want a successful work for the Commission of Inquiry to come to tangible results and, finally, to justify its functioning and its existence. It would be a shame if we just formed and formed investigative commissions without any results and then epilogues. I'll start with that. Most likely and certainly I am sure that the start of this investment TES 6 goes into the preparation of the investment laboratory. It is clear why an investment laboratory is being prepared; in order to verify professionally whether or not the planned investment is economically justified on the basis of verified grounds. From that point on, decisions leading to the implementation of the investment are followed. I am convinced that the famous authors of this investment laboratory are, and that it is not possible to determine who and how, with what prices and with what basis, with the basis of the calculation, it was prepared by the laboratory, it is not believed and I do not believe it. So much for the committee. I will say so; I hope that, at least if the Commission is putting so much effort into at least finding out whether someone was thinking when they made these decisions, political too, because it is difficult to believe – and I think I almost see a citizen who would believe that such a big project can be implemented or made a decision and that politics is not aware of it or politics is going through politics. I don't think this has anything to do with one reality. But I would also like the following to be determined whether someone was already wondering why he was thinking: either because of his own interests or because of something else. And was that also the reason why the profession collapsed in this case? Since we are most likely to have at least a few experts in our country who can properly, professionally, responsibly prepare an investment laboratory, which, of course then, is the basis for at least expecting that the investment project will also serve its purposes and that it will produce those expected effects, and last but not least are planned within this investment laboratory. I also hope that we will all learn something from this together. That is, there must come a time in our space when there will no longer be a place for such practice, as has happened in this case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare Mr Joseph Horvat and Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, chairman. I've got quite a bit of time, so I'm gonna take it slow. My colleague Tonin described very well what happens to you when you somehow circumcise yourself with the interests of a relatively important lobby. If you fall into parliament, politics first happened to me, then I happened to politics, one first session – we're against privatisation – and they're already telling me who's going to kill me in Maribor. My friend Tonin must have wanted to kill back then with that son of a bitch story or something. We all know what happened to Gregor Golobich, so I won't say it again. In most societies and countries, the energy lobby is one of the most important, if not the most important, lobbying. Which makes a little sense. People are pretty entropy, we need energy. That's a fact. Today we're 23. 1. 2017, the time is 19.20, 21. 1. 2015 Minister Gasperšič said that by the end of 2015 the energy concept of Slovenia will be out. He's not here yet. Who does that fit? Hello! It's probably clear to every child of my age. That's what my colleague Tonin said before, we all know everything, and then we quickly come to the point that we're all the same. No, we're not all the same! In this story, of course, politics likes to communicate with such a strong lobby, some want to take their cake here, and it is somehow very clear that I will not repeat myself – we know which political parties of some old gatherings left, on the right they grabbed this cake. We know that the SMC wants to get into this cake with some experience, and even when we talk about political responsibility, we also need to talk about regional political responsibility. A fellow Member, a former student of mine, said, "Oh, my God, how are we going to get answers?" I'd ask there in Vele, and I'd get an answer! It is clear to all of us that this is some story that has been set up very nicely, that it is some story with which someone will serve little by selling coal. I was also taught a little bit, even if a little bit of basics, coal comes from the ship and you spray it a little bit preventively and it's a little bit harder, and so on – I'm not going to explain some banality here. We all forget that on account of the liquidity of HSE, we will probably run out of Drava power plants in the medium term – and I also hear from recent stories without sonic – if this story continues as it will. The Styrians were talking about this, and then the MPs and the MPs from our coalition end broke up, and the 82nd article of the Constitution could seriously read it and say to Mira, "Wait, boy, now we're not going to vote for you." This would also somehow take the responsibility of Members and Members. In the Slovenian transition – I hope that this speech is slowly over after the fourth century – we have some three key stories. The Americans would say the mother of all affairs is an arms affair, then we have a TES 6, then we have a Taiwanization and a DUTB and a Shirtzla Master who goes somewhere in Scandinavia to some hotel. That's it. These are big stories. And even when people say that you are all the same – for probably a quarter of a century, it is clear to us that we are stealing from ourselves for a quarter of a century. And it is also a responsibility, not only to us 90, who are here, but to all of us, with the right to vote and civil society and experts to think of themselves. The easiest thing to do is to pat over us and then you will choose the same gentlemen again, because they are all the same, everyone is stealing; but this few pears led into our village – if I paraphrase Mr Tonin a little. It's not funny, it's just a mirror we need to set up. Matthew, by the way, usually in these big infrastructure projects, there's about 12 percent of the price going up there, a little bit of infrastructure like this, something about normal. And nothing is so insanely wrong with the fact that already such a pauperized or forgotten local community in this way somehow rises slightly, but we only come up with some key problem of this project and Slovenia for 25 years – control issues. Do we have these supervisors, the supervisory councils, the supervisory boards, whatever we call them, little for decoration, little for people to fix, I don't know, income, or some kind of function to perform? Here is also the responsibility of you and us who co-create this policy, whom we appoint to these functions. What can politics learn from this now? The first is that we need to be more curious about politicians and politicians. I'm probably one of the more liquid on the boards that's always weighing and asking questions. A letter, if I don't know something, I ask! I don't just ask here, I ask in civil society, I ask across the border. Now Matjaž has very nicely told the story. I admit that I was a little bit tough because I knew when this started, when it somehow came to this, because I knew that you were a party to the procedure earlier, I knew we were going to lose one good MP. Lost because it's the only thing he's gonna have to talk to and some of the expertise of some of our experts. Now, it may be a good idea to be back, but we're often too curious here. For example, I always tend to be there on that EU Affairs Committee with my Premur colleague. Sometimes I feel like there's an EU directive that says, I don't know, let's roll our left knee, lift our hats and go home because it's Friday. And that's not funny, I'm sorry. I'm afraid that's how it works. I've already mentioned the responsibility of supervisors. One important issue here, however, is the demitoligation of experts. After all, I'm also an expert in some area, whatever you think, I've been working on some inter-transciplinary blah teams. Experts do not live there in some towers — walled, objective. There are people like that and different, with interests, maybe someone with a credit problem up and down, you know. And serious lobbyists from such powerful lobbyists can also search here and find someone who is more suitable or unresponsive. Here too, the professions must somehow adjust the mirror. In this session we have some laws that are not exactly proud of the legal profession, let alone constitutional lawyers. If I tell you a case that I hope you will understand. Of course, Parliament is not the third branch of power and will not play this role now played by the Court in Celje in this, I hope, particular case. What Parliament can do is, out of all this Sherlock Holmes crap comes somehow to one spaghetti who's actually responsible for it. Everything with which political groups prevents this. But the responsibility of all of us is, as Matthew said, whether we forgive these people again or not, we will admit them to a similar trough or not. It's this new policy that I, unfortunately, don't see in this coalition yet, and it's some kind of science, probably, of this story. I hope that in 10 years, whoever is already sitting here will not deal with similar stories of NEK 2, second track, or anything else, although, frankly, I must say how all things run, that I am not such a crazy optimist, and I hope that before summer we will get the final energy concept of Slovenia, which we will seriously overwhelm here. It's written by the interests of the energy lobby, but it's our responsibility to get away from it here. In Austria, I talked a lot about going to their local communities, which have a very well-split energy self-sufficiency programme, and I said how it was, because the energy lobby didn't just agree to it. They said, yes, of course we've been fighting for 20 years. But at some point, politics must also become so smart that it understands what battles are going on, and to establish some of the marginal conditions that such practices as TES 6, which the gentleman mentioned repeatedly, Rotnik still claims that "it would be guided transparently and economically" – the end of the quote – will no longer be possible. And that's kind of it. Above all, the curiosity of politicians, the responsibility of supervisors, the auto-reflexion of the profession, and even after a quarter of a century, the final realization that we should stop stealing and harassing those who actually work the hardest for bad incomes, and now you will reduce their professional pensions as much as possible – knaps. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I want to take us all together first on that July, I think he was 18. 2012 when we discussed and voted on the guarantee law for TES 6 at EUR 440 million. Four of our then colleagues, Srečko Meh, Mirko Brulc, Sam Bevk and Jožef Kavticnik, signed this law and I must say that at the time of the hearing, there was quite a rumble on the left side. As Members of New Slovenia have said, we were among those 20, and we were the entire parliamentary group that voted against this guarantee law. 29 Members supported this law. In a way, these four gentlemen are each responsible for €110 million today. Mr President, I will not criticize your leadership of the investigative commission, but I would like, given that we are both aware that we are in the last third, maybe a quarter of this term, it would be good to direct matters by writing down criminal charges on the target. Those who listened well to the hearings and now return to November, November 12th 2015 was when we had one of the biggest mining experts in Slovenia at the hearing, which actually told everything. Look at that magnetogram, and I will avoid all names in my debate, and this gentleman said that the price of coal from Velenje Coal is 2.25 euros for gigajoules and that it is not real that it is too low. This gentleman led Coal Velenje in 1992-2002, in 2002 I think they may have achieved even the best results in the wider time frame and in 2002 they reached the price, about, I will now say, under 2.5, I think 2.45 euros for gigajoule, not 2.25. But his successors signed a contract, it's written in a contract, and it's written on an invoice, so I don't care what that price is, whether it's original or whatever. This is the price on the invoice, this price was paid by Coal Velenje. And he got too low. This price does not allow research, does not allow the safety of buttons – nobody talks about it today. So, someone's been digging into the fact that they're actually questioning the safety of miners. That's worrying. And of course, these big lobbyies, because it was not just one, one of the lobby's was that the TES 6 buildings were still being built and that then it was going to import coal, today it was talking about Indonesian goods and so on, and of course there were boys, and perhaps even girls, saw their commissions and especially a lot of money. Thus, Coal Velenje, which was aware by 2002 that investments in thermal energy facilities were questionable and non-profitable, also wrote in all the strategic documents that Coal Velenje shut down there in 2027. Now this has changed and the lifespan of Coal Velenje extends to 2054. At that time, before 2002, there were also debates at that time to build a block of 6 with a power of 200 megawatts and to start operating this year, 2017, and then build another block of 7 with the same power that would start operating in 2027. What I'm trying to say is that the then management of Velenje Coal was actually somehow hiding this investment in thermal energy facilities. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, I am, of course, a reserve member or alternate member of the commission of inquiry, I suggest that you are another hearing, read this hearing and you will learn a lot. At that time, this gentleman, with excellent business results in 2002, had to leave because he had been stabbed; the interests of the LDS challenged him. That's what he said, and you'll be able to read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Jan Škoberne. Here you go, Mr. Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! This interim report on the responsibility to build the largest project in the Republic of Slovenia, TŠ 6, gives already in the intermediate phase to the menu and anyone who somehow gets deeper into this report can now quite clearly picture. If I make a grave assessment, I am sure that this was a case of extremely poorly managed investment, both from the beginning, from planning itself and to the very end of construction. For only a decision on such an investment, that is to say, in the construction of a thermal power plant, there are three essential elements. This is said to be the basic raw material, what is the stock of this raw material, in this case coal, what is its burning value and what is the price. These are the essential basic three data on which it is indeed necessary to decide to continue the eligibility of this investment. I can say about these basic three data that only one information was correct and correct — what is its burning value. This was the correct assessment, which was estimated at 10 gigajoules per tonne. In case we look at the other two data on coal stocks, it must be said that before the decision on the construction of TES 6, that is to say block six, the mine had a plan and a decision on the closure of the mine in 2028 so that the stocks would be reduced so that the operation of the mine after 2028 would no longer be viable. This was already a known information, but because I call it that, in the case of this energy supply lobby, the data had to be organised to demonstrate the eligibility of the investment also from a financial point of view on the entire line and, of course, a new coal use programme is being prepared here and is extended until 2054. This is said to justify this exploitation for a quarter of a century, with a new document, even with a deficit of 10 per cent, which means 10 million tonnes with the purchase of quality black coal. That's saying, it's already going here for, I'd say, a data event that this justification is somehow justified. Of course, the most problematic and most misleading is the pricing, and I can say, all the time since the first investment programme that was created – where we know that the value was 692 million – 6 NIPs have been produced. The NIP means a reduction for the amendment of the investment programme, which was made up of six to the value of a billion 440 million, where the investment has been renovated mainly and where it has been modified, I would say to the mining management, because it is doubtful that the price of coal was determined by the mine, the specific management of the mine. This is the fact and excuses of this price, of their price and of other prices, no one else can determine the price of coal than the mine itself. Of course, in the various amendments to the investment programme, the price of 2.25 is conditioned and justified in different ways. Also under additional conditions, additional construction of an import shaft, reduction of employees outside the cave, management of subsidiaries and so on. But this is not an integral part of the price, because the price was signed by the mine and given to the debate or also in 2012 in the National Assembly, where the Members decided on the guarantee. This is a fact and, in fact, there is no liability by the management of the mine. I'd say more. In the preparation of the guarantee law and on grounds of justification, a document has been proposed where additional annual savings have been calculated, but on the basis of these savings it will be possible to achieve this investment 2.25. And if we play with mathematics a little bit, even these annual savings, which were calculated at 29 million or 26 million a year, we don't get these savings at 2.25. We're running out of $3 million. So those who modified this data did not properly calculate or, I would say, did not lead us to a complete number that would provide this price of 2.25. And what the chairman himself warned the Commission; this entitlement to build an additional export shaft with annual savings would also be restored within 400 years. I mean, such a document came to the table even in the parliamentary bench when we decided to guarantee the state for this investment. In short, misleading the management of the mine to the extreme; to the extreme, misleading about the price itself. Such a price could not be achieved in 2002 or between construction and later. There are also some key points to be drawn from the report itself. Today, it has been pointed out that there is a lot of data, a lot of contradictory statements by witnesses who have been interviewed, which have been very large, but certain facts are clear and visible, in which they cannot actually be followed. The contract between the Italian Power Plant and Alstom was signed without the approval of the Supervisory Council. If we look at this contract; this contract is, I would say, very riskyly placed at the thermal power plant, the terms of the contractor itself, are unclear to Alstom. Neither does the contract with the contractors themselves stand with the full support of the profession, because even professional shortcomings can be found much. As a result, investment in investment programmes itself has been repeatedly undermined. As a result, a large part of the facilities and facilities were not initially included in the price. It is said that part of the investment has also grown rightly, but this is due to a poorly managed project at the beginning. Similarly, the project group was formed after the work on the project was already under way. Then it's a matter of public procurement. See, it is extremely strange that even the euro of the business in this investment did not receive the largest public-owned consulting and engineering company, then the DDC, today DRI, did not gain State importance in this biggest investment. There is no investment in the Republic of Slovenia in which a state-owned engineering company would not participate. This is the only investment in which the largest engineering company in the state has not participated. Not to mention other broadcasts for individual units, both construction, advisory, engineering, consulting and so on. Of course, there was some confusion about responsibility, especially in the second part of the investment process there was also a lot of change in management. This is just to make a certain responsibility blur and then come to tell you not to say an excuse to each other – yes it was, it wasn't in my time, it was already before and so forth, but I would say that, when a thorough examination is done, the responsibility of management can be determined. I believe that the Commission, in this second part, will somehow narrow down all these irregularities and that, after all, for such deliberate misdirection of such a policy and, I would say, forging professional data to actually face the issue of responsibility. Because it's big money, it's very big money. Of course, we all know that this is about the money of us taxpayers, and regardless of the value itself, regardless of the size, there is a need to act honestly, properly, responsibly everywhere. Therefore, every management is set up for this purpose, including the management of the Velenje Lignite Mine as well as the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I listened with interest to the whole discussion, and in particular to the work of the Commission itself for the past two years, given that it started its work with a decision – I think that on 30 January 2015 – and practically two years have passed since the Commission has been doing its work. In fact, there is an interim report before us, which I must say I expected more, frankly. In particular, because if the work of this commission goes as slowly as it does for the first two years, then I think that this commission will finish its epilogue as it has done all the commissions so far. This means that it will not complete the work, we will not adopt the conclusions, we will not find political responsibility. Maybe there's a report there, but it'll end infamously, and it'll be over. I don't want to be critical of criticizing here and there, but above all, I have a feeling that I have read all the hearings, I have even looked at some, I have read the interim report very carefully, and more importantly – in the previous term we have had few meetings on this subject, and today I am sad to see how in fact we are looking at the whole story and just finding that it is one of the missed projects, as they were, and that is all. But no one speaks – even colleague Jože said, "I won't talk about names. I don't know why we shouldn't talk about names; the names are very clear, because they're written in here, you know exactly who's been interrogated and so on. The President's opening statement said that this first part was intended primarily to see around the value of this price or the project itself, where a complete basis should be known, if later we want to identify political responsibility. However, in this report, in fact, given that the witnesses have been questioned, not only the State secretaries, the directors, but also the politicians have been questioned. At the end of the stage Kontič was neither the director nor the secretary of state, but he was a very large and decisive figure political and is still a great political figure in the Valley today. Then there is Srečko Meh, who was last Member and was mayor of Velenje and, last but not least, brought to the National Assembly this guarantee law, which we all speak of today. In fact, in the very hearing I read, the happy Mehu did not even ask why it was brought to the National Assembly. Interesting! He asked the then State Secretary, who was responsible – or director of the Directorate – not to confuse these functions – and he explained something, and Mr Golob explained something very precisely how it went. But not around the law itself – Lucky Meh, is it? But he talked a great deal about the history and importance of the people and the inhabitants of the Shale Valley and how many municipalities there are and how hard the miners are doing and how much the place was essentially dependent on mining and jobs and so on. We all know that. Last but not least, all of us who have lived for at least 50 years know something, but we have also read something, and we have learned something. But of course, all of this can't be history, it can't be an excuse for a billion 400 million missed investments. It can't be! And I don't know why we're talking about this here, or whether we're going to figure out who had political responsibility – but we all know to say the following: we know exactly when it was time to withdraw this project. We can say, perhaps even after 2009, that, and even from an interview or hearing, this information may even be made possible by large lobbying and conversation with the French at the highest level, we may still be able to stop the project conditionally, and no one has actually done so! When he came to me, and I was then the leader of the largest parliamentary group, Happy Meh, in the office with this proposal, that was our decision. [[…]] Look, there's a guarantee bill on one sheet of paper, that's all! It's got six articles in it. And he asked for my support. My question was only one: why are you suggesting this, why not propose to the Government? 400 million guarantees, I apologize, a Member comes to the National Assembly and discusses this. Today, colleague Tonin said that all those who supported this law would be responsible or responsible. Of the 90 Members, Jože mentioned the number, 29 for, 20 for, and the quorum was 59. It is said that less than one third of Members have decided that this guarantee law is moving forward. Why am I stopping at his place so much? Because 400 million guarantees went so easily through the National Assembly, and only in every firm in every management! Not to mention the secretaries of state and, of course, the policy which, of course, has taken place in a non-chalant manner! How did block 6 come to be? Block 6 was created by collecting offers and some kind of planning for the Janša government 2004-2008 – I mean nothing wrong with this – which projects would be worth running and running and so on. At the time, the rains were different, as you remember that project island that the mayor of Popovic had there in Koper, and similar things were falling like ideas at the time. And among other things, the idea was to go to the sixth block. But, excuse me, today I have heard the words: I hope we will learn something from this missed investment. In this same hearing, you can hear the Gob telling you that we already had block 6 with block 3 — a totally similar situation. You know, it's about like when you go shopping for a car. You say at home, I have 20,000 euros at my disposal, so I can take credit, I don't know anything, and you choose a car worth 20,000 euros, either used, new, irrelevant. But when you come to the store, it's interesting, you always come home with the idea of a car for 24 thousand euros; because that supplement is still, I don't know, something nicer and better I'll squeeze a little bit more and maybe I'll get it. But in the end, there's a car for $26,000. And this kind of thing kind of seems to me to be buying or dealing with this block six. For the first time it was foreshadowed, it was discovered from the hearing itself, and the fact is that the jesting lobby essentially carved it out; and this systematically. We don't have anything warm to detect here! I don't know why it's been so slow since the beginning. If he brought 400 million guarantees to the members of the National Assembly — just like that. My friend, I didn't understand Ljubo very well. I didn't understand whether he supported this sixth block or not, because at the time the SDS voted against it. The only person who voted in favour was Ljubo. But that already tells us what the problems were because individuals were divided. There was a special coalition that had nothing to do with the SDS, the left, the right, the red, the white, but it was very clear that in some circle of the Shale Valley, those who were from that end sniffed because they knew that they should not come home with the fact that they would say they had not voted in favour of the guarantee law. Who would blame them, only the devil is created in detail! Four Members signed first, and in the end the guarantee law even succeeded, of 90 Members. While the government's opinion, because when I asked why the government didn't come with this proposal, of course Lucky didn't know how to answer that question. But it's interesting when we read the government's proposal. That's when you know which government she was, and the government gave -- you know, that's one of those special opinions when you don't say no to me, no, no. You're not saying anything, but you're listing everything that's not there, and in the end, you know, it's a very important sentence in the fourth paragraph that says the following. Watch it! “As a result, the costs have already been invested in the project and potential compensations due to the withdrawal from the contracts already concluded are too high for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw from the project.” We're in! She didn't say yes. She didn't say we understood each other. She didn't say anything, we support this guarantee law, we don't support it. Finally, he lists a number of conditions that the government will have to do if this guarantee law is to be passed. Who was the minister who was responsible for this work back then, we know. Energy was on the economy. Who in the country always decides when it comes to guarantees or needs to know how they drive these things? Minister of Finance. And who else contributed to the fact that, of course, he was giving his perspective and perspective on these questions? Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment. I am not saying who defined himself for yes/no, because this document does not make this clear. However, the fact is that in fact, given that we received from the hearing information that practically within one week a guarantee law was prepared, that one of the directors said that he had to prepare a proposal for the government in one week, it is more than clear that this Lucky Meh as a Member did not write it himself, but they wrote it in HSE. HSE needed this. Why did he need this guarantee? He needed it for one reason because he knew that, if this went on like that, he wouldn't be able to finish that investment and he needed money or someone would go to hell. And he needed this document or cover. Last but not least by the fact that the policy has turned on the green light and to the end and unconditionally that this project must be implemented to the end. On the other hand, it is also noted from the hearings that it has been preparing all the time in the Shaleska Valley to go into the mine closure, at the same time preparing to solve the employment problem. But the devil is back in the details, there were companies that were tied to coal or to the mine or to their business and so on. And if the mine closes, what will these companies do if they no longer actually have the main customer or these cross-service activities? We know what the companies were up to. The mayors say the local community didn't have any of this. Moreover, even the following sentence says that they are still sorry that they have not received a measure or compensation for what is taking place there. But we all know that the Valley of jester lived on this very activity. Don't talk to me! Equipment, indirect costs, payment of services, from newspapers to not know what else details, practically lived politics, the local community or, I will say, the social sphere also from sponsoring contracts precisely on this account. So to say she didn't have any of this, I find it extremely perverse. We talk about social responsibility, it sounds better; but what you do, you earn, you put it back in the environment and so on. That's why today: I'm sorry my colleague Scobernet isn't here today, because he'd probably be diametrically speaking the opposite of me, something else because he's coming from other places – otherwise he's a purely fascist guy – but we won't get caught up in this. So today I feel like talking about not actually having names — that is not true! We have names, we have ministers, we have minutes of meetings of the government, we have strategic documents, and we finally have magnetograms of the National Assembly, what all the ministers or state secretaries have been defending and explaining, not least, the NIP and all the other measures. But it is true that you always end up putting on a scale and saying what it is now, or that Slovenia will lose that source of energy that you can – as I say – without wind, without sunlight, you can turn on and smoke at any time. I'm sorry, but we've had quite a few discussions in the National Assembly, and we've often found that some countries have also built a nuclear power plant, but never started because they've either found out for such or other reasons that they won't have one. Today I wonder, since I don't know when they've found in the Valley of Shale, that it's really necessary to start closing or thinking about what and how this town and this place or this valley will actually live. Of course it's important information! But what have we done so far to be able to restructure? Apart from Gorenje, who came there, we do not actually have any concrete serious steps, except for those sister or daughter companies that worked directly for the mine, we have no serious plans and we do not know today; yet, they even say that they can work until 2050! Are we making fun of everyone? In addition, I am interested in the environmental aspect – PM10. That’s what we all talk about — it’s irrelevant to the Valley of Shale. I don't hear any of these reasons today. In these documents, we can also read one thing that, not least of all, people living in this neighborhood, I think that – I mean – in 1987 they resisted because of the very ecological disasters, because we know that everything was a little different then than it is today. Today, these standards have been raised and so forth, but they themselves have found that ecological rehabilitations have been completed, but it is still not what should really be in this end in order to be able to talk about the real healthy, safe life we live in in this end. Last but not least, it is the responsibility of each government and national assembly to ask what it will do to this valley of the Shale. I don't believe it. I don't believe it. For the past two months, I have been hearing that we will be paying some supplement to prepare in energy some special supplement that will, in fact, be nothing more than that we will all Slovenians and Slovenes or electricity users actually pay some difference if it happens, like some kind of reserve fund, to solve this end. Excuse me, no! Why?Oh, my God! Tell me, why?Oh, my God! I don't understand that! I'd understand if you closed the mine, you'd understand that this is some kind of arrangement, and then we'd go on with some solidarity and stuff. But for someone to have a big investment and then a loss, and then we'll cover it – sorry, I'm just not going! I don't think even in energy they have the right to think like that. Have them find money somewhere else. They can find him anywhere they want! Of course, but I know it's much easier to speak from my position here today than to translate it into reality. I'm aware of that. It's not all black and white, it's all borderline or multi-layer, it sounds better. But in the end, we have to ask ourselves after homework. The National Assembly adopted a decision on the Commission of Inquiry. Matthew said well in the beginning, people are tired of getting results in the end. I completely agree here. I am also personally fed up with the fact that, apart from one commission of inquiry in the National Assembly, no commission has really come to an end. That doesn't count, you know you're filing a report, and then it's never dealt with again. This was then done in the end — was it not? This must be considered, adopted by a decision, etc. etc. Only one investigative commission has done its homework so far, and this has done so in record time, not in four years. We're talking about freebies, so we can know which committee I'm talking about. She's done her job. Unfortunately, there is one problem; the conclusions are secret, closed and locked in the National Assembly and no one can see them, and today the public does not know who is responsible for the free. So sometimes you have to ask yourself, where does that even go? President, one of the colleagues from that pay phone said it was your responsibility to lead this committee forward. I will add: the responsibility lies with all members of the commission, but it is true that you are the conductor of this commission. And the orchestra is for one piece of shit, if the conductor's bad, they could be the top musicians in there. So I suggest you, given that you've set yourself a goal after some stages, that you really speed up quickly because time will catch you, or you don't hunt anymore. That's the problem. I know that this is a lot of material, I know that you've had to prepare for a long time to win the stuff, read it, you can sit down in the basement all day long and read everything you've got, you know, because one fine feature of all those who fall into the investigation committee is that they know that they have to bring you at least two trucks of paper and throw a bunch of paper away so that you don't know where to look anymore. [[…]] Hence, such things may need to be probed and overlooked. Don't deal with history anymore, don't deal with the price, because you won't get there, you'll figure that out, just start with political responsibility. The director is not a political figure, the director cannot be politically responsible. The Director can only be in the dark if he's committed irregularities and illegality. It is the politician who will bear political responsibility, and my dears, these can only be ministers, state secretaries – and they are conditional – and then MPs, mayors, and then it ends. We do not have anything to find out where to find these people or this political responsibility! Unless you find out there's no political responsibility. As far as memory goes, you know, everyone's learned one thing from investigators. At first, their pants shook when they first came to the investigative commission many years ago, and now one thing got used to them. They must say that they no longer remember anything and that everything is in the archives – because you have the documentation available, see and so on. This is very dangerous. It is dangerous because it really means a high responsibility, and this is what I have warned and also suggested that the National Assembly should adopt it as soon as possible, to agree to amend the Rules of Procedure and the Law on Commissions of Inquiry. In fact, if we want to go to a serious investigative committee, we also need serious experts and a machine to work with. These cannot be professional colleagues, but secretaries who work here and deal with the records with conclusions, and I don't know what else, but they have to be serious experts. This is what Logar already talked about when he was getting into a very demanding bank hole project, and this is this flaw that I see now at TES, and that is why these things need to be changed. There's no discussion here. If the National Assembly takes a decision on the Commission of Inquiry, it has to get an entire army of people who are going to bury themselves seriously and seriously prepare things because it cannot do politics. Since politicians do not have the necessary skills, they have no conduct, they can only coordinate and identify, lead and so on. This way, of course, we can reach the goal. So seriously, President, I don't know if you really knew what awaits you when you agreed to be president of this commission. But so far, as far as I can see, except for two interrogations, no one has really told you anything. Nothing, except that they were others. That's what they used to say. Everyone else said it was the others, it was the others, it was the ones who were above me and so on. If that is what the profession is saying, then the secretaries of state, and the management, let alone the politicians! The politician is an expert in telling you what will happen in a month and a year from now, and he will be able to explain to you very nicely why this has not happened, what he told you will happen. And that's the problem that awaits us. So I can support in good faith that any of this is going to happen, but I'm afraid it's going to be hard to get something out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mrs Maruš Škopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u214	Thank you, Vice President. Because I don't have much time. Very quickly. 98% I agree with the predecessor: the names are known, we know what the beginning of the story is, the price of coal or lignite and the amount dug up. Today we listen, at least those who follow these fairs of this commission of inquiry, lies, memory loss and accountability from one to the other, but the fact is real: the joke lobby is already under Dr. Janez Drnovšk's late master before 2004, began to dream about this project. By 2008, dreams were allowed because they were high electricity prices in the world, the need for electricity was both with us and with our surroundings and we tried to replace the remaining more controversial environmental projects with this TES 6, the sixth block. Then came the year 2009 when someone came to get a guarantee of some value that we can only dream about in other projects today. What do I think the epilogue of this commission of inquiry will be, unfortunately? I fear that nullity, so much as political responsibility, is very bad in terms of criminal responsibility. Probably, though, we are looking forward to the so - called TEM 6 tax, or some call it Rotnik’s tax, or some other tax, which is a new contribution to the prioritization or the mechanism. [[Incomprehensible]] In short, the delusions of the toilet lobby will be paid by all taxpayers. Wrong world.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u216	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. TER 6 is a topic that I think we will consider for quite some time, probably for generations of politicians to come after us. Not because it would be a successful visionary project, but because it is a mistake to plan the energy future of Slovenia. I agree in part with those who say that the thermal power plant — such as it is — is also this block that they are needed to some extent. However, if we see trends in energy around the world, across Western Europe, across northern Europe, it is more than obvious that there is as much investment as there was in TES 6 and in fossil fuels, in fact completely contrary to where Europe is going. If we look at Denmark, Germany, Portugal, the other Western European countries – Austria is also trying somehow – it is more than obvious that these countries are going towards planning their energy future in some way towards wind energy consumption, some also hydropower, perhaps a little less in recent years, then photovoltaics and so on. It is also heard that development is going in the direction of somehow planning, I will say, providing, storing energy somewhere on a personal level, in private houses and that in fact the future will be such that the houses will have both their electricity production and the storage of electricity. I do not hope to predict how successful this technology will be and how fast, but I believe and all trends show that development in this direction is, in fact, inevitable. And in this light, it is so much more worrying that we recently decided to use fossil fuels in a way that is defined by the construction of TES 6. It is said that we have consciously decided to go to a project that is increasingly less acceptable to the environment. The more I will say, the awareness of greenhouse gases is awakening, the more obvious it is that such projects are the past, not the future. In this future, when we should develop Slovenian energy towards renewable energy sources, we will be wondering how to settle the debts arising from this project and today we are considering one of the reports that will try to somehow unlock the political influence and political action at the time of the formation of this investment. It follows from the report itself that a large part of the report is intended to determine this price and to manipulate the price of lignite. I believe that this is an important issue in the final study of the political aspect of this investment, but it seems to me that the Commission should go as soon as possible in the direction of research into public procurement legislation and procedures, as there are warnings in this direction that the procurement was not as defined by the legislation and by law. It follows from the media that certain warnings have also been given in this regard, and these are such warnings that may even be most alarming in this respect. Of course, it is not a political decision, unless someone has complied with the provisions of the law that was in force, we must understand that it is a criminal responsibility. I hope the perpetrators will also await this criminal epilogue of theirs. Now, from the recent media, there is something to be heard in this direction that matters should go into the forecasting process, but it seems that even possible abandonment, perhaps the adoption of some better legislation in this area can be linked to this investment; hence, these procedures are easier, less transparent and ultimately at the expense of all citizens. I wish this thing would get its epilogue. Not just to learn something, I think we already have. Also in order to know how Slovenia should act in future similar ways, at least in the amount of money for similar projects. There's a second track ahead of us. And it is also interesting to monitor the pressures that come from local communities, businesses, Luke Koper, not least. We had meetings on our working body, on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, all in this sense, why this investment has not yet taken place. In doing so, I am afraid, I will say, the absence of this consideration, or the pressure to make things happen faster and perhaps with less thought, with what means. I also want to say that in such investments there are often manipulations about what the real value of investments is. It is heard that the second track can be built for 600 million, even 300 million euros. Now some people think they're worth 400 million. I'm in favour of having some real, real value from the start. I think that we should also have it in the case of TES 6, but it was more than obvious and I believe that some people knew this very well that this project would not be built for this money and that, I will say, this lower price was actually just a trick to make it easier to make a political decision where it was going. I don't think that's gonna happen again. However, this is also my call for all those who participate in decisions on similar projects to think carefully about every matter that is being dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Marusha Škopac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. In fact, the interim report of the Investigative Commission on TES 6 focused on three points at the price of coal, on sufficient amounts of coal and on the burning value. As regards the burning value, more or less all witnesses have stated that the burning value corresponds to the intended burning value, recorded or agreed. Sufficient amounts of coal have been questioned. The two are in fact based on two facts; for the first time, that the mine was originally envisaged to close in 2028, since coal stocks would then be used and then, with the arrival of Block 6, the extension of the mine's operation by 2054 was foreseen. The next issue, which raised doubts about the sufficient amount of coal, was the change in the energy permit, which at the same time changed the operational power, the power of block 6 from 500 megawatts to 600 megawatts, and the energy permit also stated that TES 6 could import up to 10 percent of the coal. Thus, at some point it was anticipated that coal, lignite will not be sufficient for the entire life-cycle of TES 6. The price of coal. As regards the price of coal, we have, in fact, heard all the directors of the Velenje Coal Mines from 1992 until today. The statements were very different. From the principals. That is, from the director of Dr. Franc Žerdin, who was the director until 2002, who claimed that the price of 2.25 was not realistic and not achievable, and that even at the time he was the director of the Premogovnika, this price was never actually achieved. This was justified by the fact that the price of 2.25 does not allow Coal Velenje to operate normally, it is said that it does not allow investment, it does not allow profit to be generated and it does not allow the long-term survival of Velenje Coal. The next interesting testimony about the price of coal was the testimony of Mr Pohorc, who also said that he believed that the price of 2.25 for gigajoule was unrealistic and unattainable. Above all, his conviction was very interesting why this price was unattainable. This is because 70 per cent of coal prices represent labour costs and only 30 per cent of coal prices represent other costs at which it was actually built to reduce them. For this reason, Mr Pohorc believes that this price was never, in fact, ever attainable. In contrast to him, Dr. Milan Medved argued that this price was achievable and, last but not least, Dr. Medved also signed a statement as Director of Coal Velenje, in which the management of Pregogovnik Velenje committed that the entry price of the domestic energy provided for in NIP 4 of 2.25 euros per gigajoule would not exceed these values for the entire period of operation of TES 6. As regards the price of coal, it has often been argued that the achievement of the target price is also dependent on investments in Coal Velenje, which, as the most important investment, exposes the construction of the NOP II export shaft, but it has been shown that the investment itself in the construction of this cave is worth about EUR 26 million, with the mine creating a savings of only EUR 83 000 per year. Thus, the coal mine Velenje would be reimbursed for its investment in the NOP II within four hundred years. It was clear that they had given up this investment and that there was no export shaft today. Here I agree with the findings of the Commission and all colleagues that the price of 2,25 was, in fact, that price which allowed the TES project 6 to demonstrate profitability and performance and on the basis of which Members were then somehow convinced to support the guarantee law and a successful project in the future. The fact that the price of 2,25 was unrealistic and unattainable was, in fact, confirmed by Coal Coal Velenje and also publicly recognised in 2014, when Ernst & Young made a specific audit in which the following findings were made. In order to create a loss of EUR 8.4 million in 2017 at a sales price of 2,25 per gigajoule in 2017; to generate a cumulative loss of almost EUR 110 million in 2016 to Velenje with a lower price adjustment; to create a loss despite the creation of the company, despite the reduction in the number of employees and despite the reduction of costs at the annual level by around EUR 12.7 million. The conclusion of the special audit of Ernst & Youngje was, of course, that the company at the price of coal could not operate with profit. Today and in 2015 the price at which Pregolovnik Velenje sold coal to TEŠ was EUR 2.75 per gigajoule. It should be noted that there is still some discrepancy between the NIPs and the documents of the Velenje Coal. The NIPs provided for the operation of block 6 or envisaged the operation of block 6 to 2054, with the second half of its life-cycle block 6 operating only with half-power. On the other hand, the Coal Document of Velenje notes or notes that Coal Velenje cannot operate in a profitable manner if the mining is less than 4 million tonnes of coal per year, that, of course, some adjustments and additional investments would allow Coal Velenje to operate in a period of time with a quantity of 3 million tonnes per year, and in no way and never can the Coal of Velenje operate at the expected excavation of 2 million tonnes per year. So if block 6 is going to start operating in the middle of its lifetime with half-power, that means that Coal Velenje will have to close at that moment, because it will not operate in a profitable way and will create major losses.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the representative of the proposalr, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. Too bad my friend Jani isn't here, but considering he reads it all anyway, that's what it's gonna be. I thank everyone for their support and, above all, for the warnings, I think that the warnings were very much in place, including Janie's or especially Janie's, and all those who spoke about the time. Maybe it was a little incomprehensible, Jani said we were working phased. It's true, we're doing it step-by-step, but we're not doing one stage, and then the other, or the third. When we're interrogating and studying and when we're doing this, we've been getting information about all the others, all three of them; about all the other three sets that we've been looking at. Thus we are more or less much towards the end, we have scheduled hearings there by the end of March; perhaps we will repeat some when we see, maybe we will avoid them, and then we can write more or less. We were also aware of this on the committee that we were being pushed, and we were also being thrown into a crowd of documents. If we read it all in a row, probably three times as long if we had it at our disposal as we have it now, it wouldn't be enough. That's how we really worked, probed, and looked for the documents we needed. Clearly, though, you still have to do something else. To conclude: there are many things that need to be repeated, but would only stop at that. It is true that when the criminal responsibility is that there are many things that point to it when it is not only a responsibility, but when the court decides and orders and punishes the people who have done so, then experts, those who have led the investment, or politicians, will in fact have enough of our work or we will have the goals that we have set for ourselves. However, it is true that our commission can, only if criminal responsibility is reached, let us keep this in mind because other institutions have done so, and we will certainly, I am sure, be finished before the end of our term of office. I hope that those investigating – the police, the court, the prosecution – will take a little step forward. I hope with our help, too. That's it for now. I think we'll see each other soon with the next reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u221	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired and since no one has expressed any interest in the debate, in addition to the interim report at the closed meeting, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. So, if there's still a wish, then of course we have a one-time application, I'll let you sign in. If the applicant wishes to speak, he shall also be entitled to apply. Please sign up. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u222	Thank you, Madam Vice President, once again for your word. I listened attentively to today's debate, and I think that for us working on the committee, it was useful, but I have heard a lot of conclusions that do not have some real basis. However, I would like to point out that our hearings so far have not been as empty as some think, and it is difficult to start with political responsibility, first of all to know about the project, to get to know some of the facts, but it is true that these facts are slowly being lied down, as the President of the Commission said, and in parallel, when we heard this section and the business part of the story, we also received indications where to explore further, where to look for also responsibility at the political level and where to find also those reasons why a particular part of the project might have been mismanaged, faltered and so on. As far as criminal liability is concerned, there have been a lot of complaints in the past, and here in the Commission we expect certain things to have moved from those basic complaints to some investigative process. Last but not least, when we received the guarantee, we had a statement by the directors on how many complaints were launched by the management of both the TES and the HSE, but obviously nothing is new from this address. He spoke about the guarantee and how the guarantee law was quickly brought to the National Assembly. He may have forgotten that the guarantee law was twice in the procedure or lobbying in the National Assembly; already in 2011 and apparently in 2012 someone simply made copies of pasta and brought the matter back to the decision and to the parliamentary bench. When we also ask decision makers and so far state secretaries and directors of the Directorates, they say that the project was initially linked to a business environment, that it was a project of "private investor law" and so on and that they had no influence. From this point of view, things are slowly coming together. Finally, in all these companies the ownership of the state and thus the responsibility of individual decision-makers. Last but not least, we have found that individual congregational references have been prepared by the Energy Directorate, so that this link in the follow-up and decision-making of individual steps will certainly be interesting. But these are the most interesting leaps of new investment programmes, which certainly had to have some coverage even in a wider one, I will tell the policy. Above all, this leap from billions to billions of 400 at some point was very high. In this regard, the Commission is likely to receive replies from both State secretaries, ministers and, last but not least, government presidents, who will be invited below. I am also of the opinion that there is a lot to be learned from this case, but it is hard to believe and hear that someone could only, on the basis of what this report has read, make some exact conclusions, as some have already tried. Certain facts need to be taken into account, as they are in the documents and as they are said, and we cannot doubt every matter before we see them, hear them and document them. That is how much work remains to be done, but I believe that we will succeed in this spring work through all the hearings and that we will also prepare a final report by the end of the year on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and note that the National Assembly took note of the Interim Report on the quality of stocks and the purchase price of coal for investments in TES Block 6. The assembly will decide on the essential findings within half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby interrupt the 17th item of the agenda and the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 21.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-23-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u224	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 1. 2017. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 3. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present, 47 votes in favour and one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS's parliamentary groups to Article 22. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 19 votes against and 44 votes against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the draft law already proposed, in the introductory explanation of the draft law, that the State Assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 5. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. 3rd reading of the bill will take place on Wednesday, 25. 1. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the articles to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding censorship at the public institute Radiotelevision Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding censorship at the Public Institute of Radio Television of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interim Report on the Quality of Coal Value, Stocks and Buy-Out Prices of Coal in the Investment Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. 69 Members and Members were present and 59 were voted against and no one was present. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 26th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
