ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! I begin the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Porotat, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 17:00 on, Mrs Suzana Lepi Šimenko from 16.30 on, Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mr Matjaž Han from 16:00 on, Mr Jože Tanko from 16:00 on, Mr Tomaž Lisec, Mr Roberto Battelli, Dr. László Göncz, Dr. Milan Brglez from 17-19:00, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, Mr. Dušan Radič, Mr. Igor Zorčič from 17:00, Mr. Jožef Horvat, Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Jernej Vratvec, Mr. Miha Kordiši, Dr. Government representatives were invited to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 50th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 20 October 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the order of the day you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 50th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is the third defensively proposed law to regulate the position of students within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a Member of the Parliament, Dr Milan Brglez, who gives him the floor to further explain the bill. Dr. Brglez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members, Members, Government representatives, students! First of all, let me express our satisfaction that we are now going to the final stage of the validation of the law, which contains some of the most basic solutions for improving the social situation of students, or solutions for some of those problems that are most in the sky; even better, I would mark them as those that we can actually face or all the stakeholders in the process – both by the government, that is, all ministries, in particular the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and, on the other hand, the students and the parliamentary groups – have somehow agreed. In addition, today's rapid adoption of the law will allow further consideration of laws that the present proposal amends or where the same matters are being dealt with and prevents them from being dealt with. With the amendments in the second reading at the plenary session of the National Assembly, adjustments were also adopted to make solutions easier and clearly feasible on the government side. I must express my satisfaction that the proposed solutions have so far received the legislator's unanimous support and that all stakeholders involved have been able to agree on solutions. This, I think, is the characteristic of at least this process, although some critical observations are always available and, of course, I also take them to my dig, if necessary. Five basic sets of solutions agreed upon: 1. offering health insurance for all students by the end of the academic year in which they are 27 years old; 2. a compromise extension of the supply of subsidised student diet by 2 p.m.; 3. aligning the conditions of scholarship with European Union law and case law and the legal arrangements of the residence allowance; 4. arrangements for the exercise of special rights for students with special needs and special status; and 5. the possibility of maintaining student status by the end of the academic year after the end of the second Bologna level. Of course, solutions could have been even better; each of the stakeholders in this arrangement could have wanted an even greater ransom. That is why I see this proposal as a starting point for better times for Slovenian students and students, in which they are also finally committed to what is their basic mission, namely to study and research. I thank all my fellow Members and Members for their support so far, and I call on you to fully support the bill. So let us do something together to eliminate austerity measures for those who are the greatest potential in our society – young and within this category of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž God. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us the proposal for a law to regulate the situation of students, which, after the Government had received it on the table and given that the proposal for a law to intervene in many areas, in fact, the Government started with a very large inter-departmental coordination with various areas, in short, and on this basis we have prepared extensive comments or proposals to improve the legal proposal itself, which we have then coordinated in the next stages of the whole process and, as Dr. Brglez has already said, coordinated among ourselves. [[…]] Those comments that have been tabled by various departments, in short, by the Government, can be noted in the proposals adopted in the amendments of the proposer or the committee responsible, and we therefore find at this point - and I am pleased to say that we note - that the views of the Government are in line with what we have in front of us in the bill itself. For this reason, the Government is not opposed to the law, and I must say that it is a great pleasure for us to actually add one new stone to this law in the mosaic of the establishment of an appropriate environment, an institutional environment and conditions, rights that will allow students to become even more committed to what has already been said, their key purpose – studies and research – which will contribute to greater competitiveness and the well-being of Slovenia. As has already been said, because of all the above, the government does not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u6	Thank you very much. In our parliamentary group, we will also support the law in this reading. Why? Because the purpose of this marriage is good. However, it must be said that the performance is poor. Why is she bad? Because it's not right for us to solve more things in one marriage. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was that this was not a systemic solution. So I'm sure if anyone else, not our president, had filed it, this law wouldn't have been passed, so obviously you've made the right decision. We are interfering with several laws; as the government representative has said, the law interferes with many areas. They added extensive corrections. It follows from these corrections that two of the things in this law were already flying, namely, income relief and increased food subsidies. The income will be saved in the second law, the higher food subsidy will unfortunately not be resolved; despite the fact that we have been recording economic growth for four years in a row, the students are still obviously not in line for those few euros. We will arrange for health insurance, which will be extended to 26 years, the state grant will also be available to foreign citizens, students will be able to afford food by 21. Hours. In fact, that is all that is left in this law. And, as we have already said, we support and support it in our parliamentary group, but we think that youth policy in our country should be guided differently, addressing all problems and not so partially just bits. However, the purpose will obviously be achieved and so is the case. Certain things will improve for the students.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u7	Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u8	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Government! Since the last presentation of the views of the SMC Group on the bill to regulate the situation of students has been less than a week, this time we will be a little shorter and saily. In the academic year 2016/2017, Slovenian higher education institutions visit slightly less than 80,000 higher and higher education students, who are touched by the solutions contained in the bill. They touch on their daily study life and their associated lives, so we are pleased that the initiative to amend the legislation came from civil society, from students themselves, who were also united in their advocacy, which is particularly important to stress. We will support the law because it already comes from the title of the proposal, it regulates or improves the situation of students. Solutions may not at first sight be crucial, but each of them meets different areas of student participation, and when we connect them together, we get a satisfactory whole, which will facilitate the study process for students during their studies, especially for students with special needs and special status. Members of the SMC have been particularly attentive to these vulnerable communities, as we have already demonstrated by the second law of the current Assembly. To be honest, the compromise proposal that emerged in the legislative process represents slightly more than a pleasant gift for young people, which we have heard as an obvious in the second reading. Therefore, in the SMC Group today, we express our support and we are confident that Members and Members will be able to listen to constructive proposals in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u9	Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Nice welcome to President CHOS Alexander Ready with a team of associates! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the law prepared by the Student Organisation of Slovenia and put it into Parliament through the President of the National Assembly, Milan Brglez. However, I cannot help but overlook the fact that I would not read a few points that are written in the Coalition Treaty under Chapter Youth or nine concrete measures that you have written to implement in the 2014-2018 mandate. The first measure is All in one place and is talking about establishing a career incubator for the active inclusion of young people in the labour market. The second step is to arrange more accessible kindergartens for young people. As a third measure, you have announced a voucher system through which you will establish a system for carrying out compulsory traineeships and practices in order to make it easier for young people to obtain employment in the labour market. Then you predicted the establishment of housing cooperatives, as they do in Germany and Switzerland. You have announced that you will subsidise interest rates on the purchase of older rural houses and on the acquisition of farms by young farmers. You have announced that the first year of the first year of the grant will be the first year of the release of contributions to the newly employed grantor. Finally, under the ninth point: “We will strive to establish a single system for recording the work experience of young people at the national level.” Respectable coalition, ladies and gentlemen! How many points of this program have you achieved? Not one of the nine points in your term of office has been fulfilled six months before the end of this term. For this reason, it is only reasonable to support this law, which far from solves the problem that you are referring to in the coalition contract, but Chapter 4.13 — Young people; not one of these measures has been implemented in three and a half years, as far as you are in power. And from this I can conclude – based on what it says, of course, so these are not empty words – that obviously this coalition is not a priority for young people, as we like to say, to them, the Spanish village, that there is a lot of talk about how you will support young people, what measures will be taken. Finally, we heard your Minister of Education say, above all, that she was referring to young people during the presidential campaign, as she advocated that young people be given electoral rights at the age of 16. I want to know what she's going to do now or what the government SMC is going to do. In short, as far as young people are concerned, we only listen by Mrs Anja Kopač Dark to reduce youth unemployment, but there is no realisation of what has been done in the field of measures I have listed or better said, which I have read and have been defined as those necessary measures to improve the situation of young people in this coalition contract. So our support has a law. Unfortunately, in this mandate, you have rejected several laws that have regulated and would also improve the area of young people who have come from the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have now adopted one or two marriages, we have changed to get there by 2020 to a dual school system. If we had passed the law that we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party after the good first half of the term, not only would we have those pilot projects that were already in place today, but we would have a functioning dual school system that would certainly help us to have [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u11	Colleagues, colleagues, please listen, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u12	that young people have a greater job opportunity and, of course, that the transition between the education system and the labour market would be significantly better. [[…]] Not to mention our proposals on traineeships. This is where you refer to housing cooperatives. We have proposed a concrete measure on how to give the housing fund and young people and young families under the age of 35 the possibility of renting on non-profit rents and then, after five years, also a non-profit buy-in, all of which would have previously been counted at this redemption price, but unfortunately not successful. But I hope that the young will see who is really working for them and who is just talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u14	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! On 17 October, at the second reading of the law, we announced support for the Desus Group. At the regular October session, we confirmed all the proposed additions, and today we have a third reading of the law and its confirmation. According to previous forecasts of all parliamentary groups in the previous week, we will also unanimously support the law. If I repeat the content of the law briefly: students with this law and the novelty of the income law, which follows, obtain in the field of income, student diet, health insurance, scholarships, and especially in this law is an important provision which places the special status and treatment of students with special needs – athletes, artists and parents – on the legal level. As we say, we have already supported the solutions in the Desus Group. Allow a few more words about our group's reflection on the issue of young people. The population of students in our country is not negligible. Nearly 60% of young people aged 19-24 are enrolled in tertiary education. The latter offers a wide and diverse range of study programmes, while our educational system also provides a wide range of rights and benefits from student status at this level. Ambassadors and Members of Desus believe in the young generation, so we want our young people's living conditions to be optimal at the start of their own lives. We believe that the population of students is well cared for by the state, while we are in the position that students must also take full responsibility and seriously and vigorously study and study. If the duration of the study is much longer for us than for other countries, the reasons for this need to be found and addressed. The student's age cannot and must not be limited to the enjoyment of the rights and benefits that we have in our country, but above all there must be no social adjustment. In Desus, we want everyone who finishes his education for the profession he chose to take the job. Work that is properly paid, which gives economic freedom or social independence and security. Of course, this is not a student’s work, nor is it a second penitentiary work on civil contracts. Similarly, an active employment policy with various incentives and programmes that are not lacking for young people should lead to only one exit, which is regular employment and not an exchange of mpecuniary and stock exchange. There is not too much thought in this place about whether education is directed at the economy or follows the needs of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u15	Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats Group, where we supported and will do the same in the third reading in the second reading of the Act on the Regulation of the Status of Students, since, in addition to the regulation of the field of scholarship and healthcare, this Act also regulates the improvement of the conditions for access to education for students with special needs, and this is not only a more favourable treatment in the selection process itself, but also for adjustments in the implementation of the programme and of course for professional assistance. All of this will certainly enable better conditions for the most vulnerable students and students. Of course, we are pleased that, in the context of the consideration of this law, we have also been able to implement on our proposal, with the participation of the student organisation, the use of student subsidies by 21:00, which, however, we have tried to apply the fact that even for those most demanding programmes that individual students have, we can, if we say so, provide an equivalent opportunity to benefit from food subsidies. So, in addition to what has already been coordinated, we have also further agreed on and agreed on a committee by virtually unanimous agreement. Of course, this law, which somehow responds to the situation of students, which is actually caused by anomalies or if you want problems due to excessive savings in this area, will obviously not be enough, because at the moment we adopt this law, we are faced with warnings regarding the interpretation of Article 69 of the Higher Education Act. For many students were deprived of social rights during this period of entry into force of this Article. Of course, in this case, coordination with the student organisation and the ministry would lead to an appropriate solution as soon as possible, which would, if necessary, also support the new legislative procedure and eliminate these anomalies. Finally, we would also like to draw attention in this process to the exceptional need to define public service in the Higher Education Act. This is the constant we keep reminding us of, as we have recently observed in the newspaper that the tuition on certain programmes has increased dramatically; it even amounts to EUR 10,000 per year. This is certainly a measure that does not allow everyone access to education, and we therefore once again call on the Ministry to draw up the Higher Education Act, where the definition of public service will also be defined, and that this will not be a weakness, because this definition does not mean that some people can repeatedly raise tuition and thus make it drasticly impossible to obtain adequate education for those who are socially weaker. Finally, the law on regulating the situation of students in the third reading will be supported in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u17	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u18	Mr President, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The law to regulate the situation of students will be supported in the New Slovenia Group. Only the fact that students supported the bill – although in the original version, which we believe contained slightly more good solutions – has gathered almost 17,000 signatures in one week is a clear signal enough to want to regulate and improve their situation. The bill allows students and students to benefit from compulsory health insurance for the duration of education if they are enrolled in a secondary or tertiary education programme in a timely manner. After the adoption of the amendment of the Committee, the student shall have the opportunity to benefit from compulsory health insurance until the end of the study year in which he has completed 26 years. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this is a reasonable limit and a good solution. We certainly cannot pass the fact that students are once again calling for amendments to the Higher Education Act. Some have received a letter from the Institute of Health Insurance in recent weeks that they no longer have basic health insurance. This benefit to them after their interpretation [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u19	I'm asking you to listen! Excuse me, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u20	The Institute for Health Insurance, pursuant to Article 69(1) of the Higher Education Act, which was adopted last December, does not belong, despite the status of the student. [[…]] The alignment of student nutrition subsidies with the cost of living index would be supported in the New Slovenia Group, since the subsidy price has been at the same level for 5 years and amounts to 2.63 euros, but this article was lined up with the amendment of the Committee. We certainly support the proposal to extend the possibility of using student food vouchers by 21:00. As early as March this year, I sent a written question to Minister Anji Kopač Mrak on my own concerning the receipt of the scholarship allowance, if the student meets the conditions for his acquisition during the study year, for example for the relocation. The current regime is unfair as it obliges a student to notify an annual change resulting in the withdrawal of an allowance for residence during the year, but it is not possible for him to start receiving an allowance for residence if the grantor was not entitled to it at the time of the conclusion of the scholarship. This is finally regulated by this proposal of the law. The bill extends the duration of student status after graduation at the second Bologna level until the end of the academic year. The student does not lose his post after defending his master's degree, but only with the end of his study year. The same arrangement is already in force at the first stage of the study. We support this proposal in New Slovenia. It is true that such an extension of student status does not encourage a faster search for regular employment, but this proposal rewards the good students who finish their studies earlier and discourages delaying by procrastination by the end of the academic year in September. The bill regulates the situation of students with special needs and students with special status. In the New Slovenia Group, these two categories of students are particularly highlighted, as the current legislation of their situation is not entirely regulated. In New Slovenia we believe that the bill adequately defines the rights of students with special needs and students with special status. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law to regulate the situation of students. Dear President, there was a disturbance in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u21	That's right. I have already warned twice; not only Mrs Dimic, but even the predecessors have already announced that they are having difficulty reading the text, so please – we also have Mr Luka Mesco – to listen to this point and then we will vote. Mr Luka Moon, if you please, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u22	Yes, thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! From the very beginning, we have supported the substantive solutions of this law. In particular, we supported its original form, which specifically improved the situation of students. Unfortunately, the content of the law was severely limited and Dr Milan Brglez, the proposer, well circumcised his own proposal. The law thus deleted solutions that raised the amount of student voucher subsidies and allowed them to be used up to ten o’clock in the evening even during the summer. Also, due to the government's promise of system regulation, the proposal to return specific tax reliefs to the student level prior to 2012 was deleted. In view of the Government’s opposition and opposition to the Health Insurance Office, a solution for health insurance was also deleted, which provided students with insurance by the end of the academic year in which they are 27 years old. We are pleased that we have then found an acceptable solution to the student diet on the committee and that we have managed to agree that students will be protected by the end of the academic year and that this right will not be taken away from them on the day they are 26 years old. It is also a welcome solution for students to be able to maintain their status until the end of the academic year in which they graduated. In this we see the guardian that they will have more time to gain safe employment, because at the end of the study and at the sudden loss of status they are often faced with pressure from overworked workers and employers who increasingly force students into self-employment and fictitious entry. As a result of these solutions, we are pleased in Levica that it appears today that this law will be passed. We note, however, that this opens the way for business opportunities to begin the treatment of other substantively related laws. In the first place, of course, I am referring to the Higher Education Act, which we proposed in Levica, which solves the recent problem of students who, despite a regular study, have lost their rights to parallel enrolment and integrity in the performance of their study obligations overnight. As a result of the decisions of the members of the National Assembly, both the right to health insurance and the right to scholarship and subsidised transport, stay and nutrition were abolished. These are the consequences of reckless complementarity with the Higher Education Act. We have proposed a solution to the situation in Levica: this is as soon as possible an amendment to the current Higher Education Act, its 69th Article. I would like to stress that as soon as possible, since the study year has already begun, students who have been wrongly deprived of their rights cannot exercise health insurance, the right to subsidised food, housing in student homes and so on. Therefore, before I leave, I would like to call once again, in particular on the members of the coalition, to contribute the signatures for the extraordinary session we have proposed in Levica. This is the only way to solve things as soon as possible and not to wait and stretch out the solution to the problems that have arisen for a month or even two. The study year is running, the students are in trouble because of our decisions – or more precisely yours – and I think that after we settle the things ahead of us today, we must also resolve this recent injustice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u23	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing all that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading at the home work body and at the meeting of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. Please check the voting devices. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues, for the next item in the agenda, I would like to ask your attention. In fact, colleague Jani Möderndorfer has been stuck in a traffic jam for the next 5 to 10 minutes, so I apologize. But we don't have a proposal, so I'm taking ten minutes off. I apologize for the inconvenience. Ten minutes, so I'll see you at 15 and 47 minutes. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u24	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We're moving to 2. DENMARK OF THE DAY'S LINE, THAT IS TO THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AN ACT ON THE EXTENSION OF THE OBJECTARY PARLAMENT INVESTIGATION FOR MORITICAL AMENDMENT OF THE LEGAL AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE PREVENTION OF DENARY PREVENTION AND THE FINANCING OF THE FINANCING OF THE TERRORISM AND THE DEFINITIVE SITUATION FOR THE FINANCING OF THE POLITICAL RESPONSIONS OF THE CARRIAGE FUND AND THE FINANCING OF THE NATIONAL FINANCING FINANCING AND THE FINANCING OF THE FINANCING OF THE EFFECTIVAL ITS. On the part of the Islamic Republic of Iran and its associated economic entities and for the alleged non-implementation of restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran, established by the United Nations and by the European Union. The proposal to extend the parliamentary survey was submitted to the assembly by an investigative committee, so I give the floor to the President of the Commission of Inquiry to Mr Jani Möderndorfer for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Vice President. The National Assembly held a regular September session on the suspicion of money laundering by Iranian and British nationals, Irai Farrokhzadeh, and related economic operators, who are expected to wash for about a billion dollars through the New Ljubljana Bank, confirmed the findings of the interim report of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the identification of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone and the Commission's special report on the supervision of intelligence and security services. Shortly after the adoption of the special and interim report referred to above, the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system and the determination of the causes and responsibilities for the second resolution of the banking system in Slovenia alone began hearings in the case of the New Credit Bank Maribor. As a witness, Aleš Hauc, who led the bank until 2015 – both at the time when its owner was also the Republic of Slovenia and also under new owners – was to be used by citizens to launder money. While the suspicions of money laundering were revealed by Mladina and the Italian Centre for Investigative Journalism on the day of the hearing, Novo KBM was to be used by Italian and other foreign citizens to launder money from illegal transactions. For example, after reporting to the media, the Italian parties used bank accounts in Nova KBM for transactions in money, often arising from criminal offences such as tax evasion and abuse of the position, and could also be the result of serious crimes related to organised crime, which were identified by Banka Slovenije inspectors who carried out a business review of New KBM at the end of 2014. The money was only supposed to be in New KBM accounts for a short period of time, and then it was raised in cash or transferred to other company accounts, for this opportunity opened in Slovenia, whose only role was to hide money from the tax administration and the police. At the beginning of September, a new Commission of Inquiry was set up in the National Assembly to identify the political responsibility of the holders of public functions as well as of the state authorities, namely the authorities of control and prosecution, in the case of Farrokh. It will also assess the appropriateness of legislation in the area of money laundering prevention and terrorist financing. The Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of the activities of foreign intelligence and security services abroad in Nova Ljubljanska banka d. d. has already considered the Farrokh case at five meetings, and has also heard the first expert witness. Since money laundering poses a serious threat to the stability and integrity of financial institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission of Inquiry decided to propose that the subject of the investigation should also be extended to New KBM, especially since it was at the time when the suspicions of money laundering were identified, New KBM was owned by the State. The Investigative Commission considers that it was reasonable to conduct both investigations in parallel, since both the identification of political responsibilities and the responsibilities of state authorities and the appropriateness of legislation governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing are intertwined in both cases. In addition, the Commission of Inquiry is ahead of the difficult task of completing both investigations by the end of this mandate, for which it has been available for a little over half a year. The latter reasons, in our opinion, justify the expansion of the scope of the investigation as soon as possible and thus the powers of the Commission of Inquiry to conduct such an investigation even in this case of suspected money laundering.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u26	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We begin with Mr Janije Möderndorfer, I apologize for presenting the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u27	Let me say that, of course, in the SMC Group, we support such an extension of the Commission of Inquiry or its tasks for one particular reason. Whenever there is suspicion or a task, especially in the mandate, when we already have an investigative commission dealing with money laundering, it is, of course, its duty not to turn away, but simply to deal with such a case in the context of its tasks, laws and regulations, of course, and to reach final conclusions. However, let me say that, of course, today's debate, which is intended primarily for debate and discussion on the extension of the subject of such an investigation, of course, would be extremely inappropriate already to predict in advance any indications or what has actually happened; in particular, I am convinced that this is the task of the Commission, its members and, of course, the responsibility to end up presenting a clear report with the findings and, of course, also shows errors within the system if they exist. [[…]] Of course, the SMC also supports such an extension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u28	The word has magic. Branko Grims will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u29	Good-bye to all of you! It is now clear for several months now that what could not have happened in a normal country in Slovenia’s largest bank happened a few years ago. That from a country that was then under the United Nations embargo due to proliferation — what is the purchase of weapons of mass destruction or parts thereof, according to the domestic programme of the Islamic Republic of Iran and their attempts to buy materials for chemical weapons — came a mountain of money and then divided through the New Ljubljana Bank into other titles across Europe, the United States and elsewhere. At the same time, it is not only shocking that someone in Slovenia has the power to agree on something like this – and it is clear to everyone in this Chamber that it is not one bank director who invents it because it would have been a bad night's sleep, but that it would have been arranged somewhere else and someone else, and, of course, as the bank's director, he is guilty of doing it – but even more shocking is that all the control mechanisms of this country have failed. Persecution organs, everyone. Only one part of the most recent political summit was informed at that time: Danilo Türk, Prime Minister Borut Pahor, Interior Minister Katarina Kresal, Finance Minister Križanič, and also the Foreign Minister, and some advisers, etc. Those who participated in these procedures, which were very infamous at the time and unsuccessfully ended up, are mostly still in some key places today. Therefore, the very large question is whether the correctional exam, which was triggered by the disclosure of this act, will succeed. There are many reasons to doubt that. One of them is that, after the relevant reports by both the bank hole investigators and the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission have already been unanimously confirmed by the National Assembly, there is still another investigator who is supposed to be dealing with this in particular. It would make sense to me if all these people had been asked by this superstar night, day in and day out for questioning, and tried to get some more information, but as far as I know, nothing's happening on this subject. It is now happening that they are proposing enlargement. Spreading with something that has been published in an Italian newspaper — as much as it is not, we can discuss it — but, you know, sometimes it is very interesting to discuss the size class. What is most shocking about the matter of the New Ljubljana Bank and money laundering is that it is a billion dollars. According to some figures, if you add it all up, even a billion euros comes from what's a lot of money. This is supposed to be a questionable million, two million euros. This is the ratio of 1 to 1000; to imagine what it looks like: this is a good 2 millimeter thickness, this coin, and this to the ground is one meter -- that is to say, the ratio there is something like this. Now, tell me, at this height, how much do you see this coin that I put up there? Nothing. It's not a comparable matter at all. That is why, with some giant issue that was notified of the political summit, he did nothing, did nothing, did nothing, did nothing, did something to the investigator, but added something that was virtually undetectable compared to the case. The answer is simple: because it is the sowing of fog. It is the whole of this investigator, led by Mr Möderndorfer, to plant fog. At the time of its establishment, I wrote a tweet that it was an investigator who would serve only to protect the character and work of Mr Goran Klemenčič, the justice minister. He's already had his moment of truth, he's already got an interpolation. He offered himself for what was very nice, I didn't say it was intelligent, but it was very nice of him, because he went to a press conference and started explaining how they gave some sort of criminal complaint. And when we looked at this thing from a distance, you schmuck, nobody knew anything about it. Then we invited him, and he relativized the matter. In the end, it turned out that, in fact, it was a rather harsh deception for the public, which is completely incompatible with some part of one minister, if I am very diplomatic. If something is to be expected of the Justice Minister, he is consistent, correct, and by his actions and actions as an example. It is interesting that we are actually talking about this right now, because if it were a normal country, then of course only a judicial stunt with the destruction of evidence against Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic because of the suspicion of sexual abuse would lead to an objective responsibility of the minister responsible for his affairs under the law, and of course he would have resigned. But if he hadn't stepped down, he'd have been replaced by the Prime Minister. Do you know what happened in Slovenia? In Slovenia, however, this President of the Government is proposing to replace and leave politics, but he proposes to become Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. That's what you say, for the prize. That is to say, if something should be investigated by this Commission, led by Mr Möderndorfer, it should now be a political responsibility to examine how someone could, with his conduct which has been unanimously confirmed as inappropriate, also by the entire National Assembly, as this was part of our report, the report of the Commission I am leading — to monitor security and intelligence services — that this was not properly done that the protocol was not respected. That is said, Mr Möderndorfer should first question Mr Klemenčič and the Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Cerar. But as far as I can tell, he's not suggesting it today. He proposes some extension with some matter, which must certainly also be looked at by law enforcement authorities, but if he has broken the law, it should be clearly explored, regardless of whether it is another size. And if anyone has broken the law, let him answer to the law. But, excuse me, don't mix apples and pears. This is not a matter that the entire state summit would be informed of, with the exception of Parliament, which is very instructive, including with the extraordinary President of Parliament, which is even more in the eyes, and he has done nothing. We're talking about an entirely different matter that's being pushed along to let you know that -- if you have too many small trees, then you can't see in the end that there's a guest in the back. [[…]] And that's exactly what we want to do in this case, so that we don't talk about how it's possible that someone had the power to steal the country from their citizens, and that someone is obviously manipulating it today, even if you want to, and on the other hand, that people would ask where the responsibility is. No, in the same breath, today rewards those who have behaved or abandoned their duties by abandoning their conduct in accordance with a protocol that has regulated certain procedures, which is why the material has not been properly dealt with; it has no status as it should have, and therefore the procedure has ended unfavorably, as these people are now receiving the prize. [[…]] At the same time, a commission is set up to investigate the political responsibility for what happened. Yes, forgive me, whoever understands this also understands why the Nobel Peace Prize winner Mr Havel said so many years ago: “The lie is the immortal soul of the left-wing.” Because that's what we're talking about today. Any offence, if there is reasonable suspicion, if there are indications, must be reported, shall be subject to appropriate treatment by law enforcement authorities. If a violation of the law is found, it must be properly processed by the prosecution before the court and people must be held accountable for the offences committed. I hope we all agree on that. Then there is the question of political responsibility. However, political responsibility is, of course, when people or themselves, through some political function, cause something or do not prevent something, they should, but it is a crime. And in the case of money laundering through the companies of Mr Farrokhzadeh, through the New Ljubljana Bank – and the money was transferred from the bank that was under the embargo of the European Commission – of course, such people are known. Their names and surnames are known, they're all in the report, I've numbered them before, and they're responsible. So, the responsibility is clear, it's already been established. When someone takes something from here and adds anything to it, of course, it's a blur, and things have to be named by the right name. Now what needs to be achieved and insisted is that for everything that happened at the time, a re-investigation is carried out to determine where responsibility is, including criminal responsibility, and to enforce it. As far as political responsibility is concerned, this is undoubtedly already established by the adoption of the reports of the two Commissions in the National Assembly. Nothing in particular needs to be identified. It is known who was informed, who did nothing or even did not read that notice. It is also known that some have been exempted from this notification. The number of billions never came to Parliament. Never. It was neither received by the Commission nor by the President of Parliament, which is the most visible in the eyes, since usually three presidents are always informed with confidential information. These are: the President of the State, the President of the Government and the President of Parliament, that is to say, the leader of the representative, executive and legislative branches of power, if you will. In this case, one was exempted. Of course, that's not the case. No, no, no, no. The hints coming to Parliament were ridiculous. I told you that the only material dealt with by the parliamentary commission – I was not a member of it at the time, but I looked back at things in detail – had a single sentence in that annual report: that they also dealt with cases of money laundering suspected of the Middle East and the end of the story. And they're investigating it. That's all. On the same side, you will not believe, but there was such a long paragraph about how they investigate right-wing extremism, which will make it the boss and tutor of everyone in the Balkans and that you should pay particular attention to right-wing extremism, which is growing and right-wing extremism up and down. So a billion dollars is irrelevant, even if it's a crime, it's important to watch a German pursue some imaginary right-wing extremism. By the way, those right-wing extremists then dance with Mr. Zoran Jankovic on stage, that comedy is perfect. This, of course, is a parody of the rule of law. It's also a publicity parody. But in this parody, there's one part that's not even funny. Some people are in the executive branch of power — and this is the representative president of the country — knew this story. None of them did anything. Some have been informed by people who have risked something to give them a notice – also specifically Mr Goran Klemenčič on their own declaration at the KPK – and have then treated the material in such a way that it was not as useful as further evidence in the evidentiary process, which led to a poor outcome. And then, about his own role, which he obviously wanted to take political advantage of, they didn't exactly make a statement to the public. You know, by your own words, you're deceiving me. Instead of dealing with this – with the political responsibility of those who are known by their name and surname – these, in particular Mr Goran Klemenčič, are rewarded by this current coalition and the Government and sent to the Commissioners for Human Rights, although we do not only read what I have just stated in their interpretation, but also not to act on human rights violations. Failure to act, but you will not believe, is, by definition, the definition of corruption by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Interesting, isn't it? So those who are supposed to be in charge of the prosecution of corruption, if they have abandoned the obligation to act, have themselves committed a corrupt act. But they will now be rewarded for this because the government of Mr Cerar has decided to do so, with the seat of the Ombudsman or the Commissioner for Human Rights. However, in order to fill this space nicely with fog, it will take care of one another's commission of inquiry and compare things that are not comparable. Because of this in relation to NKBM, whether it is true or not, it should be determined by the relevant authorities; after all that has been known, no one has ever been informed in politics, but at least the Government as a whole, and at least the President of the State to leave the duty. Besides, the thing is, once again, I say look at this size comparison. [[…]] So much as this coin is up against the entire height – the edge of the coin, so there will be no mistake – all the way up to the ground. That's it. Whoever's pushing these two things together is probably just sowing fog. I guess that's clear to anyone who sees this, no. That's what's going on here today. For a certain purpose, in order to go in the style of that Russian joke, “sply the collective” so that no one would be responsible. Everyone who knows the joke knows he's pretty tough, and I'm not gonna tell him in full. You probably know what this is all about. I suggest you stop doing that. To devote yourself to the task, if you have already done an investigation, to question all these people again and to question them: If you gentlemen – which is indisputably established by the two commissions and confirmed by the unanimous decision of the National Assembly – knew which bank is in play, which bank is in the game of billions, and only you knew that it was a billion, you knew that the suspicion of money laundering was justified, you knew that it was suspected that the money for terrorism was laundering, for supporting terrorism and for suspecting the purchase of weapons of mass destruction, was a nuclear programme, and for the acquisition of elements or basic material for chemical weapons, why you did not take the necessary action, why you did not request reports, why you did not ask the authorities to do so, why you did not even so much to see that you were already aware of the fact that the police had already completed the investigation. Gentlemen – from Türk, Pahor, Klemenčič, everyone else – why didn't you then ask how it was possible for someone to steal an old moped, the police would make a record at the end, and at least, if not another, the report of an unknown offender and turn it over to the prosecution as information for knowledge and conduct, in which case the prosecution was never informed at all. Not even after the investigation is concluded, which is the most normal and legal way. If one of those who was informed had minimally asked what it was about, he would have known that and then the matter would not have ended as it did, and that is why it also entails political responsibility. This other case, which you're pushing along, has nothing to do with it, and you know it very well, and that's why you're actually going to talk about not having to talk about it. Because you have to talk about yourself, investigating political responsibility, while at the same time rewarding those who are already politically responsible. Indisputably, the consensus reached by the National Assembly was, including yours, ladies and gentlemen. It's right here. They're talking about an investigator, and in fact, we should talk about running away from responsibility. However, they did not act to escape the responsibility of those who were informed in politics at the time, and of your escape from responsibility, because, of course, they should also listen to a minister of their own and exercise his responsibility. But now we're just witnessing to that sad old principle that crows don't turn off their eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not right and I do not support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its fourth emergency meeting, the Investigative Commission adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to extend the scope of the investigation to possible amendments to the legislation governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and to establish and assess the actual state of play in order to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions. The scope of the parliamentary inquiry in Novi KMB is expanded by saying: To determine the political responsibility of individual public function holders due to suspicion of influence or involvement in the alleged money laundering in Novi KBM due to suspicion that this was done by their knowledge and without acting in accordance with their competences. In order to determine whether New KBM has developed and established an effective system to detect and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing and to implement comprehensively and carefully the legislation, the prescribed measures in the area of laundering and terrorist financing, and internal procedures for risk management in this area. In order to determine how the legislative measures for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, internal procedures, reporting to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the prevention of money laundering, and also to identify the roles and responsibilities of members of the administration, the supervisory board and the responsible persons of the bank for the payment of foreign payments and the money laundering officer in the bank for reasons of alleged abandonment or conduct contrary to the applicable legislation on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and due professional care in the conduct of transactions with natural persons or associated economic operators, and whether or not they were negotiated or influenced by individual public function holders. The investigation in Novi KBM should focus on the time period from the beginning of 2008 to 21. 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The investigation should also cover foreign payments or cross-border payments and payments with third countries through New KBM and focus in particular on Centrala Nova Gorica and Šempeter, Šempeter pri Novi Gorica. The Commission of Inquiry is particularly interested in payment transactions carried out by certain Italian citizens and related economic operators mentioned in the Bank of Slovenia's internal report on the comprehensive review of New KBM's operations in the field of money laundering and terrorist financing in November and December 2014. Finally, in the Desus Group, we also support the extension of the investigation with NLB to New KBM, because we want to know if irregularities have really occurred. And if they did, we want the findings of the commission of inquiry to help ensure that the judicial authorities can do their job and that those who, if they have infringed the law, would also be duly sanctioned accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will also support the proposal for enlargement, because we are actively and productively participating in the three investigation commissions that are investigating and investigating such crimes, because we are convinced that criminal acts cannot be classified as small and large and among the left and among the right, but they are simple. It is also in our task and the task of policy is to do everything in our power to investigate and explore what we can. We will therefore support the Commission's proposal, led by Mr Jani Möderndorfer, because we believe that we must not only make an impression, but actually engage in the fight against organised crime, whatever form it is. I must add that we regret that not all parliamentary parties are involved in all three investigative commissions, because in some way we give the impression that the policy is only interested in a certain part of the crimes or possibly possible crimes. We are therefore working to ensure that, at the principle level and at the actual level, only all political parties and parliamentary groups contribute to their knowledge and experience in order to prevent policy from acts that are foreign to them if they are foreign to them. Therefore, we will continue to act constructively, we will support proposals and continue to work in all three commissions to the best of our ability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u35	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! It's amazing how peaceful and quiet it is for stories like this to happen in the event of Iranian money laundering, not to be shaken by the state. Do you imagine that the Iranian intelligence service was financed through NLB in Slovenia? This is the intelligence service that the agents were buying the necessary equipment for the development of nuclear weapons. Nothing a peaceful mission. From the point of view of Slovenia, this is an extremely unpleasant situation, a large foreign policy flop, because doing so at the time Iran was on the embargo list is a relatively presumptuous act. The key to all this is who made it possible. And the view of New Slovenia is that all this laundering of Iranian money could not have happened if these people did not have Slovenian helpers. The Iranians must have had their assistants in the NLB. How do we know that? It is clear from the records and records so far that individual NLB officials have warned that it is an obvious matter of money laundering. How did they know that? In order to address unusual purposes, high amounts of payments had to be made at the specified time. It is interesting, however, that their superiors within NLB simply did not act. Even more so, the NLB administration has come up with a proposal to even cancel an inflow fee for this Iranian company. And with this, NLB was specifically damaged. And another amazing thing that would have been on the mission is that it is not possible for such a million-dollar transaction to even allow the use of the Proclik, without any restrictions. Of course, it would be unfair for all NLB employees to be thrown into the same basket. However, NLB has identified individuals who have been alerting irregularities since March 2009. They even called on the Anti-Corruption Commission, and from there they received an interesting response: Keep on monitoring closely. And another very interesting thing is that there should be records of such conversations and findings at this office, but there are no such notes. In a strange light, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering also places strong red tape in their operation, a strong reference to bureaucratic procedures; when the partner offices asked them for certain information, they did not respond for a while, but they referred to this: Let me add to your applications. And so on. Again, because it belongs to the category “impossible, but it is possible” that when they informed foreign partner offices, they forgot about the three zeros when they notified. Do you have any idea what the difference is if you send a notice that it went over NLB for EUR 700 million or for EUR 700 000? There's an essential difference. If we continue to go to the KPK, the Commission's role in preventing corruption in all this story; it is obvious that interpellation also shows that there has been a special war between Minister Klemenčič, then President of the KPK, and the SDS party. According to the information received and collected by the two commissions, the situation or the facts are that – as it has itself been revealed – I will not say anything confidential – Darko Stare, today’s State Secretary at the Ministry of Goran Klemenčič, then head of investigators at KPK, received from one of the whistleblowers from Banka Slovenije a special document showing that Banka Slovenija was working on these suspicious transactions and NLB businesses. Darko Stare handed this document over to one of the NPU officers who was supposed to be working on these things. This officer, after testifying, handed this document over to the police superiors, and then all traces of it went missing. These are the facts. The conflict, which occurs at SDS level and Klemenčič, is now in this. The question is, why didn't Stare go on the official path to report or file an accusation to the police about why he was using informal channels to do this, whether he could have done it sooner or could have done it later. I hope that this new commission of inquiry will also come into the details of this process now and will clear things up to the end. However, if we are completely honest, I understand the conflict between the SDS and Klemenčič, there are some reasons why they are focusing on this matter, but more importantly on this matter, I think: even though this Staret document came on an informal path to the police, why this document ended its path there, without any trace. [[…]] This seems more important, a key question – what went wrong with the police so much that all traces of this document were lost. And if I continue this story about the police, which is actually Hollywood. You can imagine that when the police were also informed about all these transactions by the Anti-Money Laundering Office, when they received a full list of these transactions, when they were even doing something to ensure that the Head of the NPU, who was responsible for these matters, quickly found out that it was not about money laundering, and that they found out before he got all the necessary or relevant information from other European partner services. And the same man who found out very quickly at the police that it was not money laundering, although we all claim that it was money laundering, then over two years from the police, he was wrongly dismissed for corruption, and the day before he had to go to court to testify to this case, fell from the ladder in strange circumstances and died without witnesses. If this isn't the basis for some serious research and in-depth analysis, then I can't imagine what it is. And I think that the commission led by Commissioner Möderndorfer should deepen into a key issue. Here, I think it's begun to cover its tracks behind this Iranian business. If the police had reacted significantly differently in 2010 in this process, perhaps today we would have some more tangible materials for court proceedings. And I think that this is exactly the story that needs to be focused and further investigated – why the police acted in the way they did. And let my colleagues in the SDS not resent me; it is right that this story regarding Klemenčič should be investigated and divided to the fullest extent, but, as Ambassador Grims said, we must not distance ourselves from the essence. And the point here is that the police have acted extremely unusually if I use an extremely nice expression. So if I continue this Iranian story. The business or financing of the Iranian intelligence service did not end until there were a number of pressures from abroad that this was unheard of, insurmountable and then based on the pressures of the Bank of Slovenia NLB. Otherwise, if it were not for this pressure, this deal would continue. It's amazing how the control mechanisms have canceled one after the other, so I'm saying that it can't be a naked coincidence here, but that there must be a story behind it, a strong group of people who deliberately saw to it that the control mechanisms were failing. Look, he canceled internal control at NLB on the start; there were warnings, they were overlooked. Secondly, he cancelled the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering with his bureaucratic procedures and with the gross misinformation of partner offices. She also cancelled Owl in the event of a lack of information from the partner services. It is very interesting, whose partner services Sova did not notify about the list of transactions and which it is. I don't think Sova's exactly the kind of partner service that would be very interested in these Iranian businesses has informed us with specific information. I've already worked on the story of the police, and I'm sure that the police have the most wrong things going on or that the story here is the most unusual. So I can think that we can rightly conclude from all the facts and evidence that this business in NLB has led to some parallel structures that in this country govern that it was formally Slovenian political – I speak formally, I do not know who was informally informed, but from the documentation it can be seen when the Slovenian political summit was formally notified, and this is 24 November 2010, that is two years after the deal was already under way and a month before the deal ended. So, formally, the Slovenian political summit was informed practically at the end of this deal. The fundamental question of who made this Iranian business possible. I am confident that someone who has good connections with Iran's intelligence service; someone who has nothing to do with Iran's intelligence service would certainly not have to agree on such a business, and b, this business has certainly enabled someone who has the power in this country to block all control mechanisms in this way. Whoever this is, you can answer each other. The Commission – a bank investigator for the supervision of security and intelligence services – has collected a huge amount of written material, including evidence of prosecution. But the fundamental question is whether there is any will to prosecute, because today some high public officials still hold important positions and can rightly ask us what their interest is, that these things are also being persecuted. That is why the work of Parliament and the parliamentary commissions is so much greater. But without any suggestion, I am convinced that the following can be proved: that in some way internal control in the NLB was disabled, that the NLB was financially damaged when the inflow commission gave up, and that NLB violated sanctions against Iran. These are three extremely specific things that I think are relatively easy to prove in this story. I think we could start by punishing and acting at least against the contractor of this business, but of course the fight against the organizers of this business will be extremely difficult, because if we go to them, then we will take the bull behind the horns, which is a deep state or those of the uncles in the background who run this country. Believe me, they're going to fight this one way or another. Two Commissions – the Commission for Security and Intelligence and the Banking Investigators – found, say, that KNOVS as to where the police had hidden where Owa had hidden it, and the bank investigator found where Banka Slovenije might have hidden it, where the NLB had also hidden it. And here the Iranian investigator has an important task of continuing this work and focusing on the essentials. Its extensive work has already been saved by obtaining documentation from both investigators who have already collected certain information. And I don't think the political responsibilities that this investigator is going to be difficult to identify. It is well - known which authorities have failed and who were their superiors or guesses. And this investigator, led by Member Möderndorfer, will have quite an easy job, which concerns at least finding out who was objectively politically responsible for the situation. Now, on the subject of today's point, the expansion to the NKBM area. I'll try to be direct. At first glance, it seems or at least an impression that this story may want to be somewhat politically balanced. Why? Because the leading people at NKBM were in the past and even in the near future, there were people close to the SDS. And with the story that the money for the Italian mafia was laundering at NKBM, it seems that in addition to the Iranian story, where the business allowed money to be laundering, the Iranian intelligence service was laundering with the help of the Slovenian deep state or uncles from the background, that on the other hand it wanted to create a political impression that on the NKBM, controlled by Esdees' people, he was laundering money from the Italian mafia. At least that's the impression when you look at the story at first sight. And this is where this commission will go completely if most of its work focuses on what was happening on NKBM instead of what was happening on NLB, because if this happens, if all of its focus is on three to four million euros instead of 700 million euros, then it will be justly confirmed that it is a political account, not a sincere search for facts and a search for the culprits for money laundering in NLB and NKBM. This time, I would lay my heart on all the members, and especially on the President: if they want their commission to be credible and their findings to be credible, then the work must also be relatively focused on the damage or amount of money laundered that has been laundered in the individual bank. However, I certainly agree that if it is found that the money was also laundered in the NKBM and if we have a special parliamentary investigator dealing with this particular subject, then it is right to investigate these transactions or this money laundering. However, I only hope that the findings of the parliamentary commission of inquiry will not be the only thing that will happen in this country following these findings and that the law enforcement authorities – starting with the police and then with the prosecution and the judiciary – will take appropriate action, including on the basis of the documentation chosen and provided by Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u36	Before we proceed with the position of the last parliamentary group, I give the floor to Dr Trčku because he wants to proceed on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have a little problem here that's pretty serious. You probably know which way my procedural course will go, after all, you're a member of the KNOVS. The Commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, not only in our Parliament, such committees have a specific feature: you cannot have alternate members, much of what we are dealing with there is classified information, in any case, a degree of secrecy, a ranking, a magnetogram of these commissions will only open through, I think colleague Matić told me 40 years after the current legislation. Why am I bringing this up? Because now a little fellow Grimes, and in fact quite a bit of a colleague of Tonin, has said what is in fact an official secret. We know that. The fact that something has leaked into the media, we know that. And now my procedural question. How am I supposed to proceed now? Like I didn't hear that? Will you warn your colleagues? Are we going to close the session? And that, after all, goes, but you know, to colleagues on the right, when Mr Janša would like to show me what would have happened if there had been an emergency situation, but if there had been a Franz Duck. That would be responsible. And I think we have a serious problem here. With all due respect to my colleague Tonin, three quarters of what you said is officially secret. Now let me explain how we should proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u38	Thank you, Dr. Duck, for this observation that I very much agree with. Even when I was giving my opinion, I wanted very much to limit myself to the content. Above all, we know what we are discussing; it is practically a technical addition to something that is still in progress. But just to avoid political interpretation, I think that each one of us has to understand what he can and cannot say. So please, colleagues, accept Dr. Duck's warning, because it is well intentional before I give you procedurally Dr. Matthew Tonin, that we are all aware that it is not the goal of the political pier, but the aim is to find out the irregularities. And let's keep that in our subconscious. Dr. Matthew Tonin, please, you wanted procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Vice President, but I'm still a little short on my doctorate, so thank you very much. [[...]] No problem. From this implementation, which Dr. Trček has now shown, it follows that I have obviously acted irresponsiblely when I am supposed to reveal certain things for this speaker. But let me reassure Dr. Duck that I was very responsible and attentive about these things and that for every information I presented today, I also noticed that he was presented at least in some medium, so that he was disclosed in public. And I used that data. And I am in favour of speaking as concretely as possible in Parliament as possible and not in a cellophane wrap. However, if the competent services find that I have disclosed some information that I should not have disclosed, believe that they will take appropriate action against me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u40	Thank you very much for that explanation. I suggest that we proceed with the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Dr. Levica, for her. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Since this item of the agenda is very much wrapped up in some subject of enlargement, I will also take some of this freedom. I very much appreciate the parliaments in which there is talk, but not the reading, but I will read something small for the introduction. Today, on my way by train, which was half an hour late, in two hours from Maribor to Ljubljana, I read one book and one last set of chapters before the end read: The fundamental contradiction of our society, the authoritarian state in democratic change. And a series of chapters before that have the title "Determining the Meaning of Personality". The sub-chapters go like this: Moral integrity of decision-makers, Pressure of averageness – I would even address this pressure of sub-averageness – the Member as a free personality – Article 82 of the Constitution – the surviving patterns of the political past – that is also true – the reality of the situation. France Bučar, the foundation of our statehood; a book that France Bučar was disappointed to write there more towards the end of his life. And all of this, all of these sub-chapters that I've listed here, are actually getting in the way of this story. I agree with Mr Grimes, it's unacceptable. That's right. It's unacceptable. But there are some other things that need to be said here. It is also unacceptable – and this went to the media, Comrade Tonin – that Mr Cernač, as I recall, missed that sentence and a half that Trček would never have missed, as I recall. Here sitting Mr. Mahnic likes to say, “Yes, because the Duck does not walk”, up, down. The KNOVS is a specific commission, sometimes I am simply not there, but there is not one thing the KNOVS is processing so that Trcek does not read it. You can go ask the secretary of the commission. It is unacceptable that he did not respond appropriately to the National Security Council, which was also informed, in which John Janez Janša sits, by clearing these matters up and pouring pure wine to use some of your phrases. The size class About the size class we talked about in a story that you've mostly forgotten – KPK, Jankovic, Janša. [[…]] That's where the story was. The size class of money that Jankovic is supposed to take to his sons is much larger than the size class of money that the successful Slovenian letter Janša cannot prove. And the joke on page A, you know, from what was now somehow said on the right side, it literally sounds like: Oh, the Italian mafia is laundering money in Slovenia, it's not a problem because the size class is smaller. [[…]] At least that size class we proved. My dears, I think if that's a responsible policy, then show me where the head guard in the National Assembly is, I'll dump her, or if the FID has turned it off, I'll shut it down. It's definitely not a responsible policy. Tonin spoke as if they did not have their own representative on this committee. You got him. As long as I am a member of this commission, this commission will not fail, because I always feel that the logic of "and" should be thought. If we touch forward, something is very much forgotten, and this point also has a kind of wrong title, and even when this commission was set up, I did not sit in college, and so on, otherwise it is also wrongly written. [[…]] My colleague Tonin knows very well that it is essentially a citizen with a passport from Great Britain. Is that right? Specifically, this gentleman. Let's stop fooling around. What's behind this story? Of course it's unacceptable, but the background of the story is what usually happens to you when you have such sanctions. Mr Gregorič has very nicely explained the geopolitical background of these sanctions. How did Iran get to the nuclear program? In those days when he was friendly with the United States, then the regime changed and the story turned. Mr Gregorič also said: "As far as the nuclear programme is concerned, Iran is probably the most controlled in the world, compared to it, Israel is the grey fox." You can check this in a magnetogram. But you know, let's get serious. And after you have these kinds of sanctions, usually, as they say in Bosnia, this brief draws heaven, and your business is happening in the background through these kinds of drains and circuits that are unacceptable. That's what I agree with, absolutely. But you know, that's what Margaret Thatcher's son did, and at the time of the breakup of Yugoslavia, you had a war, and from Rovinj, through Hungary, fish cans for a dry daily meal for the Yugoslav army. These are some of the facts that are happening to you. At the very expert presentation of Mr Strolig, I, like my colleague Tonin, pointed out in this verse who had failed to do so. But you know, we have to realize that in all these stories, there's a man in the end. You can have some artificial intelligence that looks at you a little bit, you have this data weakening, of course, the banks that are on the blacklist when you're supposed to start flashing, and someone doesn't have a beat, you have a Maribor story that has also come to the media, when in fact the person who was in charge of preventing money laundering and that the mafia doesn't turn money around in Slovenia has been silenced, basically lost their jobs. Now, I'm going to say that this difference isn't an excuse, so that's what SDS does because it's their bank. Let's be honest. [[…]] If I ask myself who the terrorists are in Slovenia; for me, the terrorists in Slovenia are those who have destroyed this country in 25 years who have twisted the bank hole they drilled, and who feed on the country, the state, the public procurement. Every teenager knows that if you Google it a little bit, if you've had a look at it you've had one line more LDS-SD via the Ljubljana Bank, you've had another line more SDS via the Maribor Bank. [[…]] I can compare the Ljubljana line with Slovenian son-in-law Donald, and I call them "banksters", the Maribor line, because they were there because they were previously in intelligence structures, and I could call it the "Putin line". And that's a fact, we know that. Let's stop fooling around. But if Tonin and I are gonna start working on this, we're gonna need protection, and so is the family. Because this is it, and when you get into politics in Slovenia Dani stinks – Dani, I wasn't the director of the Maribor bank, who sent his love mail with Janša. He was another man. And when you get into politics, they say to you in Slovenia: Don't cut into it, don't cut into health care, don't cut into energy, don't cut into infrastructure. Infrastructure; if you want, people say concrete mobs, trash mobs and so on. And that's the one, I hope Tonin and I agree, is a deep country. And that's what I was saying last time that I was going to be an exterminator of this, even if I got killed in the end, and then one of my former students was saying that something like this shouldn't be said in Parliament. And of course, because of this, let's be honest, because SD is an ideal type example of this. A couple of 100 people chained to the state, para state. And that's basically the story. And I didn't quote the old man, the bastard Butcher, and it's our responsibility to do that. After all, it was a responsibility that SMC promised as a new policy, but as soon as they came to you to put out an account, because they allowed you to do, let's be honest, what to do with your head, colleague, began the gentleman who sits here, respected Milan Brglez to list the lobby and stopped. And that's why people are disappointed in you, and that's also why your presidential candidate is burned down like she is. But I'm not going to go into what you paid some Israeli citizens for counseling. I can tell if Ludmila had enough money to come into the second round. I can be so honest. Of course, you're all looking at me in amazement right now, but this is the country that needs to be splattered or dissipated, if I say so myself. And that's it. And the task of this investigator is, of course, in this so-called Iranian work, although it is a citizen, I will not say anything new, Tonin, which had both the English service and the French service and any other service on the radar, that they probably knew what color the coat was wearing. But maybe sometimes you ask yourself, why don't foreign media say anything about it? Let's think about it. I'm not going to go any further. There is quite a bit of work done here, but in this Maribor story, research journalists have already done quite a bit of work and can somehow reduce time here, but of course the matter is very problematic and unpleasant, particularly in the crossing of two key political lobbyes. But you know, we always get hit by new people who have fallen into politics – and we are guilty of everything, and yet we are incapable of anything else, and “you will eat, you will lick the stone” as I am told, but let's be honest. In politics in Slovenia, if you are honest, you will not earn something crazy, but you will live a decent life. In Slovenia we have three, as Kucan would call them, political technologists. One is now still running for president of the country, and therefore should not, Mr Pahor, the other is a gentleman who was very fond of him at times because of the fine lips, Mr Golobič, the third is Mr, who is more orderly in the National Assembly, Ivan Janez Janša. These teams have their own people around, and these people have been sucking this country up for a quarter of a century. And now one key question is whether we're going to let this go on or not. Of course, what I'm saying now is probably someone's already writing me a death threat on some channel because it's happening. That's how they weigh you, because you know what, Tonin was threatened by that House Story back then. That's right. This is Slovenia today. And the new Krauts, the new hooves, the new ones, I don't know what they are now appearing on the edge of politics, and they're getting a lot bloated, they're not going to get away with it. Because either these deep-rooted countries are unaware or they're going to cross this deep country or they're already fooled by it, and that's it. And we, too, in the third branch of the Authority, probably need some prosecutors and some judges, who I hope will not be affected by fate, as some who have done in neighbouring Italy have done. But we actually have to do this, and that's also a fact that, even if you want to, rides the left. From some of the skills that I have myself, and I can't mention them here, a Maribor story would probably need its own investigative commission. Because there's so much cream that my head hurts, and there's so much I can digest. These are, in fact, some fairly well-known facts, but it is, of course, due to the maturity of us, as it is called, a political class that depends on whether or not this is somehow going to fall under the rug again. Frankly, it's an Iranian story; we can lock ourselves in a basement for a week, work 10 hours, have some hearings, and write a report on 20 pages in one week. The Maribor story would take us maybe a month or less. But you know, even this political class, which now listens to this – the great gentlemen I mentioned – people have quite a lot. A representative of the smallest political party in Parliament said to me, "But you are deeply informed." I said, "I am deeply informed about everything." And we will begin to see in a very timely time that this will happen to us if you remember in Croatia, when you had a bank employee who told you how much money the wife has, but he was already the late president. Even a bank clerk will tell who they were throwing the Swiss in a friendly way and who they didn't. And I think it's about time this happened. I will end with a quote from one of the most famous political speeches of John Cankar, which he had at the time in the largest city with Slovenian life, in Trieste. The title of this famous political speech is Purification and rejuvenation. The cleansing of the Slovenian policy that the SMC has promised has not taken away in this mandate, and the rejuvenation – but of course not the rejuvenation in the way of negative staffing. And rejuvenation also in the way of our young politicians — if they are already going abroad, if they are already working abroad, that they are also watching with a slightly more open eye what is happening abroad. Mr Tonin is very clear about what the German national and economic interest is, Mr Tonin knows very well – but I apologize to you, but here you are, in fact I am doing an advertisement – which is the property structure of the German banks and is not the dominant private one. After all, we can go to the basement of the National Assembly in the library and read Fran Trček about association from the year 34 because we may also find ourselves here, despite various political obstacles. And this is some kind of responsibility of the political class that needs to come, because otherwise let's stop blinding ourselves. These gentlemen, however, have stolen too much of the future from this country on more than one basis of “Nicknamed Giovanni della Terra”. Of course, this investigator will not be able to do all of this, but there may be a story in the right direction. After all, this is essentially a responsible policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u42	We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate between Members and Members, and as the first to receive the floor, Mr Jani Möderndorfer's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Vice President. If we had listened well, we could have found that I do not know if one third of the discussion was on the item that was actually proposed, and this is the extension to money laundering in NKBM. But there was much else to hear in these discussions. Of course, we will not decide on this today, but whether we agree on it or not, because by the rules of procedure, when the proposal is submitted to the plenary session, we will only get to know this and the extension will, of course, be clear to the Commission – that we must do this. This is, of course, always the moment and time when all the Members of Parliament, in particular one part – or, I will say, at least a very small part of the 90 Members – will always find a solution through their prism and their glasses, of course, how to discuss such topics, in order to stimulate attention and, of course, to define and even make certain claims that they do not have a basis for saying such things. At the beginning, when we set up this committee, I made it very clear that, as President, of course, I do not intend to abuse the Commission for political purposes, much less to say what some people are saying in advance, which is that in fact the work is not done at all, but we are already wasting energy. Mr Gorenak was very plastic in his debate or presentation, and stated quite a few nonsensees, which must be contradicted, because he would not create suspicions or even the idea that an investigative commission would really have to do something like this. Then I'll take my turn. The whole time he was talking here, he was looking here, and he was talking here. I don't know who he was talking to, but this money laundering, if we're talking about NLB, which has been happening, which is incontrovertible and evident, there's also an investigative commission for this; it wasn't here at the time it was happening, anyone sitting in that corner or in the middle. That's why this address and addressing how exactly Prime Minister Cerar is the most responsible right now for this money laundering is probably the one who is the Prime Minister of the Government and is right now, as President of the Government, the one they actually think they have to make an account of through this investigative commission. [[...]] But it's safe. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u44	Jani, I'm sorry. You mean Mr. Grimes, don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u45	Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I'm sorry. I can say out loud, yes, Mr Grimes I thought, yes, just him to make it clear. But did I say Gorenak? Yeah, I'm sorry, it's true. Well, I like Gorenak. Well, I was going to say that, above all, Mr Cerar is now using this asset to account for it in this way. Of course it doesn't work. But we can say something today, very out loud and clearly there will be no doubt. Yes, the President of the Government – his government has certainly launched an investigation that has never begun in previous governments. That's not what the most loud critics who have so much to say about NLB say. Tonin spoke very plastic today, and he was finally concerned about one point, that is, whether the commission might go by and start dealing too much with NKBM. No, it won't, it definitely won't, you can't worry about it. However, I will be very clear and, once again, it is possible for citizens and citizens to say the following in a more understandable language. Members and Members of Parliament, we all owe it to each other to see that we have encountered a particular matter that can be dealt with in the framework of the competence that Members and Members have to investigate, but not to pretend that they have nothing to do with it, or even more, they are doing so illegally on any other body. That was the point. And it's only right that this thing is being investigated. I agree with all the critics who say we have to get to the end and get to the epilogue for which this commission of inquiry is actually tasked. Mr Grims said that this commission was set up to create a fog, and at the same time he's predicting who we should be hearing or why we didn't. But I'm sure he doesn't follow, and he doesn't even know what the commission is doing. Nor can they, because their parliamentary group does not actually have a representative on this committee of inquiry, because it did not even want him and does not want him to have him. Why, I don't understand. I'm telling you again. Because they're sure they don't need it, or to make it easier to criticize. I don't know. However, in view of the knowledge and skills they have, which are proved at all times in all mandates, we might even be welcome with the knowledge that they have come and deepen and continue what they have already begun. The next thing would be interesting in particular to calm Mr Grimes down because he is so concerned – “instead of calling witnesses.” You know, in 40 people, he's gonna be called in for witnesses. We are now with expert witnesses, because we are doing a little differently than some other investigative committees, so that we can first clear up certain concepts. And more clearly, this last expert witness even said the following: the meeting was public and you could all monitor it: "In 2012 the National Assembly changed the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and gave even a new mandate to the Office, which is in fact abandoned everywhere in Europe and given no more." In fact, I'm talking about an inspection that the Bureau shouldn't actually have. Why? Because essentially the responsibility and competence of the authorised persons in the banks, who in fact have to carry out the first domestic task, is being reduced. And as colleague Tonin said, of course, it is more than clear — already from the accompanying documentation, from an interim report prepared by the Logar Commission, from a report prepared by the Grims Commission — that things did not go as they should. The question is whether this new law, which now applies to all security guards, offers this protection in advance. I'm sure you don't. For even in the final phase, if we are to be very clear and look at the final report at the end, and in the middle of the interim report, what we have discussed here many times – the regulator has not played his role in a timely manner. There are several such reasons, but use today's debate for some personal account, pain and trauma that the SDS is carrying because of its Chief of Staff and, of course, Mr Minister, then President of KPK. Remember Janez Janša's statement when he said he would use all the funds, he will use all the resources to bring the matter to an end as far as his report is concerned. Well, we see that in fact it's not really a problem what happened in the regulator, in the bank itself, in the office, in the police. All he cares about is Mr. Klemenčič. What's more, yesterday we could hear, he used his whole show again for money laundering. This was the main theme of his message yesterday, which is what it is, in fact, because it is more than clear that they want to use this topic for their election campaign. Of course, each politician is responsible for what he will do and how he will do it. I don't have a problem with that in principle, but it's also right to light up the other side. I don't want the commission to look like a witch hunt. Of course, I don't want what some of us are afraid of, all of us, that investigative commissions in the National Assembly will be the only thing that will happen in the Republic of Slovenia, as far as these issues are concerned. I think that, with the final reports and with certain conclusions, we will show ourselves, more or less, to the Slovenian public and, finally, to all the authorities that are already leading the process today, that, of course, they will also have to do their homework. In the end, that's what I'd like to say. I'm sure of one thing. If Members and Members - despite the fact that the report is usually partially open and the rest is closed - with a clear message in the open part in the final report, we give a clear signal and also tell what was wrong and what was not, I am sure that this commission will do its work, regardless of the time constraints, regardless of the deadlines some hold for two months in advance. Believe me, all witnesses will be interrogated and all documents will be used, documents already discovered, and finally certain actions will be clarified. But I can tell you, the Commission is already coming up with other and different findings that have been identified so far. However, it is in the final report. All that is before is pure ballast or abuse of a position that some skillfully use here only for political games. Unfortunately for me, this does not work, and you will not succeed. Of course, time will tell us everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, procedurally. There's no replica because you haven't discussed it yet. Good. Mr Uroš Prikl has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u47	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, hello! Apparently in this country there has been a lot of trouble in the past that today is necessary, I will say, 3+1, this is the four commissions of inquiry which control the TES and the bank hole, and of course the money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank, which is expanding today. Why did I say 3+1? Since, of course, the Fourth Commission is also here to oversee security and intelligence services that are not only concerned with certain procedural matters, general matters, but also involved in investigating irregularities that have taken place in the area of banking crime. Someone once said to set up a commission if you don't want anything cleared up, get rid of it. Of course, I do not share this view, this view, that we understand each other, and support the establishment of such committees, which have a priority to explore something. Nor do I find it appropriate to think in this direction whether, after the commission's work, the commission of inquiry will have the will to prosecute or not. Of course, the Commission, which will discover something, comes to some conclusions, this is a prerequisite, this is the basis for all law enforcement agencies to begin, that is, the prosecution and the judiciary to move forward and that the matter leads to a conclusion. Through this debate, which I have heard today, I must be honest to say that I am not overly optimistic when I see that just in advance some of the valuable judgments are being judged that some of the indications here are present, that they are being prejudged in a way with a lot and a lot of them. I would like all the investigative commissions that are in this national assembly to be fully staffed by representatives of all — not only coalition but also opposition — parties represented in this House and, of course, to come to conclusions that will come to their best possible conclusion. Of course, there is not much time for this investigative committee led by colleague Möderndorfer, and of course it is expanding its work cycle. When a man thinks we've gotten to that bottom, we see that we're not at the bottom yet. So that at least once Maribor or its surroundings or its institutions are excluded here, here, in banking crime, we run into the fact that irregularities, you don't want to, you also happen at the New Bank of Credit Maribor. Our bank, New Credit Bank Maribor, is unfortunately already a stymphony, I apologize, sold, but even though it has been sold and is a new owner, some essential, thank God, the cardinal negative consequences for the committees are not yet there and I hope that will remain. [[…]] However, in Desus, as we have also presented, we agree, we support, although, of course, there will be no vote today on whether or not the jurisdiction, the circle, if you want, is extended to the operation of the New Maribor Credit Bank. What do we want to do about it? Of course, we would like, in particular and exclusively, to establish a possible one, as we will not point to anyone at this point in time, the political responsibility of individual carriers. And, of course, whether their knowledge has also led to this money laundering. And if this turns out to be - I do not potentiate, just hypothetically say - I expect, in Desus, that all those bodies - such as the police, the prosecution, eventually the judiciary - will come to certain conclusions and that those responsible for the wrongdoing will, of course, also be responsible and bear all the consequences. Of course, it is also necessary to determine whether in our own, that is, in the New Bank of Credit, Maribor has designed and established an effective system to detect and prevent money laundering and, of course, even in the final stage, whether all the procedures imposed by the applicable legislation have been implemented or carried out in accordance with the applicable legislation. I would sincerely like that, indeed, it is not enough time for all that is the subject of enlargement — not jurisdiction, but workaround — to do, to do, and, of course, not only will it not remain that the report is written, the work done, the consistency, of course, will not. Desire, as it is said, that the matter will come to an end, we will be actively involved in the Desus Group, hoping that such a desire and such interest will be of all other parliamentary parties who have their own members in this and all other parliamentary commissions of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin, you have the floor. Let's get the mags ready. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u49	Hello! If I continue what we started earlier with Member Trčko, it is really strange how this information regarding these millions that have washed through the NLB did not cause any wider shock in this country. That's what worries me the most. More to me than having money washed and having been put in a strange light by Slovenia, more than that, I am concerned that there is no real reaction, that Slovenia has not shivered, that it does not question those involved in these transactions; at least on NLB someone should ask, look for documents, who was the entry point, how these people came into Slovenia and similar stories. This is far more worrying than the fact that this money was washed in the NLB. Because it is clear that when the Iranians were under pressure from the international public, they were looking for all sorts of ways to finance their intelligence network around the world. And of course they got a good platform, a country that is a member of the European Union, an axe fell into their honey and it is clear that they took advantage of this. If you understand their logic, it is difficult to understand the Slovenian reaction. Those who are dealing with this issue a little bit more deeply – we are being approached by a variety of counselors who advise us that, from the perspective of our future political career, it would be wise for us to settle down a little on this topic. Such things only fuel me more so that I speak more clearly and more loudly about these things. And maybe that's funny to someone, but at least I'm the representative of those who claim that if you're threatened, it's the safest thing to reveal these things and whole them, if you want, to tell the world or Slovenian public. That at least those who already have bad plans may be a little concerned if anything happens, but everything will not go so smoothly. And now we come to this point again, which is up to two laws – the Law on Courts – which we have recently filed in New Slovenia for the prosecution of this kind of crime and which, unfortunately, with some strange procedural complication, have once again ended the way in this House and again in some way the spirit of this Iranian story has been repeated in these two laws: when 37 Members support these two laws, and then you have nine Members on the other side, who will stop these two laws. We could also put this story in the context of all these Iranian stories. And what did we want with these two laws? Somebody's gonna say you're discovering hot water. Yeah, we want to bring hot water to Slovenia. If you look at how Italy went after its mafia, then I think that Slovenia should also go after its mafia in this way. The Italians set up special courts, special prosecutors, gave all the support to these judges and prosecutors, all the support; of course, these judges had some concrete results. The sad story in this mob chase is that the vast majority of these prosecutors and judges ended up under fire, bombs by Italian mobsters. But in some ways we can at least see that the state has shown an interest that the country has gone with what could go against these mafia groups. The problem we see is that there is no such great willingness in Slovenia. Look, apart from these three parliamentary commissions now, there are some serious entanglements in the other state bodies that should be dealing with this, not to be felt. It doesn't look like it. This is what I think takes people's hopes in some way; and that is why we have a 43% vote in the presidential elections, because if nothing happens in big fish, then it is clear that people don't trust anyone anymore, we don't believe in anything anymore. They think we're all the same, that it doesn't matter whether they're green, red, yellow, whatever, the result will always be the same. I can't accept this, because I always say that in politics — in the village, in the city, wherever — there are differences between groups and people and that we can't say for anyone that they are all the same and all the same. And in democracy, it's just that the vote decides. And a voice can also punish those who are ineffective, who have failed, improperly run procedures to banish this crime. So here we should take another step forward. Not only by identifying the facts, but perhaps by similar laws as introduced by Nova Slovenija, to force law enforcement authorities or to give them more concrete tools to deal with such crime. One more thing to comment on. Member Trček said: “Tonin, remember that this citizen, who was an alpha and an omega of this business, was responsible or responsible for this business that he was an Iranian with a British passport.” That's right. It is now. That's right. And it is also normal, from the point of view of the Iranian intelligence service, to expect that their agents also have other passports, that other citizens work for their intelligence service. And an Iranian with a British passport was ordered to do this kind of work. That's probably what we both agree on. But one detail, which is very important here, but practically on a platter, is that it is precisely that he is a British citizen that should most likely serve to find as much information as possible in British services. The British must have had the most information on this Farrokhzadeh. Definitely. And before the police made any conclusions, it would be necessary to obtain as much useful information as possible in the British services. As I said, however, it is unusual for the police to conclude that they were extremely intensely fast, in the sense that it was not money laundering. And here's another thing, another topic that would be relevant to enlightening, where police representatives should also be questioned, why they didn't invest any more in obtaining information from partner services, why they hadn't drilled in that direction. These are questions that will also need to be raised on this committee. And another thing that needs to be pointed out is this story is for Slovenia and its foreign policy, nicely put, an unpleasant thing. [[…]] Some of the world's superpowers were certainly not satisfied with this Slovenian role in this Iranian action. Of course, they will not tell us this directly, but the consequences of such actions may be felt in some other activities and positions. And I won't, if I've been honest before, but I've spoken with names and surnames, or with specific stories, the relationship that our services had to the American authorities and their institutions, was, I'll use the word, I'll keep it. [[...]] They didn't give them everything they might have given to some other partner service, and maybe the payday came in case of arbitration, because I think it's weird again that the Americans were one of the fathers of the arbitration agreement. When history is written, it will certainly be clear that the Americans had important fingers in the middle of the fact that both Pahor and Slovenia, and also Croatia, were then encouraged to take the border issue through an arbitration agreement. Finally, he was even the then American ambassador to the headquarters, who then defended the referendum "for". And if you're the father of an agreement, then it's illogical that when it comes to it, you don't support it without saying, "The arbitral tribunal's decision has to be enforced." Here the Americans stood on the Croatian side and I would not rule out the possibility that even because of this role Slovenia played in relation to Iran. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it will come back.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc, prepare the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I must say what I have already thought about in the debate in the act on the determination of the parliamentary inquiry into money laundering, and this is that some of the interpretations at the time, sometimes also some of the interpretations on the investigative committee for banks in the work where members were asking questions at the outset to those who were associated with the New Ljubljana Bank, after the appearance of this information regarding money laundering on New KBM, and also to those who were associated with the New Credit Bank Maribor, especially Mr Kovacic and Hauc, reminds me of a follow-up that revolved around the TV Slovenia some time ago: The Night Receptor. There were elements of this arms trade — with some heroic struggle of the supposed receptor under cover, members of the British government, some other secret services — very similar to what we sometimes hear here in nearly heroic stories by some colleagues about how they face threats to their operations either in one or another in the other investigative commission. If I make a joke, I must say that I envy you such a life, almost like James Bond's life or this night-receptor, but I think it's a lot less film than some people here want to introduce. This is because in some way, as regards NLB, it was discovered that money was being laundered. And if I listen to my colleague Tonin in today's debate, I have to say that I have begun to question the fact that the discovery of this money laundering has indeed taken place in the way we all believed so far, and that is that some expert in the investigation committee for banks in reviewing transactions in the NLB account has found this. In this work, I have to back off or agree with my colleague Trčko's warning when my colleague Tonin warned about the operation or the information that the KNOVS has acquired, to whom, of course, the Investigative Commission for Banks has sent this role, and I wonder if this information has not come from any other circles. But I hope, of course, that the Commission of Inquiry for Money Laundering, if I call it that for a short time, will find this threshold of different people from different political options in different national authorities. So, we're talking about Owl, KNOVS in the National Assembly: who was the director, who was the president, who were the members, how did the government work, who was the president of the state, who was the president of the state, who was the police director; from this point of view it will have to be drawn up for a longer period of time – both for the time when the left governments were in power when the right governments were in power – and here, in particular, I stress this, the SMC was not, therefore, I agree with colleague Möderndorfer that it is appropriate and necessary for him to deal with this matter as the chairman of the commission of inquiry for money laundering, precisely because of, let's say, political impartiality. [[...]] Nor can this political impartiality be met by some suspicion that is being raised by those who say that now the SMC has established its own investigator to investigate its NLB, and of course they do not know how to offer any evidence in this regard, but only some flat-rate convictions regarding the fact that some officials are still sitting there and so on. As at the time, in the debate on the decision-making of the Money Laundering Commission, I supported this decision as a member of the Banks Investigation Commission, and I support this extension act today. The reasons are actually the same as they were then. In this banking or economic work, of course, the reasons for the recapitalisation identified on the investigative commissions for banks and, of course, they are not and cannot be associated with money laundering, because even though, when we are talking about the inflows, the commissions were not, some have been cancelled, it is also necessary to look at the outflows on the other hand; this will also have to be seen by the investigative commission to prevent money laundering and, of course, the need for recapitalisation does not stem from this title. There may have been a decrease in the bank’s business performance from this title or both banks as a result of the reduction of the commission, but this is of course not so linked to the bank’s investigative commission. Although, of course, I never, as a member of this committee, objected to the fact that when we did not have new commissions, this old one, let's say, investigated it, and today, at the hearing of the President of the State, we heard that, of course, the investigative commission for banks is still doing so. The President has received these questions and I must say that the story is not so black and white, according to the President's replies at today's hearing, as some wish to present it in advance – without having the final conclusions that I hope this investigative commission will reach – with a view, of course, to some kind of political abuse or accounting for daily political purposes, because, to remind me, the investigative commission for banks has issued only an interim report. I am promising myself much from the work of the new commission of inquiry to prevent money laundering, regardless of the relative time — compared with the time remaining by the other investigators — short to the regular end of the term of office. I am counting on the accelerated work of this Commission in view of the courage expressed here by some members, both the Vice-President and a colleague here, Tonin, who, of course, will not break under the weight of the various threats that have been discussed. I expect that this will also be possible and, of course, I expect clear answers on the political responsibility of the holders of those powers. There was also a discussion on the credibility of the Investigative Commission to prevent money laundering. I must say that this is quite dependent on the members who work in it, the same is true of the Banks Investigation Commission. And it is interesting to listen in particular to the discussions of members of New Slovenia in relation to which they are very active both in one committee and in the other, as to what they actually tell us, who is using what commission for what. Because if you tried to use a similar argument, as my colleague Tonin has done today, that this investigator is obviously being abused for some protection I don't know who, of course, he doesn't say that, then in fact the NSI could see that this is being misused for attacks on I don't know who and the accumulation of political points. However, I do not think that this should be the case with all things, and that, of course, it is not the case. The credibility of the work of the Commission of Inquiry is primarily borne by the President and, of course, by all other members with their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, get ready for Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that I support the extension of the Commission of Inquiry for Money Laundering to New KBM as well. Of course, at first we had the New Ljubljana Bank, today we are extending to the New Maribor Credit Bank – what is next? Is it even possible that these irregularities have occurred that the law enforcement authorities have not done their part? Here comes the first question. Of course, irregularities have taken place and I believe that we must or should know that we must do everything possible to detect these irregularities, and we sanction them accordingly. In the National Assembly, we already have three committees dealing with this, plus an investigative commission for vascular resistors. I don't know if we're turning this National Assembly into a law enforcement body, because we're just getting more and more Members dealing with other topics than the legislative branch of power. Don't get me wrong, I certainly welcome that. I welcome that, in fact, we are looking for the political responsibility of individuals, but our primary task is the legislative branch of power. As we have seen so far, an existing parliamentary investigation has shown that there have been irregularities and unusual operations in banks and there is a reasonable suspicion of illegal activities. Even in this second largest Slovenian bank, Novi KMB, this has happened as it appears; there are suspicions of criminal services. The new KBM was recapitalised by taxpayers for €870 million and sold for only €250 million. Where this difference is, the question arises and people really expect the answer to the question where this money is, whether this money is a customer's profit. The undeniable fact is that this business at the New Credit Bank Maribor, which was carried out, was a bad business. The suspicious transactions that have taken place are also more than clear. At the same time, the question arises as to who has failed here — whether the employees have been denied or have failed the leadership, administration, or oversight. As far as I have information, officials or experts have identified, perceived irregularities, large transactions that occurred in Italy’s non-profit, giving further information, somehow this information was not lurking on the right door. Whether there's been any detention here for any reason, I can't say that, but I believe that a lot of things will come up during all the hearings. That is why the parliamentary commission will also hear a lot of people, and I believe that a lot of employees will have a lot to say. In New KBM itself, a lot has been going on over the last few years. Some people had to leave their jobs. For whatever reason, I can't tell you right now. There were new people. I'm wondering if these new people had enough knowledge at all. Balances should be able to read. Did they have the relevant knowledge under the Banking Act? When I was preparing for this agenda item, I must say that I dared to look at the bank's business reports: 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016. And what did I find? In the boards and in the control councils, one and the same people circled. This is also a sign that something is being hidden, at least there are suspicions of concealing certain irregularities. They also experienced irregularities of subordinates, cautioned, and audit reports were being prepared. Were the audit reports credible? I also have a question here, because an independent institution should be an audit house. So there's a lot of trouble in this place. However, if I look at relations within employees in essence; the mutual accusations, the relationship between the then President of the administration of Aleš Hauc and the then Commissioner of Vesna Rožanc at a meeting of the competent Finance Committee, which considered extending the Commission's powers to New KBM, suggest that the system of prevention of abuses in New KBM did not work. There have been disagreements, and if there are disagreements, it is not possible for such a system to work. We also have a case for the Commission to prevent corruption. There, too, we find that the system does not work properly. And in these places, the leading people must ask themselves, Are we right for this? Is it necessary to leave this place? We are here today to extend the Commission of Inquiry for Money Laundering, which first started dealing with the New Ljubljana Bank, to New KBM. Indeed, money was less estranged, but it is so much more important, for for every estranged taxpayer’s money is crucial to finding out who he went to, for what purpose. And here's our job to put an end to this. However, I must say that our legislation is not bad, only the competent institutions are not doing it properly, are not accurate enough, or are also suspected of being connected and act corruptly, briefly. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u55	Thank you for your word. All of a sudden, we'll all be doctors, and only, I'd be very happy, but with good doctorates. I'm listening to all this together and I'm basically looking at an empty hall. This is the story that SDS wants to run elections on; legally, legitimately, there is no problem. We agree that this is unacceptable. I, too, can use the word Maribor a few times and say that I moved to Maribor, I live in Maribor, I was elected to Maribor, and I want to grow old in Maribor, but it is, of course, unacceptable, as Bojana said, that the bank that we finance so much sell for such a small percentage of booking or book, as it is said. We will probably need an investigative commission around a bad bank in the next call by the National Assembly. It is also unacceptable that, at such discount rates, matters have been discounted. The people who warned them said to them once or twice, "Look, be quiet or the book." Slovenia is small enough to know about it. I'm not allowed to talk about names because some people at the bank in Maribor are going to lose their jobs because of this. These are the facts. From Maribor We know this and sadden me – I am the only opposition Member here from Maribor – that the coalition part of Maribor did not take it any more and explore it. Let me say a very nice Mariborian said that we are ourselves the worst Ljubljana. In this case, that's what he's holding. A little less of Trstenjak's would not happen to anyone else with the Maribor Bank. It was not just by chance that I mentioned these three great technologies of Slovenian politics. Look, after a quarter of a century, it should become clear to us that of course certain people have gone into transition with a very clear purpose. We didn't go into transition, we didn't go into a change of system, we went into independence just to be on our own, but that some gentlemen would do what I or what we in Levica call paide-pleniline feudalisation. After all, weber, a colleague from SD, has been talking about this ever since he decided to clean up, writing, publishing on Facebook and elsewhere. These are some facts that, as I said before, we're going to face or not. According to some of this state of Slovenia, but you know, it's a very clear indicator, but you're a serious politician or not, but you're serious about it or not – if no one has ever threatened you with death, you haven't. I mean, unfortunately, this is the situation in this society and this system, it's not that big a deal. In this way, they're kind of weighing you down, actually, to be honest. Of course, all these investigative committees are also difficult to pedal if you are a relatively small parliamentary group. We had Hanzka, who then went a little further to enjoy part of his own, who was already completely preoccupied with an important investigator, we have KNOVS, which is specific; we try to cover everything, but let's be honest – if we were more serious, we could have some investigator or two even less. If the investigation teams were really our investigation teams. Normally, the investigation team gets the president's name, and we'll have Jani's, and we have Logar's, and colleague Godec has braces and so on. And then often these colleagues get a little carried away when they talk, and then my investigator goes up and down. Frankly, if the investigator, so-called Logareva, had been slightly less party-oriented, those investigators could cover much of this spectrum and deal with it. But of course it's part of political games, fighting up and down, and it's also going the way it's actually going. Somehow I would not agree with a colleague who spoke before me that our primary purpose is to do good legislation. We often even “stand” too much legislation, frankly. I have said on several occasions that I would like to be in the calling of the National Assembly, which would adopt at least new legislation. There are at least two very important areas. One area, of course, is the recruitment that is in the hands of the policy, which is still going on in a way that SMC has learned very quickly – from our quotas. Or when that gentleman from Desus said in the state forests, "I am in heaven." I am afraid that we will also get an investigative commission on what is happening in the state forests in the next term, because it is changing into an ever-increasing Islamistry that some have warned about. And then here I agree with Bojana, when you look, wait, so what are we, some kind of hidden branch, a third branch of power? [[…]] But it's because of irresponsible policies, it's because of this feudalism that I'm essentially calling it. And, of course, given the crossing, let's be honest – here from Commissioner Han there to Ambassador Grims you are a team that you have been doing this for a quarter of a century in such or other combinations. Well, then NSI cooked up under Demos that we were running out of SDK, and Peterlet was then, in his own words, shitting for some denationalisation, that Germany wasn't so rich that it could afford it. These are the facts. It's not a political push. Okay, well, then somehow there's a SMC in here that's quick to learn the business, and it's also humanizing, and you're not. That a lady whose mandate can be counted in the hours that forged the Master's Office will change her last name and then you run for a relatively important post. What am I supposed to tell my students in Maribor on Wednesday? Kids, stop, stop studying so much, write something down. Don't be a fool like me. You know, and these are basically problems. But when the left touches to seriously go SDH control, no, you always run us over. Of course, because that's right for everyone who's involved in this looting. And that's basically the problem. Or I can go to the Maribor Congregation. Just like Bojana said, because that's what Dr. Dobovšek, the spinner, would say. And this wheel has been going on for a quarter of a century. When you're in the opposition, you're Miro Cerar, and you're moralizing through city halls somewhere else, but when you're in power, and I'm not gonna put my hand in the fire, so that even from my pubes a little older from the Left, someone gets into their shoes, that wouldn't stop him. [[…]] But we have to stop it, we have to stop it, and we have to put in place the appropriate controls. After all – and I'm from the Left – he pays these people well enough not to be bought then, I don't know. It's not meant to be in the control system that you're going to fix your vacation a little bit. And these are the facts that we must address, and unfortunately this mandate is a lost mandate in this respect. There is a lost mandate in some future development strategies and is lost in this and I hope that we will be in the next [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Well, I don't know if we're dealing with SDS today or dealing with a problem called money laundering and shit that's been going on in the banking system. It is amazing that I listened to SMC first today: Today’s debate is the pain of SDS. Are you kidding around here? Do you know what we're even discussing today? Is it wrong and wrong if we want to investigate this mess that cost our taxpayers, I don't know how many billion euros? Not to mention the money laundering that happened that should never have happened. So is that SDS pain? Is the coalition’s problem in this – and also this investigative commission led by Möderndorfer – that there is no one from the SDS in the pigsty that took place in the Ljubljana Bank? And now, in any way, you have to do something, whatever, the construct, combine the story, so that somewhere you just find someone from the SDS, to be able to say, they're all the same bastards and they're all broken, etc., what this is doing, I'm going to say, a directed left-wing team from the background. And I'm not saying that everyone sitting here today is responsible for this. Some of you certainly don't. You have nothing to do with this. But those uncles in the background who direct it know exactly what they're doing. What makes you think Mr. Möderndorfer is the chairman of this commission? Today someone said, I think even Möderndorfer didn't. One other gentleman from SMC, that's Aha, that SMC is the party that's unobstructed and wasn't in the National Assembly when these jobs and these pigs were happening. [[…]] Yeah, that's all there is to it. However, you did not say that Jani Möderndorfer was already in the National Assembly – in all parties where possible. And he's the one who could be called an impartial person?Oh, my God! Don't make fun of me, but don't be a direct fool of the Slovenian people. Please, SMCs, those of you who are here today and who are listening to me, let me clear this up first. Why did Jani Möderndorfer even come to the SMC? I'll tell you why he came. In order to attack the SDS, they would never accept it between us. But you didn't make that decision in the parliamentary group, none. This was decided by others in the background. That's embarrassing. And in this situation, when we have such terrible problems in this financial system and we should really get to the bottom of it, why there was a bank hole, what was going on in all these banks, what kind of bandits were in here, so that they could steal everything, until now, no epilogue. And if it had not been for the Logar Commission, namely the Anžet Logar, who runs this commission of inquiry, it would never have been possible for the Ljubljana Bank to have washed a billion euros. And these are commissions from 15 to 60 percent. Tell me where that money went! With what money you buy – those uncles buy from behind – the media and so on, Youth and so on. You're the one who figured out how to finance things, and you don't think that's a big deal. You don't think that's a big deal. And how long are we here in Parliament to talk one more time and work another? Slovenians and Slovenians expect us to make moves and that these damned bastards, who, if you'll excuse the expression, will practically waste this country and lead this country to a debt of 33 billion or 32 billion at the moment, or 33 to pay one billion, but I don't know how much interest per year we need 4 to 5% of the positive gross social product to cover interest alone, while the state of 2008 when we ran the government of SDS – 7.8 billion was in debt, I think somewhere and look where we came from. [[…]] And you rule left and right all the time. And you're not all bad. I would really ask that in this Slovenia we find so much power and come together those who are involved in the matter, that even those who are among you and who are corrupt, who are working against the interests of the people, are excluded from our midst. Let's rule out. But as long as we sit with them in the same group, believe me, this epilogue is not going to happen. And Slovenians and Slovenians can't watch this anymore. Yesterday you had a great opportunity to see what the election was like in the presidential elections. That's embarrassing, that's amazing. We brought the Slovenian people so far that they said, "Look, we can't watch you anymore." Just get out of here so we don't see you packing up, and we'll send you on a train and I don't know where you are, because you're hurting us. That's why people don't go to elections. But those who want to prove that we are not equal to those who do this, that people are so apathetic, are trying to stop us in every way. And this commission of inquiry led by Jani Möderndorfer, who is a total man who could say in advance if he could go to so many parties, you know that such a man is not a moral authority, that you can't believe that man's word, or even if he tells you that he's out of the sun and you look out, even if you see the sun, you don't believe your own eyes that he is. And then you tell us about credibility, about impartiality and so on. And how can you convince me, my dear colleagues here at the National Assembly? How can we together convince the Slovenian public that we are dealing with the solution to what the bandits have done in our banks, those bandits who have received the commission of a billion euros out of it, that is, billions of euros for Iran, because it went money for terrorism and I don't know where? Where that money went, that's a fundamental and crucial question. It is not a crucial question of what Mrs Muršič said about the fact that someone was recruiting one, that someone was recruiting another, and so on. What does that have to do with anything? That's totally, I'm gonna say I'm not gonna say anything, I'm not gonna use an ugly term. Total talk that has nothing to do with it, nothing to do with money laundering. Only in the part where it's the responsibility of those who were the bosses, the bosses, and so on. We know who this is. It's about supervisors, it's about administrations and so on. And at this point, it should be a priority for us. And Anget's commission, which brings this story, leads with greatness. And I think that even in the coalition with a lot of colleagues I talked to, who said, "Look, Marian, you have every honour, but here things are going in the right direction." [[…]] And as you can see, some — not you who are sitting here today — certainly not you, but those in the background who have gone out or have uncles on their backs — want nothing to happen. But they will do anything, and they will blur out everything that is possible at that time, to show that we are all bastards in this country. And we're not all bastards. Please, I don't know how long I've been warning the Slovenian public that this isn't the case. And I know that honest people are also on the left. You are, some certainly, because I know individuals. But it's a very big problem, and I have a very big problem, and I've said it a lot of times in public, and this time I'll say that while you're sitting with a team like this, then inside this team is the problem, because you just don't have any chance of reacting the way you want. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am sure and I hope to say this in front of the entire Slovenian public, I have said this a thousand times, that we are doing well, that we are working in the interest of the State and that you will not find any among these bandits in the Ljubljana Bank. Not one. And that's the pain of Janius Möderndorfer and the uncles who put the backpack on his shoulder because he has to say here what I think someone wants him to say. I don't know if I can say this a hundred percent because I'd never let anyone say I'm definitely saying that, but I guess that's true. And then I don't believe a story like that. Of course, as has already been said, we will not object because we have no problem with this in this context. In the Maribor bank, whatever was broken, any thief, whatever bad he did, I am sure, even at the discretion of my fellow Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, must go where he belongs. Our authorities should have done this a long time ago without talking to us about these two, three million here in the National Assembly. That doesn't belong here. This belongs to the investigating authorities. However, when it comes to a billion euro of laundered money, I am sure it is right that we are speaking very widely and very loudly here. And we warn those organs and all those who should do their job to do it. If not, they should be punished — whether it's the chief of police or it's Klemenčič or Borut Pahor or it's St. Peter — I don't care. It doesn't matter! They all need to be locked down, all of them. And only then will the Slovenian people say: Marijan Pojbič, all honor to you. It doesn't matter how you talk, what you say at home, but you're telling the truth. People know that I live for truth and honesty, and they know that. And I wish that everyone sitting here in this House would also have this confidence from the Slovenian people. Then it is only together that we can expect this country to take a step where we all wanted it together when we conquered this country. But not to allow what's happening to anyone for a bank hole, I don't know how many billions we've put in banks, look, nobody's responsible for that. Everything is being done to make everything obsolete so that all the papers will disappear. In a good one year, all the papers will disappear because the bank can destroy them. How much longer are we gonna let this happen? How much longer are we going to be assisting these things? How long, my dear friends, do I ask you? But you know that we have grandchildren, we have children, and so on, that we realize that the country has to survive. And we are obliged to take care of this, because it is only here that the state can function on some healthy foundations, because we will not have ours, yours, those, thirds, I don't know which, first-class, second-class because Jankovic won't write off his earrings, and they will write off 16 million money and so on, and for someone 250 or 300 euros to sell the house. [[…]] [[…]] This was the last time my colleague Vinko Gorenak spoke, who was right because it was true. What kind of country are we? And it's the same story. If someone put 300 or 400 million laundered money in their pockets, we need to know who that bastard is. Everyone in here needs to help us get to the bottom of this. And Möderndorfer, who just walked in, has to help. But not to do everything to relativize this matter and to blur things out and hide things. And just because he's running a direct political race against the SDS, that's why he came to SMC, a direct pursuit against the SDS, which is why SMC accepted him. And today, because Jani is here now, it is right to tell him that he is in a party that is the most impartial and he can very impartially lead this story as President of this Commission. Jani, how many clients have you been to? I'm asking you, and then please answer me. How can you be impartial? And how can anyone believe that? Tell me, who? He's not here. My five-year-old granddaughter, when I tell her about Janie Möderndorfer, has long hair up to here, and she's so awake, my dear Jani Möderndorfer. And it's not embarrassing for you to allow yourself to do things like this and get into things where we know in advance that one and the only key objective is to attack the SDS. You don't care. You don't care about the content. I'm telling you the truth. Now I'm talking to you like Marian Pojbich thinks. You don't care about this content. If I did, I'd give Angie Logar support so he can take the matter to the end because he's taking it top-notch. 'Cause she's driving her high. Only this committee has reached some conclusions so far. This government has five and a half months to complete its mandate. What do you think he can do at this time except that Jani Möderndorfer will find one in New KBM, who may or may not have been a member of the SDS, and prepare the story so far as he can at the end, when we take the final report, say, "No, look, my dears, yeah, someone was also with the SDS, so they're all the same bastards." This has to be cut. This needs to be said to the Slovenian people publicly, loudly and responsibly. For such Members, such investigative commissions, which we pay specifically, it is not right to have them. It's not right, because they're doing damage, not good. People want to, Slovenes and Slovenians want us to look into it and get to the bottom of this. It's how they want it, and so am I, and my client will do anything to make it so. But we don't want anyone to have one, and we don't want someone to exercise in their hands just to try and stop these things. Back here, you're SMC statisticians and everyone who's in the coalition. You help here, and you know in advance that within five months this commission can do nothing. How long has Logar's committee been struggling? How many times has she been prevented from obtaining documents? The judges objected, the police, I don't know who all of them are. They didn't want to hand over the documents and so on. But despite this, persistence has paid off and today we have things researched, and now Jani Möderndorfer will explore what has already been researched. I mean, where do we live? I mean, really, where do we live? And in the end, he'll get paid pretty well. In the end, I don't know how much he makes as chairman of the commission. Let the Slovenian public know that. I mean, by God, well, what are we actually doing here? What are we doing here? Once again, the Logar Commission has already identified irregularities and there is no problem in extending the powers of this Commission. Why not? No problem. Any way. In any direction, because he has already laid the groundwork for it. And we need one commission that would do anything here not to investigate it and not bring bandits to justice It's what bothers me terribly. [[...]] All the time. I am becoming increasingly disappointed with this policy of the most ethical party. Really. And everyone else. The SD was everywhere, too, in every story. In each one! In Maribor, who had the President of the Talum Supervisory Board, how that gentleman was written, the Director of Taluma, who was at the time the most difficult things were happening in Maribor, the head of the Supervisory Board or what is called that body, I think the Supervisory Board. He was President, Mr, who was Director of Taluma and an extremely large member of the SD. And, my dears, is it a problem that these people don't come to the surface to see who they are, or is that why you're doing this story so that people don't get this information? Today I have heard that the KNOVS do not know who are not the ones through which the information on what Mr Tonin said is supposed to come. Danilo Toplek, exactly, he was the president of the supervisory board, your first-class member, first-class; you know that, and you can all laugh because I know why I'm saying this, and I can't speak here publicly right now, because you have to have written evidence in your hand. But I know what things were going on and what was going on and why the story had come to light that he had become president of the Governing Council — a member of the SD, a visible, truly visible member and not to mention. So I say, look, this story of these coalitions has such a long beard, that's right. But I never said if anyone from any party, including ours, has to be punished, he has to be punished, not imprisoned illegally, and they destroy the hearings of others! [[…]] Where did you see this, and what kind of god is this country? Ask my people up there, come up to the Slovenian mountains around there – in Prekmurje, Pomurje, Prlecija and so on –; people cross and therefore people do not go to the elections anymore because they said: Marian, for nothing helps, because you tell the truth, but you can do nothing because the Esdees are too few, you can do nothing. And that's the problem and in all subsystems we have the same problems; in health we have the same problem, corruption itself, and in social life you have the same story that the SD has in full control, when it's like one mold, like a ball inside, that's how the SD has social control. And how much money goes down there and no epilogue reacts! And you go to these social work centers and you ask, and they say, "Yeah, don't talk to me about politics, just not politics, but don't talk to me about SD." People are scared, people can't function normally anymore, people can't live normally, they don't hope to say anything to anyone, because the Ministry comes under terrible pressure afterwards. And so on. I think it is now in this democratic state – 25 years of age or more – to say stop to those devils who are destroying us; they are destroying me and my children are destroying my grandchildren. And I'm not going to let that happen until I have a tongue that's so full that I can speak until I've lost it. After everything I've been threatened with, it's supposed to be nothing new. And who threatened me? I'm sure you know who: the mafia structures that come from the teams that sit in here have threatened me three times already. But I say it publicly, I'm not afraid of them, because they're "walkers" because they don't have eggs, because they don't hope to come out of their eyes into the eyes, because at night they do dirty things around the house. It's a dirty, dirty mob that should have been shut down long ago where it belongs. And I hear that the Lord is reporting to Slovenia, which is called Zidar - Chil, healthy, and not knowing everything; how many things has he done in this country? What has happened to him? [[…]] What happened to him, I ask you, the ones you have to practice in your hands, what happened to him?Oh, my God! And who are the ones that this Zidard was carrying in their pockets, who? And who are the ones who got the money from what I'm saying out of this laundered money through NLB? The NLB is an ATM where these bandits can take whatever they want; tomorrow it goes, only raises as much money as it suits them, no responsibility, because no one controls what's going on in this bank. We can have the institutions we want, if they're all connected. But if someone doesn't, they have to fly right now, or the car hits him or falls off a ladder or someone rides him on a bike and so on and so on. What kind of company are we? How long are we gonna tolerate this, for God's sake? My dears, how long? Because it's not just about me. It touches all of you because you all have children, you all have grandchildren, you all have and so on. [[…]] All of you, no matter who's in which party. I don't want to talk about myself today but I want to talk about SDS, I'm talking about everything. All those who are responsible for stopping this shit. And then let's not allow ourselves to blurt out what we don't need. We are on the road that we have drawn; where we have the opportunity, we are expanding the investigation and we are going with this commission to the end – these five months as far as we have to go – except that the President is now receiving a nice fee along with him, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, because he is President. At the end of the day, there'll be nothing! Except for what I said earlier, why this committee was appointed. For a direct political budget with a SDS party. Direct! And that is why he sits in the SMC Group, because that is not how most members of this Group should feel about him. I know that because people tell me that, and it's the truth. After that, you know what happens in our society. So someone can get you something without you agreeing to it. These are sad things, but that's right. That's right. And I am against the establishment of a commission aimed only at dealing with one another. And if it were on our side, it would be the same story, it wouldn't be fair. It wouldn't be fair! Any one of them. We have to solve the problem. The problem that is in this country, which is a distinct one, is unacceptable, which is extremely unacceptable to our people. And we have to and we owe it to each other to call it and make it all over. The way things are going now, we're not going to do that. Absolutely not. And here I hear you can say, "Whoever you want, you can talk," and you can read five novels here; I know exactly what this is about, and my people know what it is." He knows what's going on. And they also know why this committee was set up. To try to stop these things from really getting to the end on one side, and on the other hand, to try to find any one, just by chance, who happens to be a member of the SDS and pull him into this mess to say, "Oh, all the customers are in there." Because now you don't have that option because there's no one in this shit. This is a mess that the entire Slovenian public knows about. Why don't we make it public? Why not? Why don't we expose those who are in these games, I'm not gonna say some, they're involved! They're cooperating! And it is right to reveal this to the Slovenian people. It's right for the people to know. And I know it's very hard for most people here to listen to what I'm saying. But I will do everything in my power to make the Slovenian people know the real truth. And when the nation is really on the verge of these bandits, these bastards and those who hold the stall from behind and put people at the forefront who just have to do what they ask them to do in order for this to end. I will try, I am sure, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are getting the most involved in making this happen once in a really long time to make Slovenia a real Slovenia, to make Slovenia a country where Slovenia and Slovenians would like to live. Because every year 8,000 young people, highly educated, would not leave Slovenia. And you ask him, "Why are you going out?" He says, "I don't have a chance here. No stories. This government boasts of what it has done to keep people busy, to keep them busy, and so on. [[…]] What did she do? What are the opportunities for young people who are highly educated to reach well-paid jobs with higher added value? Like what? What happened to that? What's invested in the economy and so on and so forth, I'm not going too far now. It's all connected anyway: the economy, the financial system and so on, the banks, the money from here to that company and so on, it's all connected. And it can't come from here to there if they're not connected in a corrupt way, a corrupt way, in a corrupt way, and with theft. We have to, and we have to, and once again I stress, bring these damn bandits to justice, we have to! This is our task, this is our duty, this is our responsibility, this is what Slovenians and Slovenians expect of us. They believe in some at least; they do not believe in some because they do not see them, but they have been chosen, because if you are chosen, you are chosen. I have no influence on this too, but I try to convince people and tell the Slovenian public in such a way that they understand very domestically, that we know what is right and what is wrong with them being able to separate. Slovenians are a smart nation. All over the world, wherever you come from, they're extremely recognizable. And what's in there would be nice if we had them here. Here, however, because of this left-wing corrupt policy, this country makes it impossible for them to develop normally, and this is swine fever, unacceptable, extremely harmful. And I hope that at some point it'll be over and that the money that the bastards stole from him, I don't know how many billions, outside our borders, will bring that money back. I also ask in public, in front of the entire Slovenian public, to tell me when the epilogue will be against the Zidar. When are they gonna bring him to Slovenia to answer for his shit? When? He'll die sooner, you mean, or what? Catastrophe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Replica [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Replica has the advantage. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, Magus Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u59	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. My esteemed colleague may have misunderstood me or may not have understood my interpretation of the fact that human resources have an impact on money laundering. Of course he does. Besides, he mentioned that he didn't have it, but he does. I am talking about these key human resources structures, so to speak, about governance and the supervisory council. If people circulate in 2014, 2015 in the administration and then in 2016 in the control world, this is unacceptable to me. [[advertising from the hall]] For this reason, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Listen to me to the end. I listened to you the whole time you were talking, and now I'm talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u60	Mr. Marian, please, if you'll just wait until it's over.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u61	Please allow me to give you [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] explain how I interpreted it. [[…]] We must therefore be aware that the Administration has been aware of money laundering, but has not acted accordingly. That was my purpose, and that's why it's very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Of course, I must say, Mr Marijan Pojbič, that such a personal attack on a colleague who has been elected like everyone else in this National Assembly is of course not the most agreeable way of debate, but, above all, not because Mr Jani has just received what belongs to him under our rules in the National Assembly. As for the costs, you know that Mr Logar has asked for an increase in costs and we have approved it because he has defined it professionally. He said he needed professional help, and that's so I don't know what that attack was. [[…]] I don't think it was very nice, but good. Mr Jani Möderndorfer, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, we are already accustomed to discussing the same thing at every session under each item, regardless of the title and content. And in fact, I wouldn't even discuss it when my colleague Pojbič called, but because he was talking nonsense, lies and nonsense, he had to react because of the Slovenian public. One of the claims was that I have been here for four terms and that I am a Member with a mission and I do not know what else to do with SDS. I don't want to deal with SDS, my friend Pojbič, I don't have that interest. I've known a lot of people in your client more than you know. But it's a fact that I'm not in this National Assembly, but you're four mandates, that's true, since 2004. And that's why you don't mix your own complexes or your personal dissatisfaction to project on me, because I've only been here since 2011 and not since 2004. So I wonder what you've been doing in these four mandates when you have such serious problems that you haven't been able to fix everything. I get the same salary as you, with the addition, like all the other committee presidents, the committees, like you. No more, not even the euro. So if you're reading anything to me, you must first read it in your own kind. Besides, I don't even know why that would be obvious, but you're having some trouble with me personally. But just so we're clear, mate Pojbicz, if you have problems with me alone, I'm the luckiest man in the world, because then I know that no content is back there, but really none, because you're only dealing with me and my discredit, and if that's for your pleasure, go ahead. You can continue every term, every session, every hour, just leave people, don't bother them too much with their "wrath" because it's tiring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word has been given to you, sir. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, but I'm asking you nicely to make this a personal account. Here you go, Mr. Marijan Pojbich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u65	Mr President, I would like to make a procedural suggestion that you should warn Mr Möderndorfer that he did not understand my debate. Unfortunately, he didn't understand. He didn't understand today, he didn't understand yesterday, he didn't understand six months ago. But if I said that he was four in the National Assembly and he was in three parties, I apologize for that if I said wrong that he had four mandates, but he himself said he had two seats; in three parties, that he was.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u67	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the light of the extension of the powers of the commission investigating money laundering from the New Bank of Ljubljana to the New Bank of Maribor, I would just like to point out that we need to be extremely careful that, due to the duplication of competences of the existing commission to investigate the bank hole, there are later procedural problems that some process has been breached and, of course, the excuse of those who are supposed to be involved in this washing is that there was again a mistake in the process, which is very often in Slovenia in these principles of investigating these crimes. However, I would like to remind and draw attention very briefly to the fact that I have already filed a criminal complaint – both to the police and, of course, to the Court of Auditors and to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption – for the New Bank of Credit Maribor and the New Bank of Ljubljana. But you note that in fact, some find that the Court of Auditors has no jurisdiction, perhaps after this last amendment of the Banking Act, this will change, but the KPK has no answer yet, and the police also obviously find no reason to intervene more quickly in this business, the club by getting information daily on how extensive irregularities have gone and are written down not only in our own media but also in international media. And that's what we have to worry about for sure; every body should do its job and then it wouldn't come to that. However, the fact is that we even had as bad a bank as the Slovenian State holding company as the two institutions that were actually set up for this – what I described years ago when this was being established – to make centuries-old places. In fact, this is also confirmed in practice at every step. I was very surprised to learn that even in the last amendment of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, neither SDH nor the bad bank – DUTB – were committed to reporting money laundering. How is that possible? The bill is proposed by the Ministry of Finance, within the Ministry of Finance, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering operates, and in these two institutions there is no reason for these two institutions to become also obliged to report on the prevention of money laundering. This says much about the fact that we also have a completely wrong or obviously planned approach, that only one Ministry of Finance is responsible for the entire property or property that is supposed to be state-owned. But if we go deeper, we'll find that there's no state property in the constitution at all, and it's our common private property. And this is actually done without people's consent, and this is the problem – if people agreed to do something or not, they would certainly have broken all these principles in the field already, but this has obviously also happened for some clear reason that money laundering is actually happening in the entire ownership scheme and so-called privatisation. On all of these matters, just for a little while. The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia can already publish and obtain all data from tax havens. Why do we not have this information, who has the resources in the tax havens? This is the first important information that can help us to avoid such cases, as it is the growing number of indicators that it is with money from tax havens that, of course, buys off businesses that are sold through bad banks, the credit stays on the shoulders of citizens and citizens, and the cleaned company then this same owner tries to buy through tax oasis. And this is a clear example of money laundering and all of this is practically intact in these procedures that I mention. Therefore, if we want to take a concrete step forward, it will not only be necessary to re-establish a new form of the former SDK in Slovenia, but also the financial police, who will monitor it, but not that the financial management will be pursuing a defence that sells petersils. This is now that scale and this task that shrinks to those most vulnerable groups of people and the rest washes peacefully.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Most of the time it was heard here, mainly by my colleague Trček and my colleague Möderndorfer, that the Slovenian Democratic Party apparently chose the topic of money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank as the theme for the presidential elections, parliamentary elections, etc. I think that says more about these authors who say such words. If we were a normal country, for the first time, all political parties competing and competing for votes would choose this topic and talk about it in confrontations, on, say, these pre-election battles. And the other thing that we are not witnessing is that the media should choose the subject of billions of money laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank as one of the main topics, not just to mention it to the President of the State, and they are pleased with the answer: "I did not know that at the time, my National Security Advisor did not warn me about this." And of course, the citizens clearly support this, and some also, by what Mr Pojbič said, by not participating in the elections, communicate what they think. We're talking about 15 million laundered in the NKBM, to be washed by the Italian mafia. We know what the mob is up to. However, I have not yet seen where the Italian mafia would deal with proliferation or terrorism, because as a point of view, as an explanation for the expansion of this commission of inquiry led by Mr Möderndorfer, you have also written down alleged financing or money laundering, including for the purposes of terrorism. Only that it went to the New Ljubljana Bank for Money Laundering for Proliferation, Financing Terrorism, and that we can see that Iran is probably all these rockets that are being tested today and its rocket program that it represents and that is far from the agreement that it has concluded that it can also do so because of the activities that have taken place in the New Ljubljana Bank, and especially because of those that have allowed this to happen. I spoke to one of the bankers on Saturday, not the Ljubljana Bank, but elsewhere. I asked him honestly if he knew about this case, he said, "No, I didn't know because I wasn't on NLB, but if I was on NLB, I'd know a hundred percent about this." And given his knowledge of the banking system – which is high in the Slovenian banking system in one of the banks – he told me that many people obviously had to know about this case within the NLB, but obviously it was paid silently, the question is only at what price – either with money or threats and so on. Earlier, colleague Möderndorfer had said that this was clearly a personal account between Mr Janša and Mr Goran Klemenčič, that Mr Janša had already announced this when he said that he would use all funds against Minister Klemenčič or against that report on alleged assets of illegal origin, which Mr Janša had explained several times. And Möderndorfer here skillfully manipulated those words because he didn't say the point. Mr. Janez Janša did not say that he would fight with all means, but he also added two adjectives, which are essential and help to understand the means involved. He said he would fight with legal and political means. By legal and political means, which, for the first time, is legitimate, and for the second time absolutely legal. He will not go to those funds, as he said at one round table – I think somewhere in Novi Gorica – the former president of this country Milan Kučan, to act on principle: first discreditation, later liquidation, if necessary, even physical. It's not about these funds, it's about the legal and political resources that are allowed in our country. But your government has the Minister of Justice, who has done nothing, even helped with the drafting of documents, as the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services found in the report, which we have confirmed by all Members, both coalition and opposition, as well as those from the opposition in position, and you have such a minister to continue. Or maybe now you're trying to get rid of him. But how are you gonna get rid of him? By sending him to an excellently paid position, I think the Commissioner for Human Rights to the Council of Europe. Really. The man who, by his actions or better said, did not act when he was supposed to act, but in particular acted in the wrong way where he had already acted, certainly helped to ensure that people around the world died when the Iranian agency was being financed, when the Islamic Republic of Iran’s dirty business was being financed, when it financed the production of nuclear weapons, weapons of mass destruction – and Iran is therefore well on the way to gaining it – you will send him to the Ombudsman or Commissioner for Human Rights. If this is not a mockery of all citizens and citizens, not just Slovenia, the whole European Union. Look, really. But, of course, the gentleman did not complete the function at the KPK, because he left earlier, he will not now complete the minister's post, because he will leave first. Well, the question is how will the service of the Commissioner for Human Rights be handled now that Europe is also discussing this billion laundered money in the New Ljubljana Bank in the European Parliament and when the role of the Minister of Justice, then the head of the KPK mags, be known. Goran Klemenčič. The saddest part is that three months since this commission of inquiry for money laundering in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, nothing has happened in three months. Now it has started with some hearings by some experts, supposed experts, some experts, that – as formerly said by colleague Möderndorfer – set up some framework, some concept that some basic concepts would be clarified. But it's a little tragic to watch those hearings; we see how that goes. And interestingly, everything is going in this direction; in the beginning it was the same with the commission led by Mr Hanžek, that is to say, with the committee on finding out the irregularities in the TES 6 project, when everything wanted to be done by the Slovenian Democratic Party, now that this commission has started work or now that it is going to the end, it was seen that it has nothing to do with this and that it is known where again – at the party of the Social Democrats – those who have their fingers deep in marmalade that the Social Democrats are those who have apparently deep fingers in marmalade as well as the affairs of Money Laundering in the New Ljubljana Bank. But if you're in the right party, if you're in the right position, then you're protected, you're first-rate, nothing can happen to you. Now you will investigate these 15 million euros of alleged laundering by the Italian mafia, which is, of course, the right thing to do, and no one will take the initiative to investigate, but what is behind it, that Zoran Jankovic, his family, had normally written off 16 million euros. So, for 15 million euros, we're going to extend the Commission of Inquiry, and for 16 million euros overnight, there's no question. But if we ask in esdees, where we're the only ones who ask about it, who ask for explanations, you're still saying that everything is political. It is logical that it is political, ladies and gentlemen, because we are politicians. It can't be anything but political. All bodies, including within this House, are politically guided because we are politicians, not experts. The expert who comes into this Parliament and becomes a Member is no longer an expert at that time, but is a politician and is his opinions, which he represents as a representative of a particular political option, the parties in particular, if you want, are political views, are political principles and it is all political. And what's gonna happen? A good half year is until the parliamentary elections. The question is what will come to the conclusion of this commission of inquiry. We have questioned or questioned its establishment because it is unnecessary because it is pointless because they are the commissions run by the Magi. Branko Grims and Dr. Ange Logar already figured out what it was about and how the money was washed in the NLB. In particular, we have names and surnames, and they have been listed several times in this National Assembly. But nothing happens. Even if these recommendations, adopted unanimously by the National Assembly, have been sent to the prosecution and the law enforcement authorities, nothing will happen because, ladies and gentlemen, if someone can operate a billion euro in the largest state bank for a country under international sanctions, which is on the list of supporters of terrorism — her bank — if someone can do so without coming out until the Anjet Commission has found inside the reports they received from the New Ljubljana Bank, then believe me that this network, which operates this billion, has 300, 400 million euro commissions in its pockets, to influence any investigation into any process. You know, here's concrete evidence of what was happening, what wasn't happening, are concrete names, who had to do something, should have, but it's not, it's a waiver of duty, it's true for everyone who was then informed. I can't say, "Oh, as Prime Minister, I got this information from the National Security Advisor and I believed that the Anti-Money Laundering Office was dealing with it." At the moment when Borut Pahor as Prime Minister learned what was going on, he should immediately refer to the National Security Council and consult his colleagues both in the European Union and in relation to NATO. And since he did not act, of course, he could still launder money after that. To be exact, a billion 200 million dollars or a billion euros, because we often hear that billions of dollars have been washed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But no one will be called to account, because this network that did this, believe me, with those 300, 400 million commissions received by Slovenian citizens and I would expect from the commission run by Mr. Möderndorfer, but I know that this mission is practically impossible to figure out once where this money went, who has this money, where this money is. [[…]] Since the money launderer, from this he received a hundred million commission, trust me, ladies and gentlemen, he has the power to influence the police, the criminals, the prosecutors, the judges. What's to give him a bribe to a judge? However, we have seen cases where Slovenian judges are corrupt. And to know how Slovenian justice works. Yes, Mr Jurša, it was the case, it was the case when the judge was in court, but he was obviously really clumsy to get it, but I believe there are many more. Not everyone is, but we have to be fair. They are good judges who are also critical of this system because some individuals who act primarily politically cast a bad light on the whole judiciary. But until they point to them with their finger, until the judges themselves remove those who are bad there from their Wednesdays, justice will be as long as it is, and above all justice as it is. For me, this case is closed as far as the parliamentary investigation is concerned; the reports that we have adopted and which are the fruit of Logar's and the Grims Commission are clear. It says everything in there about how the matter was going, who were the ones involved, in particular by not cooperating with the law enforcement authorities or by abandoning their duty to do what they had to do, so that billions of euros could be washed for the purposes of terrorism, but believe me, nothing would happen to anyone. If this is a serious response from law enforcement authorities, the police should have come to the New Ljubljana Bank a long time ago to one of the former directors. [[…]] Earlier, Mrs Bojana Muršič pointed to SDS, you will see how it was used in NKBM. I think she has not forgotten that Prime Minister Pahor and his government were the ones who named Draška Veselinović and Boža Jašovic as NLB's chairman; gentlemen who knew about this, gentlemen who even released this Iranian businessman from commission payments. Given the traffic that's been going on, given the way it's been going on, we should be ringing all the alarms at the bank. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. And since you know for yourself who were there, who were those who were in positions where they could not, now spread this inquiry commission with 15 million laundered money in the NKBM, on the assumption, Dr. Trček always says: Left had a New Ljubljana Bank and SDS had an NKBM. So it is known why this is spreading; if something is spreading due to parliamentary elections concerning the banking system, this is the case. Not to mention the SMC election programme in the National Assembly in 2014, how you promised a bank investigation, how you promised to clean up the banking system, how you promised to bring those who turned this hole to justice and how they would answer for it; none of this has ever happened. Last week they were rejected – or some time ago on the committee – because last week we didn't even vote on it because it wasn't possible to do business, we postponed – two laws that would probably help to finally ask these people once, but that's the way it is. If you wash a billion and you have $300,400 million in your pocket, you don't have to worry about anything, you have everything under control, you can buy a court, you can buy a prosecutor's office, you can buy, you can build a media empire that can influence public opinion in the whole of Central Europe, you put government, in short, you manipulate, and you rule from the background. Unfortunately, Slovenia is such a country, let Positive Slovenia be in power first, then the Mir Cerar Party, SMC, if it comes to the next SMŠ elections; see, things will be the same. The core is the same. The core was those who were laundering money, mainly because of the assistants who were in office, who had not done their part, who had abandoned their duties, and some had even prepared documents, as the current Justice Minister and the Secretary of State had done, as the Commission of Inquiry had found and all Members supported by their votes. The prize is then given to a Commissioner in Brussels, someone goes ahead and becomes president of the country, someone becomes director of Petan's companies, the director of what institute, what mediation centres and so on. In short, this is Slovenia in the 20th, 21st century. And as long as this is the case, electoral participation will continue to decline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, prepare the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go, mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. A colleague, a colleague, a very nice greeting! Thank you for having the opportunity to express my opinion and position today, given that, when we touch on such topics, I must admit that this personal political view of the individual Member or representative of the group that originates is very interesting, logically, from a party's point of view. I must admit that, at the end of the day, in the last part, I will define myself until the proposed extension, as far as the parliamentary investigation is concerned. However, I will allow myself to use a few words, just as my predecessors have discussed the so-called money laundering, banking and so on. I will also now make it very clear that we are discussing the political responsibility that lies within the exclusive competence of this national assembly, namely, the responsibility of those persons who have been in certain functions and who have had the opportunity to either enable or prevent certain processes, in this case financial institutions or banks. When we are talking today and it is the subject of an extension to the New Credit Bank Maribor, I very clearly point out that this responsibility is undeniable on the part of the members of the boards and supervisory councils. However, political responsibilities cannot be avoided by those who were on the government's side and who had the power to directly or indirectly recruit. I'm not going down here now if this goes directly or directly. However, the fact is that material, criminal and compensation responsibility, I think we all realize that this is the exclusive competence of law enforcement authorities as well as of the judiciary. Given that a number of things have been touched by previous debaters, I must admit that I was very pleasantly surprised by my colleague Dr. Trček, who said, "Why shouldn't the parliamentary investigation committee be DUTB?" I would also like to add why there would not be a parliamentary investigative commission for matters when we know that at the time before the recapitalisation, some decisions have been made regarding the maintenance of private banks. This, I must admit, I am very much missed by the debaters in this National Assembly. As a result of the maintenance of private banks, I have mentioned this for the last time, it is certain that if all circumstances are taken into account, a billion, maybe two, I do not know. I'm sure the actors know very well. This epilogue, which has ended, you know, is the merger of Probanka and Factor Banka, which is now a conclusion, at least as regards some processes and also the employees of the DUTB. So there are things that are just really worrying. What I personally have to admit is of great interest – and here I will most likely also extend to taxpayers, citizens and citizens – is something in particular: not what has been exposed today, how this one billion money laundering has been discovered, but, above all, how could all institutions that have very good legal basis for such activities be concealed. One is institutions and one is officials who are directly responsible for such matters. I think that this is also a key issue and especially for citizens, not just us. But here I have to point out again what I did the last time. Although there are few of us, but respected colleagues, how many of them are like this, let's say the money laundering was still in the NLB? In other banks owned by the state: Abank, Probank and Factor Bank, although we have put them into some kind of process, we are now touching the NKBM. And that's what I think is scary. That makes me very receptive to those who somehow wonder why this has ever been discovered. Yes, it is the duty to discover as much as possible and then to really go in the direction of not only political, especially criminal, compensation and material responsibility, what normal democracy or states, if I speak Europe, know well and very strictly sanction. We know those who know these things – as a rule, there are few political sanctions due to the fact that those who have found this to be discovered simply give up or withdraw from political life. A few words had already been touched; a deep country. I must admit that I can somehow assess some progress, because these two words are increasingly used in this national assembly. And that's right. For more than once, when we talk about it or touch it, it will come faster to what both theorists and practitioners have been warning about it for a long time. And last time I mentioned that in developed democracies – and I mentioned France and England – they know very well and I hope that this so-called debate on this kind of activity will be increasingly common in this national assembly. For in the final stage this is also our mission – if the law enforcement authorities do not function as we all want and expect, then it is up to us to warn this through political rhetoric. As far as this is concerned – what is always a red thread and we have touched today – this five billion-dollar bank hole; if you are changing some, three years ago, when we had a joint meeting of two parent committees and plenty of people invited from all institutions, the difficulty was undeniably exposed – and I am glad that I was not wrong at that time because I made the thesis very clear – for this five billion-dollar bank hole is the irrefutable responsibility of state-owned banks on the part of administrations and supervisory councils that had confidence in governance and management. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Slovenia, the financial regulator and Banka Slovenije did not – from the Bank of Slovenia's known reasons and leadership at the time – carry out and carry out all activities which are clearly recorded by law and were obliged to carry out all activities in a preventive role in order to act in a timely manner, because it has all the legal grounds for this not to happen. As a result, as you know, the Constitutional Court’s decision to do something with so-called subordinates or “subordinates” is a short notice. In addition, there have been too many other groups in this political debate, including so-called business auditors, since the annual report by banks or companies at the shareholders' assembly is also a review of the annual report by the auditor. And even in this case, if we're in a bank hole and I touch it and I skip this so-called billion-dollar money laundering, it's very interesting if it can be seen in these documents, if they're even available, what the so-called auditor found, wrote, overlooked, whatever we say. The fact is that the business auditor of the annual report also plays a key role not only in classifying certain claims, but also in all business processes that may have a very bad impact on the business outcome, except that some companies, in this case the bank, may be subject to very large sanctions, as the replacement of members of administrations, supervisory boards or even restrictions in the area of some licensing activity is simply the worst thing to do, whether it is a private person or a state. And here I must admit that the executive branch of power, which had all the levers in relation to the five billion-dollar bank hole, in order to regulate in due course at least in some way, could substantially help not to be such a cost. Given that the political debate is very present and we often touch on individual cases of business in this national assembly, if I speak here in banking or financial, it is often by mistake, literally, already immediately characterises and learns or in its discussions touches and says: "Because these are signs of a crime." I must admit that in such debates we are doing wrong to many. That is why I am very much in the position: one is the principle of political debate, and one is that law enforcement authorities and institutions should really act in accordance with the legal powers. And it is our duty, above all, to have the executive branch of power, as members of the National Assembly, to draw attention to inactiveness and to expect and appeal that matters are also subject to sanctions. What was I thinking? In particular, when we talked about this so-called five billion-dollar bank hole; we know so-called credit transactions – simply if I come to the bank and ask for ten billion credits, it is not a sign of a crime; if the management decides to grant me without insurance and knowing that I simply cannot repay this money and still approves or directs me, you cannot characterize me as a borrower and define that I have committed a crime. This is a matter that is burdensome because of this kind of bad business — or decisions that may have different reasons for doing so, or purposes — shift to the side of the one who approves. And the financial institutions or companies are indisputably considered to be all levers for such decisions on the part of bank administrations. Above all, there are members of the Governing Council. I'm going to touch a little bit of the subject that's tied up today. If I open or anyone opens a foreign exchange account in any financial institution or bank, I open it for that foreign exchange account or to deposit or order, redirect, do whatever I do. I also pay a certain commission for such transactions. It is customary for a financial institution to charge precisely because it is its original income. If someone decides on the board to consider such matters to be a client, he will write off a known reason by injuring the income of the banks. What needs to be said about these foreign exchange transactions is as follows. By implementing the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, it is on the part of financial institutions – and we are not blinding ourselves here, it is not only the banks, but all financial institutions, including lawyers and the like – that, under the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the adopted internal rules, this is the administration in banks, in other institutions depending on what kind of legal person it is, very clearly rules are adopted as regards the notification procedure, in this case the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. And here if I just touch this billion or this kind of proposal about NKBM. Any transaction being carried out does not in itself mean that it is a crime, including mass, or height. However, a key source is that I think that all those who are very familiar with such matters are very well aware of this, that finding whether money laundering and its source is a matter for money laundering is not within the competence of financial institutions in this case, but, in the first place, after the letter of the law of the Anti-Money Laundering Office. And then it is up to the regulator, the Bank of Slovenia, as well as the detection authorities, the police, the law enforcement authorities, the prosecutions, and, in the final stage, to these so-called investigative judges. And if it is found that these suspicions really show that all the signs of a crime are fulfilled, it is perfectly logical that that environment, in this case a financial institution, must be subject to sanctions regardless of whether it is political, criminal, material or indemnity. And unfortunately, this is where it happened, and then it was discovered by Dr. Logar's investigative commission that institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, including the political function of the executive branch, had been hidden on the entire line. I'm sorry. And I hope there are no more cases like this. As far as this is concerned, I can only say that this so-called political responsibility under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly certainly has a limit. For the last time, I allowed myself to predict that after 26 years we might still experience that this political responsibility will also receive some content, but not that it will pass through such conclusions in one way or another, especially in the direction that citizens, voters and everyone else are forgetting and the caravan is moving on. If I touch on the end yet, as far as this proposal is concerned. In the debate before me, a colleague mentioned: this is a political debate. I'm sure. It is true that everyone has a point of view with regard to the specific issue, but I must say that I fully support the proposal to extend the parliamentary inquiry led by my colleague Möderndorfer, although I have in some parts certain concerns that it is written down what should be discovered. And here is the question whether what is written in full is the competence of this national council, given that the contents are of a nature that should, in the first place, go in the direction of the regulator's control, the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, as I said, detection, further law enforcement and so on. But why am I very much in favour of this matter being expanded and that this commission is indeed operating in a very high intensity? In particular, because we have already identified in the case of the billions of euro in the New Ljubljana Bank – and in this case there is a high probability in the New Maribor Credit Bank – that detection authorities, law enforcement authorities and the Anti-Money Laundering Office with their interlocution, I can even say that they are not interested, in any way in this area acting in the way they should. Whatever that conclusion is, it's a reality. And for this very reason, I support all three of them in a certain direction, which is the right point for the Commission to conclude them in this mandate – and I hope it will. It is true, however, that I do not agree with the part where Logar – if I may say so – the Commission has stated that the main purpose is also to determine whether legislation to prevent money laundering is appropriate and, in this context, also through the work of the Commission, should be to determine whether the Republic of Slovenia has the right legislation on the legal fees. I will say without the name of a respected person who was the first director of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, I remember when he was very intensive in the adoption of the law to educate all representatives of business banks in the Republic of Slovenia, with great enthusiasm and conviction as to how urgently this needs to be regulated. Also in the process sense of information, he made it very clear in his hearing that the Republic of Slovenia has very solid legislation in this area and is also comparable to the legislation of European countries which are somehow leading in this area in preventing money laundering. And again, on the normative side – as in a number of other areas – the Republic of Slovenia has good legislation, but everything depends on those who are entrusted with it, if I can say so, the management or management of a certain segment of public function. And this means that I understand this kind of extension proposal mainly in order to determine whether the actual signs of the crime were the source of such transactions in the New Credit Bank of Maribor. However, I believe and hope that the Commission and the President have, in spite of everything, been aware of the preparation of this material, that this kind of business, which may have signs of a crime, regardless of whether it is so - has also been said in terms of Mafia and similar You know, in money we cannot talk about it because it has no color. [[…]] But the point is that those who do business with money have to make sure that processes and procedures are legal. Here I point out in particular that I was surprised that this commission is now focusing primarily on the Nova Gorica business, because we know that the Nova Gorica bank was literally connected in those days to the New Maribor Credit Bank. Who says that the focus of this kind of money laundering was only on two businesses, Schempeter to Gorica and the Shempeter business itself? Normally foreign exchange transactions are carried out through the central area, and this does not mean that someone is laundering money simply by coming into a business where he places or lifts. These processes go in line with the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering through Very Clear Procedural Rules and I myself hope that in this particular case it has been well thought out that the real difficulty is mainly in this context, based on some conclusion of the minutes of the Bank of Slovenia. I myself would be careful in such matters, especially because Nova Kreditna banka Maribor did similar business with a model like Nova Ljubljanska banka, which took place through its subsidiaries. [[…]] I believe that it is well thought out, as far as concreteisation is concerned, and that if the Commission finds that certain foreign exchange transactions, transactions and abuses have also taken place in other businesses, including its headquarters in Maribor, it will find and act accordingly. For the payment transaction, in general foreign exchange, is not a matter of just one business or three; it is a transaction which is in accordance with an internal rule, a statutory provision. And from everything that is related to pre-determined processes of financial work, it is clear which segment or which location or processes have been carried out, or even when it comes to money laundering. As I mentioned in the introduction, I support, in particular for this reason, because those institutions in the Republic of Slovenia, which, if I say so, should have been able to work intensively for a decade in this area, obviously had not carried out what they should have done. Once again, responsibility; surely I would not talk about any other, especially on the part of the members of the boards and the supervisory boards. Perhaps Mrs Alenka Bratušek was also a member of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank during this period, and I wonder if, if I may say so, there may be something found in this investigation process. We will be following with interest and wish this parliamentary investigative commission much success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u72	The word has magic. Branko Grims, then we come to the conclusion of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u73	Thanks again for saying that. When it investigates something as special as a billion laundered money coming from a country under the United Nations embargo - as it was then Iran - and because of the attempt to buy parts for a nuclear bomb and for a chemical weapon, that is to say, for proliferation, as it is officially called, and the money comes from a bank in Iran that is under the embargo of the European Commission, they cancel all the control institutions and no one at that time finds out, even the final report the police will not give to the prosecution, then it is clear that we have to deal with something that is politically conditional. That's why it's political responsibility. We have already notified the National Assembly of this matter. It has been notified by the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services I run and also by an investigator for the bank hole. Both reports were unanimously confirmed and the names are listed in both reports. It is clear exactly who in politics has been informed of a billion dollars, according to the most basic expanded version of even billions of euros of money, and that Parliament has been exempted from this. The information that this is such a huge amount of money, after everything we've investigated, has never come to Parliament. This should, of course, be properly investigated when it comes to political responsibility, and another special investigator who wants to extend his powers today should be set up to do so. They want to extend their powers to a matter 500 times smaller. There is about 2 million of the money that is being talked about today is supposed to be controversial, particularly controversial, and it's all about 15 million. Everything that was a transaction. When the coalition, which, at the time of Mr Jankovic's write-off, is 16 million just like that, is widely engaged in political responsibility for 15 million, this is not very convincing. However, if it is the commission’s task to investigate the billions of dollars, of course, the matter becomes quite clear. It's domestically called fog sowing. If there's been any violation of the law, of course it's a matter of law enforcement. In both cases. In both cases, it is required, justified by the public, on our part, to carry out a proper investigation by the law enforcement authorities, that anyone found to have actually committed a violation of the law should be brought before the time limit of the right to exercise his or her rights and then decide on the guilt of an independent court. That's how it works in the state of law. However, when it comes to identifying political responsibility, there are, of course, commissions of the National Assembly. However, when it comes to a billion, it is well known; it is known who knew, who did not do his work, with names and surnames. I can count them again if you want. And it is known that some have abandoned their duties. The suspension of duties when it is obviously a benefit, even if this is a political one, but in this case it was probably also a commission, commissions for such transactions are up to 30% and even more, that is 300 million euros; you can only ask yourself how many elections can be bought with this, why say one candidate on the far left, in Antifo, gives so much space in these media in Slovenia at this time. [[…]] Where'd that candidate get the money? That would almost be for one special investigator. And by the way, how is it possible for the media to create such a picture of this candidate, that someone else who understands that he is right, that he is a patriot – for a guy who was made out of his own country by a lunatic and from people who conquered this country, he was a fool and he was with the antifungals, he declared himself, and so on and so on. In short, it's very interesting that with a lot of money to do anything in this country. Not much because people are very uncritical about what they get from mass media, but they take too little time to look for themselves on the Internet, because on the Internet you have all the information that is lit up from different angles, they take too little time to compare different, even new media with those old, etablished, from many past times, and then create their own opinions. That is why democracy does not work for us, which is why all these things are necessary, and this also makes all the things we are talking about possible today. In a normal country, people of God, it is impossible for someone to make a political deal somewhere and agree that in a country, in one publicly owned bank, they will launder billions of money and shut down all the control mechanisms so that after so many years we can only find that nothing has finally been found. The police never gave a proper report to the D.A.; for every moped they gave it, but not for a billion. Isn't that interesting? Of course, someone can believe in coincidences. After all, some people believe that the earth is a flat plate, that the sun revolves around the earth, it is quite possible that someone believes it, but of course it has nothing to do with reality. And the reality is that we're living in a country that someone from what a SMC colleague calls a deep state, obviously stole it, adopted it, and democracy in a country like this is just a farce. And unfortunately, it is also materialized by abstinence in the elections; even the day before, we had less than a half-participation in the elections, and that is not irrelevant. This, of course, is not a good sign, it is a sign of distrust in the institutions of the system, so it is so important that the whole country begins to function within all its institutions in such a way that it will be trustworthy for people to believe if something is said to be true. But we have so much half-truth and stupidity that people don't know what to believe at the end. And even, unfortunately, with all my responsibility, I am convinced that that is exactly what this investigator, led by Mr Möderndorfer, is meant to do. Before, I don't know how many times it's been highlighted, and I specifically want to say this, I don't know how many times it's been highlighted, the SDS is using this discovery of Iranian money for political accounting and thinking about winning elections. Now I ask you to quote me correctly. I am confident, and with all my responsibility, and all my life I have been working with the elections, that in Slovenia it is not possible to get any elections by exposing corruption or by revealing a billion laundered money for terrorism. And you know why not? Because of your abuse of institutions, justice, law enforcement agencies over the past 25 years, you've brought all this to people when the law was massively broken. It was always against exactly one and the same, i.e. against the invaders, just before the elections that political processes opened, but formally, in court, they were convicted of crime. One of them got locked up. Do you still remember, comrades? By the way, you took his seat, even though I warned you it was obviously unconstitutional. And in the end all the matter fell down at the Constitutional Court, saying, All was a violation of the Constitution and of the laws; all was a violation, a grave violation of human rights, from the first to the last second. And as a result, people became virtually insensitive to all of this. And all you're doing right now is in the spirit of the most disgusting winged thing I just can't stand. I can handle a lot of things, but I can't. When it's so easy to say, "They're all the same." We're not all the same, ladies and gentlemen. We've never been, and we never will. We carried one weapon to fight for Slovenia alone, and another 24 hours before independence, we negotiated with the generals of JLA, how they would come back to power, when they would lock us all up, or put us in an unknown place, probably in a abyss. And some were hiding what had happened, and they were informed, ladies and gentlemen. They were informed: Mr Danilo Türk as President of the State has been informed, Mr Borut Pahor as President of the Government has been informed, Mrs Katarina Kresal as Minister of the Interior has been informed, Mr Križanič as Minister of Finance has been informed, then the man who is even representing the European Union down in Macedonia, who was then foreign minister, has been informed and so on, and so on, not to mention them for too long. And their responsibilities should be discussed. We know exactly who was notified. None of them did their job properly because if they had at least asked what had happened then the matter could certainly not have ended in such a way that neither the police had reported the case to the prosecution. Each moped is surrendered and a billion laundered money for terrorism cannot be reported to the prosecution. Again, someone can believe that this is a coincidence; I don't believe in such coincidences and never will. Someone ordered this and someone is responsible, someone is also criminally responsible for it, ladies and gentlemen, because things are not yet obsolete, unlike all those who are even now communicating by email: everything is outdated. Nothing out of date. There are 10 out of date and in some cases many more years. That is to say, if it is to be desired, now all institutions in the country have the option of being re-examined, but once and for all they must go on the principle that all are equal before the law and that all laws are implemented in the same way as the rule of law and the constitution itself. However, as regards the identification of political responsibility in Parliament, these names are known, and if they were to be desired, of course this political responsibility would already be exercised or at least investigated in more detail, and as far as I know, nothing is concerned. They're talking about expert stories. Because we're almost there, and we're going to have an expert election at the National Assembly, which is just outside the door. How this work is intended to be completed or done properly, I must say, is unknown to me, but the names of those who were responsible are known, even some because their conduct, by abandoning the obligation to act, have themselves contributed to an infamous conclusion. One of them is Minister Klemenčič. We wouldn't even meet his name if he didn't want to brag himself and he went on TV to explain that he had just given a criminal complaint. And when we wanted to see her, we found out that no one knew about it; not at the KPK or the police, she was nowhere to be seen. Then we found out that someone was really from the bank — there were honest people in the bank who had always warned that something was wrong — brought the right document and apparently handed it to Mr. Klemenčič or his attorney. But instead of submitting this document in accordance with the protocol and being the basis for further investigation, they converted some of it into their own statements, something that was no longer possible to determine what was going on in the first place, and eventually handed it all over in an informal way. Not under the protocol, therefore, it was no longer a properly submitted document that would serve as a basis for further investigation, but some information which was subsequently lost to the police in an infamous manner. And because of this action, which was after the entire unanimous decision of this national assembly - you all voted for it, we voted for it - it was a violation of the proper conduct, the corresponding protocol, and then the story ended in the way it did. But did you at least call this man to account? No, you intend to reward this man with the role of Commissioner for Human Rights at the Council of Europe, although he has been awaiting him in the same National Assembly for some time now an interpretation, in addition to one of the key points that he has committed a grave violation and has not sanctioned, as I point out twice, a grave violation of human rights in justice. The silencer allowed it, there was no sanctions, there was no measure and the principle of silence, consenting, says, assumes at least objective responsibility. How can someone who was therefore responsible for the violation of human rights found then in the Constitutional Court and who has not sanctioned anything and no one, even though it was in his jurisdiction, now fit for the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights? Unless, of course, it is a reward for some corrupt work, but then it is a corrupt reward, and all those who do so are responsible for corruption, then a proper investigation should be made. Or maybe he's trying to hide where the money from those fees went for a billion laundered money. Once again, at least 300 million were obviously commissions, so normal after what experts have told us in this area. The commission for such transactions, 300 million, ladies and gentlemen, is huge money. 300 million is enough to buy the media so that one who is an ultraleviary who is declared an antifa is shown to be on the right to be elected by patriots who would otherwise have cut off their hand if they knew who they were voting for. But this is a media picture and people then vote in good faith that they got actual information, but in fact money is a bought lie and then democracy becomes just a farce. That is why these things need to be investigated consistently and to the end, because otherwise this is always coming back to us as a boomerang, which, of course, is being paid in development. Because people who are such provenances, of course, do not know how to spend money, then it is clear why it is only debated about where there will be any new tax and how citizens and citizens will be even more burdened, how entrepreneurs will be even more burdened, and how rational spending of money will not be considered, and how entrepreneurship should be burdened to make it more competitive. It is not considered that it would also be worth supporting competition in education, as opposed to what you are now doing by abusing constitutional rules where you want to change the Constitution in the field of education. What did the Constitutional Court say? He just wanted to allow those poorer family children to come up with the better quality of education offered by private education. You want to destroy this, this good purpose of the Constitutional Court, this noble purpose, the developmental purpose of the Constitutional Court by changing the Constitution. That's low, it doesn't even deserve a word for it. It would be good for that, too. Yeah, what kind of investigator do you have? But then you'd need an investigator as much as you want, for almost all policy areas, given what's going on right now. But the question is, how much have people been informed? The question is, how's the money that was given for the commission coming back? But it's the one that's said to be there, I'd say, the Serbian mob, whether it's the one that's through Italy, whether it's double-washed money or whatever. But I'm sure this money comes back here and has certain consequences. In this way, the same monopoly that he has allowed, which has led to the agreement to launder a billion money for terrorism in the New Ljubljana Bank, is maintained. And then the circle is closed. But all that is happening today does not, of course, contribute to the fact that at least one thing about the responsibility that this country so bloodyly needs will come to an end, which will only cause the crushing and of course the sowing of fog, so that in the end it will no longer be known who is drinking, who is paying and who is going to go to the point that they are all guilty and that they are all the same. Of course we're not, and we never will be. But the question is, how many people are willing to follow through on this. The fundamental condition for the functioning of the country is that we restore people's confidence in institutions, that people will once again be willing to participate in co-decision on fundamental issues for this country, first and foremost in the elections. To believe that their voice decides that the state is theirs, that no one stole it for them to launder one billion money. Once people believe that again, they will return to the elections and then this will be a very good developmental perspective for the future. While this is not the case, it is not surprising, however, that Slovenia is lagging behind and has been lagging behind in recent years so much that we were even faster in 2008 than the average of the development of the entire European Union and that we have already reached the average and that we have been reducing public debt, in contrast to what is then, of course, a media outlet like this today. And that at the time, wages and pensions increased by 25%, and then they only fell seriously. This was the period 2004-2008. But ever since then all things have gone down, because men have sat down and said, They are all the same. And they're electing new faces, and the new faces are just left-handed. And so, of course, new taxes, even more burdened, things don't work, and the country collapses. And today, as the development of some predictions has improved, this is being sold in salvation as a glorious success. Ladies and gentlemen, 2008 we were up here, then we fell under the left-hand side like this, and now this thing has turned a little bit like this, but we've been up here before. We're here now. Once we're over it, we'll have something to brag about. Until then, we have nothing to brag about. This is the problem that needs to be looked back and also to exercise political responsibility. Because Slovenian development sacrificed itself to political games. And this was done by the left — with a mountain of money, with a mountain of informal power, with that deep country that we talked about today, and which you also recognize as some of the coalition. And it is not in the development interest, it is a disgrace to Slovenia. And in order for this to be resolved in order to restore development in Slovenia, things need to be cleared up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u74	We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which Mr Jani Möderndorfer is also given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u75	Thank you very much, President. Well, after this last part, which was actually more than half meant for some self-representation of pain, trauma and God know him to be something else respected, esteemed fellow Member Grims, it is more than clear that, of course, he skipped one part that is essential to today's debate. This party that you belong to, SDS, is the one who gave a bad passport at the start of this same commission because she did not want to hand over documents to this same commission of inquiry, which has legally been given the authority to investigate money laundering, which, of course, is constantly and constantly calling on how to get to the end. This same parliamentary group that you belong to does not wish to cooperate with its member on this same committee. And of course, under cover, if, we have nothing to do with it, but we desperately want the truth, the truth, and only the truth, and we need to get it all to one top of the pedestal and show people how something is being saved. But in fact, let me say it out loud. You don't want any part of this. More than that, you're guessing. And at the same time, of course, you're turning the story. You keep talking about one billion, but you don't say that this billion wasn't Slovenian. And then you talk fast about some 300 million, and I don't even know where you got that interest, and you add a remarkable word relationship, and you say, "The experts have taught us." These documents are only coming to the National Assembly because they have been further requested as to how much interest has actually been earned by Nova Ljubljanska Banka. However, it is in the final report. Above all, because you talk so much about what you've already discovered and what you've learned and even who's been informed You know, the things you've done, you have to do them legally first! [[…]] If we use your word relationship “we want to restore trust to people” first, we must do something legally if we want to expect to be able to give the others an example of how it is right. [[...]] What did you do? You've made four calls to the Logar Commission. And you called them not as witnesses, because you couldn't even call them as witnesses, because you didn't even have those powers, but you did the hearing, and it was at the will of the people who really believed they were working for legality, so they came voluntarily. Because God forbid we should come to you, which then would just say that Mr Klemenčič is hiding something – I am not defending him today because he will be called to this commission of inquiry, just as everyone else is. And once again, I tell you, all the people you listed and you forgot to list something else; not just seven, fifteen people were the most informed about it, only some today are hiding that they were informed. [[…]] And that's what the commission has to come up with, who else has turned away and didn't want to know that something was going on. The case, of course, stopped in 2010, and was by no means completed. The investigation didn't even begin. You have so much to talk about through SMC and Cerara's government, which was not even present at that time. And most of all, the President of the Government, the current government is the main responsible and responsible for everything because he has not acted. I'm sorry, this government has only begun a serious investigation into the criminal service, not under yours, not under any previous investigation. And here I am in a little doubt. I wouldn't want to argue as easily as you do. Of course, I will not refer to everything else that you have already mentioned today, but one thing that is absolutely necessary and has to be said to Namreč, I agree with you in one thing extremely, extremely. [[…]] We're not all the same, we really are, we're not. And I'm going to add something to you – I don't want to be the same as you, I don't want to be. And not in the part where you talk about guns, because I don't care; I did other things, and I didn't have to carry weapons, but I had to do other things, so that you could carry weapons and brag about the 10-day war with care and what else I know. Because if anything were to happen to you, you'd be in my hands, which is why I was in charge at the time. But there's one more thing. The past must be examined consistently and to the end, as far as this subject is concerned today. I agree with that, too, but once again, in a legal way, not like you who come, do something and then say and scream here that we have unanimously supported. Yeah, but don't tell me what we supported unanimously. Interim report. Then he appointed the Assembly of State and established it, not to establish it. He set it up. And that's your perception problem because you don't understand what the conclusion of the National Assembly is. And he shared and, of course, by setting up the Commission, made it clear that the Commission had to complete the work that had been started. And no one has been able to tell you that, no one, until today. You want to develop a story that hides something, hides something, blurs, wants to spread to no one else. That's not true. Mr. Grimes, it won't be your eternal storytelling joke. Excuse me, that's a lie you're saying, and a lie, but you're masters at it, and as a professional lab, you leave fingerprints everywhere you can with these stories. I can tell you that. All these people you mentioned, all these people will be called by the Commission and given the opportunity to tell them their part of the truth, not like you when you come, but just condemn them. And then we'll find out with the final report whether it's political responsibility or not, all together. And then you will have the opportunity, and today I will tell you very clearly, as I heard your Commander-in-Chief from that bench that he kept talking about, and Mr Logar – we will see if you will support our interim report. I'll see, but you'll keep a fig in your pocket, whether you really care about the truth or not. I'll see about that. Today I regret and regret that you do not participate in the commission because credibility would be greater because we could monitor and, finally, cooperate with your knowledge and experience and not least with what you have already produced. You don't want to. What are you afraid of? The truth? Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u76	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. I propose that you present the following to Mr Jani Möderndorfer. First, for the first time, the special report of the KNOVS, which I am leading, of course, which states that what Mr Klemenčič did was contrary to the protocol and constituted a breach of the obligation to act. That's what it says in there, and that's what you voted for, and that's what I'm talking about, not what interim investigation report you just said. If Mr Jani Möderndorfer may not know this, even though he voted in favour of this, please report to him so that he himself reads that he will no longer speak nonsense. The other thing is. When you were talking about not wanting to give up the material, I'm ready to send it to you. But you, Mr Möderndorfer personally, have spoken here that everything we have done is illegal, that we had no legal basis and no right to break the law from the first to the last minute, about as you said. There will be no doubt, however, exactly what Mr Möderndorfer was talking about, if you please provide Mr Möderndorfer with the answer that we have given to him by the KNOVS, in which his own quotes are, and which, of course, is why we have not given you the material. Because if we, as you claim ourselves, have acquired it illegally, then there can be no basis for your further action, because we want you to do what you swear to do properly and legally. To achieve this, however, Mr Möderndorfer, there is another condition that I have warned you about when your commission was being set up. One of the witnesses, the protected witnesses with whom I spoke, informed me that Mr Farrokhzadeh was the first to bring Ljubljana Mayor Janković to the New Ljubljana Bank, with whom you were in an extremely close relationship at that time. And that is, there is a reasonable doubt as to your credibility, your neutrality in this matter, and therefore you should first, for the credibility of your commission, be personally excluded from its work, and you did not want to hear about it. And that's why you're not talking about the credibility of the commission. Please, however, let all these documents be presented to the public because there will be no doubt as to who is telling the truth here and why it is actually going.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u78	I'm asking here not to be abused, but I'll probably have to leave the abuse to the other side to be equal to the weapon. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u79	Mr Grimes, of course, misused the procedure and merely threw away some untruths, but I will not bother with answers, nothing to be afraid of, far from it. However, from the point of view of procedure [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u80	There are no arguments in the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u81	From the point of view of the procedure, of course, I would only like to point out that we are all Members of the National Assembly, especially if such statements as you have put forward at the end of the procedure are the following: to propose this same covert witness to be heard as a covert witness. [[…]] We'll see very soon how much truth there is. Mr Grimes, don't abuse your position, because it's very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-23-SDZ7-Izredna-50.ana.u82	Now they've both broken the rules of procedure, let's put it this way, but we're running out of time, which is why I'm closing the debate. Pursuant to Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, Article 9, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, and Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, the National Assembly ordered an extension of the scope of parliamentary investigation by any amendment of the legislation governing the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and the determination and assessment of the factual situation for the determination of the political responsibilities of holders of public functions due to the suspicion of influence or involvement in alleged money laundering and terrorist financing, the financing of nuclear proliferation and the financing of the activities of foreign intelligence services abroad in the New Ljubljana Bank, d. d. by citizens of the Islamic Republic of Iran and associated economic entities, and the alleged non-implementation of restrictive measures against the Islamic Republic of Iran, adopted by the United Nations and the European Union. The proposal to extend the scope of the parliamentary investigation is set out in the proposal to extend the parliamentary investigation to the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering and financing of terrorism, nuclear proliferation and financing of foreign intelligence services abroad in Nova Ljubljanska banka d.d. and in the Act extending the scope of the parliamentary investigation that you have received. The extension of the scope of the parliamentary investigation is thus determined. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 50th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
