ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Janja Sluga, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Vesna Vervega from 12 noon onwards, Mr Bojan Podkrajšek, Dr. Anže Logar, Dr. László Göncz after 15.30 and Mr Jernej Vrtovec from 16.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 14. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on marriage. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u2	Dear President, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us the proposal for a law on apprenticeship, which we have coordinated at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport with all stakeholders in the school field and, of course, the social partners. The proposed law will bring young people's vocational education closer to the needs of employers and will bring them closer to the economy. The basic purpose of the law is to establish as soon as possible the professional socialisation of young people. Practicing is an extremely important project in which we are looking for new opportunities, including in the light of the employment of young people, including education and training in a way that is as close to the labour market as possible to the needs of employers. Certain school programmes can be even more tailored to these needs, and, on the other hand, businesses will also be able to employ young people for a longer period of cooperation in the way they need, especially for them, as well as for the benefit of the entire market and individuals. The introduction of apprenticeship, according to the European Commission, is one of the key pillars for reducing youth unemployment, as well as their social exclusion. The proposal that we have today under consideration is therefore also crucial for Slovenia in terms of the labour market, the reduction of youth unemployment and, in particular, their faster integration. In doing so, it is important that protection will be provided for the apprentice who will be practically trained in the employer's work in accordance with the labour law. The apprentice will also have a prize, which will not affect family benefits and social transfers of the family. The apprenticeship form of education differs from the existing so-called dual forms of education, where we are already connecting the school system to the economy, from that of the employer. According to the law, the apprentice will have the status of a student who has at least 50% of the education programme in practical training in apprenticeships. Compared to the current forms, this means about 56 weeks, today, in the current programmes there are no more than 24 weeks of practical training. In doing so, he will have exactly the same rights and obligations as a student who will be enrolled in the same programme in school form. The proposed law provides students and students, apprentices and apprentices with safety and a quality working and learning environment. The inclusion of apprenticeships as proposed by law is not compulsory for both employers and pupils. Those employers who will have so-called free apprenticeships and will also meet all the conditions required for the exercise of apprenticeship will be included. In doing so, the Chambers will assist and support the implementation of the whole system and will connect the school triangle, the employer, the chamber. This strengthens the dual system and is further complemented by greater cooperation between education and the economy. Of course, the involvement of all partners will have to be as coordinated as possible, both in good and of course, the responsibility and rights of all those involved in this triangle. Students of apprentices, their mentors and educational institutions are also responsible for the quality and competent implementation of education and training plans in the apprenticeship. In this regard, particular emphasis is placed on the labour protection of minors in accordance with the Labour Relations Act. The proposal also includes adults, as we are aware of the importance of lifelong learning, which we are reminded not only of the labour market, but also of the international OECD research and the future demographic picture of Slovenia. The apprenticeship will be introduced on an experimental basis in the school year 2017/2017, in four secondary vocational education programmes, namely: a mill, a stoneworker, a metal designer, a toolbox, a gastronomy-hotelir, three of which are also deficient professions. We will introduce the apprenticeship form gradually, pilotly, on a limited number of programmes already mentioned, for a limited number of apprentices, schools and employers. In the first three years, we expect up to 200 apprentices per generation, with the number of employers involved depending on the number of registered apprenticeships and the number of apprenticeship contracts concluded. Respected and respected! I think that apprenticeship is something we all agree on, but it is only right to carry out it in a responsible, qualitative and, above all, with a view to maximising the future employability of young people, as well as to working with all employers who will be included in this system. In doing so, I would also like to thank our departments, which have helped to create a more labour-related perspective and also economic work. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u3	Time [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u4	This is the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy. [[…]] Now I'm going to have to apologize for going to the government, but I'm going to leave it to the team to explain or highlight what you're going to have to say about the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u6	Dear President! Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! You could say that at last. After three attempts by the SDS Group, we have before us on the table a law on apprenticeship prepared by the Government. This introduction could now discuss how the so-called dual system connected to education should be reintroduced, on the one hand, and on the other, trade and economy. I hope that today there will be as few philosophical Flossules as possible and as many discussions as possible about where the law is good, where the law needs to be further addressed so that the apprenticeship system can be brought to life in practice. In the SDS Group we already have one thought problem in the introduction: Why did a special law on apprenticeship and why did not apprenticeship already have in the established Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which also addresses the issue of apprenticeship as a whole? That there is no need for a new law on apprenticeship to be written by the Government itself when it refers in its introductory phrases, if this law on apprenticeship does not regulate it, it is governed by the Systemic Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. Don't make any mistake. The draft law isn't even so wrong. In our view, however, it is worse than the proposal of the SDS Group, we are talking about the first reading. Otherwise, it is true that two-thirds of the law is about a copy-paste version of the law of the SDS Group, but we expected that the Ministry of Education, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Economy, perhaps in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and not least with the craftsmen and all the other stakeholders, would take one step or two more steps, but it was some sort of degradation of the law, which shows the fact that it was written by officials at the Ministry. Instead of more concrete content in the law, we get more of those so-called bureaucratic and administrative articles of the text of the law when we look at the whole law. As it is said, certain sentences are good, but if we are to be good, we must take very racially the cases of the European Union. Not only the so-called apprenticeship alliance, but examples of good practices. We talk about Austria a lot, and we could take the Austrian model here, but we've got a little bit of it. There is still a lot of unfinished work in the law, and this is pointed out mainly by craftsmen who are still dissatisfied with individual solutions, and I will also list them below. Moreover, the dissatisfied representatives of the student and the student organisation are dissatisfied with the unions, but the dissatisfaction of the unions I am not interested in, we are talking about apprenticeship, and in our opinion it is completely pointless that in such a law on apprenticeship as the Government has prepared, where the concept is still based on the educational model of education, we give such an important role to trade unions. I hope that one day someone like Margaret Thatcher will come to the post of Prime Minister of the Government who will say that unions are part of the problem of Slovenian craftsmanship and economy and not, as here he is trying to represent, part of the solution. Allow me to say what are the key problems that will need to be resolved in the course of the second treatment in the home working body and then in the plenary sessions of the National Assembly. The role of school. Although the law is not so wrong, believe in practice there will be many problems. In our view, the role of the Chambers is too great. Not too big in that they are not ready, but personally I am sure that when craftsmen, in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, decide not only to enter this pilot project in the next three years, but then seriously approach, they will, after reading in law, what they must do, what they must do, what they must lead, whether it is a system of apprenticeships that we need. The role of the students. Yes, the rights of students need to be guaranteed, and on the other hand the duties of students need to be further defined. So we have on the one hand what employers have to do and how they can complete the apprenticeship system, and on the other hand, the apprentice can say, as in the case of the student work on Monday, I am no longer leaving this story. And then they have a problem with the school, the employers and everyone else, and the apprentice just winks his hands and says, "I'm not doing this anymore." So far, it's in the text of the law. We are also asked whether they include the unemployed in the apprenticeship system? Is that a good concept? Whether we want to educate apprentices through secondary vocational and vocational schools that they will receive as much practice as possible in addition to theory, or when we talk about getting 200 apprentices in the first three years, we want the unemployed. What about the education of the elderly? What about the working age that is supposed to be going on? Once again, in our view, it is completely pointless for trade unions to give them the weight they give them. We also consider the issue of records to be a key issue. A third of the law is meant for records. What is even more problematic is that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of the Economy have obviously decided that, despite insisting on an educational model, the entire role in the field of records in the Chambers is. And I believe that the Chambers will have a lot of questions and suggestions, as well as for the ministries of the field to take over a certain part of the tasks, but not for employers and craftsmen, but for certain representatives of the Ministry to make a fine pierre of the story. Next question – awards to mentors, masters. We probably need to ask ourselves how the apprentice awards are, and this will probably be discussed at future meetings, including the fact that this award does not count for apprentices, such as scholarships, in certain social benefits. But rewards to mentors, I think, at least somehow in the draft we should write in marriage, not say employers, you have a system of apprenticeships, and now pay for it yourself. A lot of stories start and end with financials. Here we are saying that in the first years, the European Union will be the one that will mostly help to establish a system of apprenticeships. However, the Ministry of Education already has something small in its budget. But when we proposed this same dictatorship or so in the SDS Group, it was said that you have no idea about the financial situation. When we said that there were European funds not only within the Ministry of Education, especially the Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, you said, no, this European money would not be available. Now all of a sudden, these funds are found. The Ministry only has very ambiguous texts in the text of the bill. I quote the second chapter, the third section, first paragraph: “Educational programmes may be carried out in school form, on the basis of the Vocational and Vocational Education Act or in apprenticeship form, on the basis of the Law on apprenticeship.” I think all the future students will somehow be in doubt about what system they're going to be educated by. Moreover, it says here: "The equivalence of the school and apprenticeship forms allows for the transition from apprenticeship to school form during education, while for the transition to apprenticeship, a apprenticeship contract and a plan for the implementation of apprenticeships is drawn up and an individual education plan is prepared for the transition to school form." Fugitiveness continues. Then, in chapter 2/3/5, I quote: “The apprentice in regular education is subject to the rights and duties under the law governing vocational and vocational education and the Law on apprenticeship, and the provisions of the Law on apprenticeship are applicable to the apprentice in special education and the unemployed.” Once again, why two marriages if we so often refer to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education? Next thing. We believe that mentors must be educated, the problem is that we have too few so-called mentors or, if you like, masters, because we have already lost a lot of jobs in Slovenia, in huge areas we hardly find any more people who are masters. And even less, we'll probably find those who want to be mentors. And then, by law, we hang them from teaching-and-drago training. Ladies and gentlemen, during my studies, I worked in a number of companies and craft workshops and believe me, they were top mentors, including me, as ignorant in certain areas, but none of them had pedagogical-andragog skills. This will be a major problem, not just for the chambers, but especially for that small number of mentors. We hope that the control dictatorships will then be carried out in practice. Allow us, though we are at first reading, to be specific in the SDS Group and to tell us about certain articles where the shoes sting us. Article 1, I quote: “All questions relating to apprenticeships not regulated by this law shall be subject to the provisions of the law governing vocational and professional education and the law governing adult education.” In short, the mantra of this government – another new, special law. It's about systemic legislation, but it's a new law, where a chapter of the system law is put into a special law. Yesterday I read that we only need 80 more regulations, and we'll have more than 2,000 rules. I'm sure this government will take them to 2,000 within one year. Long live bureaucracy and administration. Article 5(5) The status of the apprentice. It's a similar story. “The apprentice or apprentice is a person who is educated through an educational programme for secondary vocational education, which is carried out in the apprenticeship form. The apprentice shall also be an educated person, an unemployed person or an employed person with a view to obtaining secondary vocational education” and so on. And again, almost a similar diction. “The apprentice referred to in the first paragraph of this Article shall be subject to the rights and duties under this law and the law governing vocational and professional education and to the apprentice referred to in the preceding paragraph to the provisions of this law.” Why two marriages? Article 8 He's an employer. “The employer must have adequate working conditions and equipment.” Absolutely. This shall be determined by the competent chamber. I believe that the chambers will work individually, and I think it is right that even in this law they would have defined more explicitly what the relevant working conditions and equipment are. For, as it is said, I worked through the student work in various workshops, some were a model of how work must be done, how equipment must be prepared and what working conditions should be. But some of them were so afraid that the students would come and we'd have to run. And when we reported it, nothing happened. Next, once again: “The apprenticeship is certified in accordance with the law governing vocational and vocational education.” Again, why two marriages? Article 9 Mentor. Dear Minister with the team, pedagogical-andragog skills – consider whether it is necessary. The following articles: »The plan for the implementation of apprenticeships prepared by the school and the employer shall be concluded between the competent chamber, the employer and the school operator in the form of apprenticeship.« We really hope that there will not be a whole bill on this. The plan for the exercise of apprenticeship, which means not only the apprentice's diary and apprenticeship contract, but here there will be a whole lot of things where the apprentices will then go to the employer with a full map of different papers, and in practice there will be little fighting in spite of the increased number of hours. Article 12 of the Chamber: “The Chambers shall prepare and publish the invitation to tender for apprenticeships, keep records in accordance with this Act, train mentors...” and so on. Yeah, but then when we look at the articles, what's the role of the departmental ministries? The law is only written, apprenticeship is still part of the educational system, and craftsmen should do everything else. Think about it, but it's necessary. Commission to monitor the implementation of apprenticeships, Article 14. Well, there will be a member of the Ministry, one member of the Houses, and then the Ministry of Education, for work, a union. What's the union for, sir? It's totally unnecessary. Article 15, Sources of financing. “The funds for the tasks of the competent chambers under this Act shall be provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and from other public funds”. Are the funds provided in the budget for all that is stated in Article 12? We are confident that this will still have to be ensured. Article 16(4) Somehow it doesn't go our way when you write: “The apprentice and employer conclude the apprentice contract before school.” It's supposed to be a two-tier thing. Case in practice. How can someone sign a apprenticeship contract if they don't know exactly where he's going to sign it? Very interesting thinking. Then here is what the apprenticeship contract must contain. We agree that the apprenticeship contract must have some basic moments, but that just every thing we write in the contract is a little too much. And then a new invention. “The employer shall submit an application to the competent chamber for registration of the completed apprenticeship contract” then shall have the powers of the Chamber again. [[…]] In short, another piece of paper. Obligations of the apprentice. Yeah, but not so that he can leave, not just the obligations, let's write it down a little bit better. As we say, we support the apprenticeship award, but we expect the ministry to take over a certain part of the mentoring award. As it is said, I personally believe that mainly the chambers or employers will have a major problem with Article 20, paragraph 9, when they write: “The apprenticeship does not affect the apprentice’s family benefits and his family.” We can agree, but then we will open up the issue of all other social rights, which does not go to the common income of a family that has an impact on other matters. Article 22(2) “Employers pay the apprentice's fee from their own resources.” In the SDS Group, we have proposed, at least during a transitional period, that these funds be taken over to a certain extent by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Economy or perhaps by someone else in cooperation with employers. Here's everything on the employer's back. Article 28(2) “The apprentice may, at any time during the duration of the apprenticeship contract without explanation, terminate the apprenticeship contract.” Once in this society, we will have to tell ourselves what rights are and what duties are. Such an apprentice, respected, should be sanctioned. It's a mantra, yes, when it's no longer my turn to work, let the chamber, the ministry, the school, deal with me. Instead of serious apprentices, we get a major problem in Article 28. Then, in paragraph 36 below, one more question: Does it make sense to have the unemployed in this law? I've done a lot of things about records, and we write here. “The Chambers shall establish, manage, maintain, supervise the development of apprenticeships with employers containing...” Ten rows. “The Chambers shall establish, maintain, maintain, monitor records of apprentices containing...” Again: “The Chambers establish, maintain, maintain, monitor the records of mentors...” And it's full again. “For the purpose of the exercise of the apprenticeship, the chamber shall collect the personal data referred to in this Chapter by processing, storing and submitting the personal data free of charge to the school.” In short, it's all on the back of the chamber. And once again – Why are we reminding this in the SDS Group? When the apprenticeship somehow fell in 2006, the problem was not that of the current minister, that it would not be a mistake, but that employers or chambers no longer saw the advantages of the system. And this bill is worse than it was in 2006. I'm sure we'll all have a problem together getting the chambers to do it, employers to do it, and we'll get good mentors. But if we have any more apprenticeships that can leave apprenticeship on Tuesday, we have an even bigger problem. Otherwise, Article 49 states: “The Ministry responsible for education and the Ministry responsible for the economy shall, in the period until the end of 2021, finance the employers part of their costs related to the practical training of apprentices.” Who, how long, when? In our law, this was clearly defined. And also the entry into force of the law, we propose not to start 6 months from its entry into force, but from 1. 9. 2017. Therefore, the debate at the February and March sessions is sufficiently timely to change this dictatorship and to introduce diction 1. 9. 2017. In our view, too much burden on employers and chambers and the flight of competent ministries from cooperation. Nor has the regression claim been resolved, which is the basic condition of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry for the full support of this law. The new Slovenia, I think, has twice proposed this law, and the same government has rejected it. At first reading, we will press the quorum key in the SDS Group, because we are confident that it is necessary, not only the law on apprenticeship, but primarily its implementation into real life, as a combination of an educational and professional or economic model. Allow me to conclude in a reflection text that I received from someone who is probably best acquainted with the issue of apprenticeship, both in theory and in practice, quote: “The law has completely missed the essence of apprenticeship. Instead of being the holder of apprenticeships as an economy and craftsmanship, with a view mainly through practical work to educate the apprentice and at the same time to educate him in accordance with his working standards, we have received a student with a few more practice. It is not just a fraction of the practice and the proportion of the theory that makes the apprentice, but a philosophy that is responsible for his education. Thus, the company and the individual master responsible for the apprentice should take full responsibility for the apprentice's work, rest and advancement. The master must also provide school with important information about what is still missing in the apprentice's theory so that he can work effectively in the workplace. That's how apprenticeship makes sense. This law places shared responsibility between school and business, which will, of course, result in milkiness and inadequacy, but we wanted excellence.” End of story. Your Honor! We hope that, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we will continue to have a law that will provide a good basis for the introduction of apprenticeship in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u8	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In Desus, we are aware that it is essential that the education system and the economic sector are closely connected. We have maintained this position all the time since the proposed amendments to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education of Fellows of the Slovenian Democratic Party have been tabled in Parliament. In our parliamentary group, we agree that employers who practice practical work training can have a significant and positive impact on the development of the competences of students in vocational and vocational education, as they can design it on their own standards and needs, contribute to better professional socialisation and thus improve employment opportunities. All of this means a good journey for a further successful career and consequently for their lives, so Members and Members of Desus in this mandate and even in the previous one we did not oppose the idea of reintroducing apprenticeship into our educational system. However, we wanted this system to work effectively, to deliver long-term results in better employability for young people and, of course, to reflect its quality and usefulness in a specific job and thus to contribute more widely to the economy and its growth. It has been crucial in our view of this type of education all the time to establish the right relationship between the apprentice and the business entity which offers practical training to the student. I did not use the word "employer" on purpose, because the fact that we cannot and must not speak here is a typical relationship between them. According to our assessment, the prepared proposal to do so follows as it provides the apprentice with quality practical training with work, regular monitoring of his training and progress, enables him to fulfil his obligations under the education programme at school, ensures the regular payment of the apprenticeship award, the reimbursement of his apprenticeship fees, and ensures safety and health at work. In the Desus Group, we also welcome the possibility of including the unemployed in such education, as this certainly strengthens lifelong learning, which is not only an option that can be tamed, but is also necessary today. We know that coordination at the level of employers' and employees' representatives has been long-term, and I believe that it is also difficult. We would like to be more united with us at points where it is a matter of what is expected of the country and what the views and demands of the economy are, in order to act as a society that wants progress and where each makes its contribution. The proportion of admissions to vocational and vocational schools has indeed improved slightly in recent years. To keep this pace, it is necessary to encourage young people to decide on such educational programmes and to address the main problem. This is, however, a low reputation for certain professions, which is linked to the low cost of certain types of work. In particular, it is for employers to change their view of employees and in the context of apprenticeships to apprentices, because unfortunately they rarely see added value in their employees, because for most of the workforce is only a cost. Today, as we have repeatedly in this mandate, we reiterate that in Desus we are responsibly aware of the need for such reinforcements of vocational and professional education, which would allow for a faster and better response to the needs of the labour market and, in particular, we hear the desire of the economy that the worker should be professionally and practically well-educated. As we today have the content of apprenticeships in the parliamentary benches arranged to cover a rather broad consensus on social partnership, and in the coming years, when this institution is to be re-acquired, we will attach assistance to the state in co-financing apprenticeships, in the Desus Group, to this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u9	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u10	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia, in most of its strategic documents, like the European Union, notes that and wants to be a knowledge society, but in the circumstances of a globalised society, just being a knowledge society is not enough. In addition to knowledge, skills are needed, as knowledge and skills together form competence. This competence must be dynamic, and above all, it must look for its foundations in a real experience where knowledge becomes eloquent through work with skill. It is therefore important for the Slovenian education system to provide, in addition to an excellent knowledge base, the skills of accessing the labour market for the early and best possible integration of individuals, which will also provide an appropriate opportunity for the construction of a career path and associated social integration. Therefore, the draft law on apprenticeship is something that we may be really waiting for too long, but we have been built in a way that we can welcome and that the law also responds to all the key dilemmas that cooperation between education and, if you want, production, industry, trade, of course also brings. Initially, it must be said that the law itself will not bring any special miracle. This law is a similar mechanism, as with the possibility of using Horizon 2020, to provide a basis for cooperation between education and industry, and how this mechanism will be used, to what extent and to what extent, quality, depends, of course, on all stakeholders in this process, on the one hand, the craftsman, the teacher, the student and, of course, the public, who must have an appropriate degree of understanding, patience and, at the same time, solidarity support to the process to make the latter successful. What is crucial and also the condition of the Social Democrats for the adoption of this law is, of course, duly taken into account. This means that the award for the work carried out under the educational process is not included in income, from which social transfers are also measured. This means that the student involved in the apprenticeship system will still be able to receive both a state grant and, for example, a children's allowance, so that the solidarity system will not be compromised and the existing capacity of the family to support its child in entering such an education system will not be jeopardised. At the same time, since each work is considered, contributions for the pension period are also paid from the amount paid. This is particularly important, even in the light of the dynamics of the labour market which has developed in the last period, when virtually there are no jobs for an indefinite period at the time of entry. From this point of view, it is not only every year, but every month of working time is particularly important. And even though one of the key critics of the opposition is that the law comes too late, it should be pointed out that, since the initial essential objections, both the Chamber of Commerce and trade unions can be made after the last debate, such as at Studio at 17. Radio Slovenia, we find that all these stakeholders today are united in supporting this law. And here, of course, thanks the preparers for understanding and for the urgent and important effort they have put into social dialogue and its implementation. The agreement of those who will implement the programme on its urgency and support for this law is, of course, an appropriate and important guarantee for this assembly, that we have a good and quality law that is worthy of support. It remains, at least for the second treatment, a key dilemma, and that is whether it must be a master, if I may use this term, forged in all the skills of teaching and andragogic work. For it is a master, a master, whose key task is to teach the involved in the process of working, that is, the skills that take place in the workshop, in the plant, in the service work, wherever. And we will, of course, have to give an answer to this part. Because saying that someone who is a master in his profession, such as a toolbox or a mess of 30 years, does not have the appropriate knowledge and skills to teach his employees, but also apprentices, to work and to draw attention to the key and most important skills, but also to the dangers, would, of course, be underestimating to people who have great knowledge and who have contributed greatly to this society and can also contribute much with the support of this law. The law also respects the principles of lifelong learning. And in the face of changing circumstances in the labour market, this is of paramount importance. The strategic framework set up by the European Union also speaks of the fact that, through a career path, we must count on changes in our professional orientations and that we must set up a framework as a country in order to make it possible, including with the support of the country, to adapt our knowledge, skills and competences. For this reason, the Social Democrats welcome the possibility of integrating the entire career path, including those who are unemployed at some point. We will support the draft law at first reading, but at the same time, of course, we are counting on a constructive debate on the open points. And let us hope that the law, which is good at the beginning, will become even better in the debate and with the amendments tabled in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Everyone has the right to an intellectual legacy of humanity. This is the basic maximum of education that we advocate in the United Left. And it's not limited to a single level of education. Even when we are talking about secondary and vocational education, the education programme and its providers must enable the development of young people across the board and enrich them with comprehensive knowledge of their profession as well as broader knowledge. The social function of education is also in reducing social disparities and ensuring a high level of social mobility. Unfortunately, the proposed law does the opposite. The apprenticeship for many, at first sight, seems to be a very attractive solution. For we can often hear about the old masters and professions that are dying out, despite the knowledge and skills that are still essential and valuable today. But for this problem, we need to get a little wider. The key questions are two. First time. Can apprenticeship achieve the objectives of the educational system? And a second time. Who will benefit from the introduction of such a system? To answer this last question immediately, allow me to quote the position of the Student Organisation of Slovenia on the law on apprenticeship, which is from August of last year, but still valid. So who benefits from this marriage? I quote: "The focus is therefore focused and biased discourse, which also reflects the ratio of power and interests of the most interested stakeholders. Thus, the President of the Slovenian-German Chamber of Economics, Gertrud Rantzen, stressed that German companies are satisfied with Slovenia, but want more competent labour. It is understandable that German companies in the peripheral markets of the European Union want more well-educated, minimally paid labour force, with specific, strictly targeted skills needed to perform a specific work with, for example, a specific machine. The question is whether their interests are also the interests of Slovenian society." In short, what we are dealing with is Tanzt mit das Capital, a law that may have been written by Slovenian bureaucrats, but it was ordered by German companies that would like to import our people already ready-made for their production, but I will return to that later. The primary objective of secondary education, whether vocational, professional or general education, is the comprehensive development of young people. I'm stressing again. And from this point of view, although any training in the workplace is useful and appropriate, it cannot represent the main pillar of education. Under the current legislation, training in the workplace is legal. The Law on Vocational and Vocational Education clearly states that practical education in vocational and vocational education can be carried out as work-related training. There is already a possibility of practical training with work with the employer. However, the scope of this training lays down a specific educational programme. Which is, in principle, okay, because this practical part also contributes to a wide range of needed skills that our education is supposed to provide to a young person. On the contrary, this apprenticeship law proposes that at least 50% of the apprenticeships, i.e. at least half of the programme, be carried out as practical training with the employer and then at least 40% in school. This means that persons involved in apprenticeship education will spend more than half a year as part of three-year programmes with the employer. Involved in four-year programmes will spend more than two years in the workplace. The proposed law thus encourages the learning of specific specific skills linked to a specific job in a specific work process. In this sense, see, this proposal does not pursue the aims of education, Slovenian society and young people, it pursues the objectives of employers. It subsidises employers and is not expected to contribute to the education of young people. On the contrary. Early specialisation for the purposes of a specific work process, while reducing general knowledge, does not lead anywhere near the development of all the potentials of an individual, which is the primary purpose of the school system. The aim of the apprenticeship system, especially in the countries where it is developed, is to ensure that young people are employed as soon as possible in the German-speaking countries. If young people enter the apprenticeship regime, jobs will be easier for them. Young people's employment is a key issue of today's time, with emphasis on employment in general, as not only for young people but for all jobs are lacking. But, and here is the loathing of this logic, but unemployment in Slovenia and elsewhere is due to job shortages and not to incompetent or inadequately educated young people. Early employment of young people is, in fact, at a time when working hours are longer, when business workers have no real opportunities for co-decision and when they are under increasing pressure on their health due to the intensity of their work, it is more likely to hamper the development of young people who can contribute to the development breakthrough. And this brings us to today’s situation when we have a large number of young, highly educated, qualified people, yet they do not find a suitable job. And that's where we need to reverse logic. Not that these young people or future generations need to be dequalified or prevented from moving to higher education, transition to their own development, and so on, in the economy, such jobs need to be systematically opened so that young people, as well as all other workers, can find quality work, qualified work for decent pay. I've said this a number of times in this place, and I guess I'll have to say it again. If we have a thousand job vacancies and 100,000 job seekers, there could be 100,000 unemployed top-skilled geniuses and only a thousand of them will get a job. [[advertising from the hall]] Since the bill subsidises employers in the implementation of the apprenticeship form of education, it allows them to educate the labour force at their own level at public costs, namely budget costs, for the money of all of us, all of us citizens and citizens. This is how employers are supposed to pay only the apprenticeship prize from their pocket, and all other costs will be borne by the State. In addition, it is necessary to say here that the country will co-finance employers by the European Social Fund by 2021, and we all know that employers do not work from the depths of the goodness of their heart, but work because they simply need a new person in the company and take him to work in order to bring them profits in the future. In short, especially with regard to the level of compliance with labour law in Slovenia, it will happen very quickly that employers will use the apprenticeship system to obtain cheap labour. Placing apprentices in companies will also undermine the illusions of greater employability of apprentices. And it can happen that with apprenticeship we will get another derivative of the Holiday Work in Slovenia, which is, I mean, something that we really don't need, that is, new underpaid contractual forms of work. We already have a much too segmented labour market, in that we are first within the European Union after the permeability of young people. Which brings me to the public financial aspect of this proposal, where I have already mentioned, for an additional form of subsidisation of economic activity. And one has to wonder whose interest such subsidisation is. The answer is clear. In a system that practically does not know the co-decision of employees in a company that does not know the actual division of income, where the income of the management is sometimes 10 times, 15 times and more than the income of the workers. Subsidisation of the economy means subsidisation of the management and capital owners, which is said to be a privileged narrow layer rather than of the interests of the working class, which should be primarily intended for the apprenticeship system. And these managers and capital owners also directly say that they expect — and of course they already receive — large-scale incentives from public funds, i.e. public funds that should, by definition, provide public interest, go directly into the private pockets of those already privileged in this society. Instead of reducing social differences and ensuring a high level of social mobility, those involved in apprenticeship forms of education will get exactly the opposite, differences in society will be strengthened, which will strengthen the vicious circle of poverty. We know that in today’s society the biggest obstacle to accessing the entire education is the wealth situation of an individual or his or her family. This applies indirectly, and this applies directly, because of the costs of education and because many young people have to start working because of their poor financial situation in the family before they can even take advantage of all educational opportunities. This will lead to the decision of deprived young people primarily because they are expected by their families and because their condition and vital needs are forced into the early independence that apprenticeship is expected to offer. In addition, they will be motivated by the apprenticeship award, which does not exclude other social benefits. Such apprenticeship is based on an agreement which, while relatively temporary social security, also accepts hierarchical social separation and low social mobility. A good indicator of whose interest is the introduction of apprenticeships in Slovenia is the reactions of representatives of secondary schools and students and students to the proposed law; in the first place, I have quoted a few words written by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Here, too, the law – this was their record, their position – follows the employers' line, that the objectives of apprenticeship are not defined, that the proposal is reckless, and that it reproduces social inequalities and forms of exploitation. Students and students say that increased employment will only show up in a handful, and they are right. If I finish. Let us ask ourselves who we accept this law as. For short-term interests, the employer, possibly even German companies, or for long-term and strategically defined objectives of the Slovenian company? In the current proposal, the school is understood as a service for employers, whose main purpose is to provide workers that are as compatible as possible with the current requirements of businesses, is to say that they are qualified for their work process. Furthermore, the proposal does not provide that the apprentice will be provided with further safe employment with the employer. Because of all the problems that this bill has, we cannot support it in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Ministry has finally tabled a proposal for a law on apprenticeship. It is a pity that the ministry has delayed for such a long time, since every day lost in this area means a less efficient education system and, consequently, a more difficult transition of young people from vocational education to employment. In the basic programme of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we wrote that there is a need for a closer integration of theory and practice in education, especially in secondary education and vocational education and at higher education level. Vocational, vocational and secondary education play an important role in the development of staff and affect the development of municipalities, regions and countries. We advocate linking theory with practice and achieving higher levels of knowledge. Despite the general principle of support for the above mentioned, currently Slovenian professional and vocational education is far from those objectives. The proposed government law means the first step, only the first step in the right direction. Certainly, this first step is not optimal. The bill feels that the law, or its proponents, was primarily a hostage of trade unions, perhaps even of schoolchildren. How else can we explain a provision that practically limits apprentice training to a maximum of 8 hours per day, which is fine, but not more than 36 hours per week. Successful countries with a highly developed and established apprenticeship system for decades, such as Germany, have been aware of a different regime. For a few months, the apprentice has continued to train with the employer and for the rest of the time in school. So both at a larger time interval. This ensures a smooth process of learning theory on the one hand and practice on the other. Christian Democrats estimate that this makes the law worse, and as a result, young people and employers are losing it because it will take more time to re-engage in the work than if the processes are running smoothly for a longer period of time. We must note that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has made it clear that although a number of their proposals have been taken into account in the proposal, they have highlighted many of the shortcomings that need to be addressed. We can all read their suggestions in the letter we received. The law unnecessarily lays down certain additional conditions for mentors. Let us imagine a family business where all the employed professionals are without pedagogical education and the apprentices would need to continue and expand their activities. We believe that you and the social partners have had firm negotiations on the prescribed level of the prizes for the apprentice. Whether the proposed €250 prize for the first year, €300 for the second and €400 for the third year of education is appropriate, only employers will be able to assess in practice. This is also an example of hyperregulation in Slovenia. Perhaps it would be wiser to set only the lower limit and leave the rest to the employer who would reward a good apprentice according to his performance and his diligence. It is good that the employer to pay this award is not yet burdened by the payment of social security contributions. The fact that the payment of the contributions has been taken over as its cost by the State provides an incentive for employers to make easier decisions on the admission of apprentices. The provision that the employer should also pay the apprentice for the duration of his hospital absence is outside the normal area. What kind of message is this in the educational sense? When we talk to former apprentices, everyone speaks mainly of the educational component of apprenticeship. Let me conclude with the expectation that the law in the second reading will continue to be thoroughly updated and improved, as there are still a number of shortcomings and bad solutions in this. Despite all the shortcomings I have mentioned and not all of them, the Members of New Slovenia estimate that the law deserves this opportunity and we will vote in favour of the law being suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you and a nice greeting, respectable colleagues and colleagues! With the draft law on apprenticeship, which we will discuss today, the government has finally taken a step that we have been waiting for since 2015. The apprenticeship was regulated by the Vocational and Vocational Education Act between 1996 and 2005, but the implementation of the Act by 2005 showed that apprenticeships had not achieved their objectives in this way, as young people had made fewer and fewer decisions on such forms of education. In our Group of Members, we continue to stress the importance of adopting new legislation in this area, and we will therefore support the proposal for a law. The draft law will, according to the applicant, allow young people early professional socialisation and its purpose will be reflected in the approximation and integration of the education system and the economy. We would like to see the re-implementation of the apprenticeship system again bringing the entry into the fields of secondary, vocational and vocational education for which there is really not enough interest. On the other hand, by providing adequate workforce in the labour market in view of employers' demand, it is these professions that improve the economic development and employability of our young people. Despite our support for the bill, however, I will point out some points that have also been up to date in the public debate. On this occasion, I first stress the importance of properly regulating the position of the apprentice, since, despite the student status, he is actively involved in the employer's work process, for which he will also receive a salary in the form of the so-called apprenticeship award. And right here, I miss a concrete presentation or analysis of the financial implications that the enforcement of the law would have for employers and possibly even for schools. It is essential to ensure good cooperation between all stakeholders involved in the training and preparation of apprentices for self-employment in the implementation of apprenticeship programmes. The importance of a clear agreement is also crucial in relation to the educational content offered to the student by the school and the content for which the employer is responsible, the mentor. The same educational standard should be provided for both participants in the school form and participants in the apprenticeship form of the same educational programme. Finally, as the law that we adopt is adopted primarily for and for young people, it is crucial that they themselves are actively involved in the further process of regulating apprenticeship. We have heard such warnings from both the student and the student organisations that they did not have a voice and a word in the drafting of the bill. After all, the law will have the most impact on their future and their career path. Therefore, they must not be hindered when they are formed and their comments must not only be heard, but also taken into account. We believe that positive results will soon be demonstrated, taking into account the opinion of all stakeholders, especially with the provision of good and qualified mentors, which are the conditions for the success of the apprenticeship system. Of course, the apprentices themselves must be motivated and interested in the profession they have chosen. As I said before, we will support the draft law on apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u17	The word is given by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, Dr. László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The problem of vocational vocational education, the so-called dual system and apprenticeship, has long been the focus of the planned transformation of our educational system, but despite certain corrections to the overall breakthrough so far. In our parliamentary group, we therefore welcome the preparation of the draft law on apprenticeship, and we will be in the first reading, despite some open issues that will need to be regulated in the next legislative process, and we will also support the proposal. We want the final version of the apprenticeship law at the optimum level to achieve the objective of ensuring the transfer of knowledge, skills and professional skills needed to carry out a particular profession in order to take account of the actual need for the labour market. Unfortunately, so far it has only been partially pleasing. As a result, we have experienced a lot in recent years. That, unfortunately, is still true today. We believe that, at the stage of the adoption of the law, particularly in the framework of the work of the parent working body, it will be necessary to listen to the proposal of the interested professional public as much as possible. Above all, here I am referring to the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, which has already largely referred to the content which, from the point of view of potential practitioners of the practical part of education, has not yet been thoroughly completed. However, the second side of the medal must also be thoroughly examined. The partnership between the economy and educational and scientific institutions is certainly essential for the development of the country and for a stable labour market. The reintroduction of apprenticeships and training of future professional staff in the workplace will be a real response to this partnership if we carry out the process in a way or at least similar to what we know good practices in some Western countries. We could follow Austria’s example, but the Swiss model is certainly worth special attention. In addition, the social situation and the reputations of the high-level craftsmanship of the population there are so important that we imitate them in the preparation of this law. The model there is the right response to the creation of the so-called medium layer of the population, which in a qualitative and quantitative sense represents the pillar of society. We are confident that young people, who will largely upgrade their skills by working with employers and will also have direct contact with potential employers, will be better able to move from the education system to the labour market or to employment. This measure, in the event of the proper participation of all stakeholders in the system, including, or in particular, students or apprentices, will greatly affect their unemployment and social exclusion. For employers, this undoubtedly means greater coordination of the educational process with their needs and a more appropriate form of employment. They will receive trained staff and will facilitate the employment of young people and integrate into the education system. In all of this, it will be very important that the system responds flexibly to actual labour needs. As far as this is concerned, they have not been successful in this regard in recent decades. The expansion of the practical part of training in tertiary education should also be considered, and there are also many issues. The education of future craftsmen and professional workers, or the partnership between the economic sphere and educational institutions that develops in this area, is, or may be, important for the development of national mixed areas and the language of national communities, which is equal in Slovenian in those areas. Students participating in programmes based on the provisions of the apprenticeship law will also be able to deepen their skills and professional language competences in addition to educational institutions in their own language employers. This will make it easier for them to create an opportunity to work with employers. In parallel, a staff will be created, which in addition to professional competences will also be part of the needs of the national mixed area from the point of view of language specifications. The added value of the system can certainly be added here if we are consistent in implementation. This is worth noting because, unfortunately, we are still not the most successful in implementing and upgrading the general part of national or bilingual education, despite the efforts of the competent ministry. From this point of view, we are also considering the text of the bill, which we are discussing today, because it is likely that some addition to the current text will be necessary to upgrade the proposal appropriately. In doing so, we hope for the obedience of the bill-maker, that is, the ministry, and of course the coalition itself. As I have already announced in the introduction, in the first reading, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u19	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! We have debated the re-awakening of apprenticeship in this mandate on several occasions, in fact from the very beginning, and we are pleased to see today, in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, a new law on apprenticeship with which we are pursuing important social objectives, namely the establishment of early and better professional socialisation of young people, the closer integration of the educational system and the economy and the labour market, the search for new opportunities and opportunities for youth employment, the strengthening of education and training in a way that will be as close as possible to the real working environment and the needs of employers. Let us first point out that we are aware that apprenticeship is not and cannot be an absolute or miraculous remedy against youth unemployment. However, it can play an important role in reducing youth unemployment, social exclusion and in facilitating the transition from education to employment. We simply need to be aware of this as responsible parliamentarians. It is plausible that young people who have entered the labour market after school, although better qualified than ever, are not ready for employment; that during and after the crisis every 10 jobs have been abolished, where employees have been less than 30 years of age; that European countries that are well placed to deal with youth unemployment have a common apprenticeship system. Many studies show that the labour market in the youth segment has successfully stabilised in recent years mainly to countries that allow young people to connect education with work. There is also evidence that persons who complete vocational education and training, and in particular those who complete apprenticeships, tend to be better placed to work. All of these are indicators indicating that the decision to reintroduce apprenticeship is right and necessary. Let us stress that this is not only the decision of this government and this coalition, but the various actors involved in this awakening. In fact, we are pleased to be able to talk about social consensus in reintroducing apprenticeships within the vocational and vocational education system. The need for this has already been highlighted in previous discussions of some other versions of the law. Today we will probably hear more than once that the government has done nothing in this area, that in practice nothing happens, that the law has been written by others, that there are only so many words, beautiful photographic memories and so on. Respected and respected, the Law on apprenticeship is the result of years of work, of various professionals in the field of vocational and professional education, of the labour market and of the economy, based on the efforts of this Government, this coalition and the departmental ministry, following the establishment of a strong alliance between the economy and education, which is a condition for the successful implementation of the apprenticeship system. From the outset, we have been stressing the need to strengthen vocational and professional education in the Task Force of the Modern Centre Party. We are aware of the positive effects offered by the apprenticeship model of education, at the same time we are and must pay attention to its traps and the responsibilities of individual stakeholders who are part of the apprenticeship. We estimate that the law we are discussing today has given us an appropriate reflection on the concept of apprenticeship. We are also pleased that a minimum consensus has been reached on the key components of the apprenticeship model among key stakeholders, as this is the basis for effective and effective implementation of apprenticeships. Of course, certain solutions need to be tested in practice so that we can assess over time what its effects are. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, however, we must express our disappointment that, after a number of coordinations made before and during the drafting of the bill, and even now that the law has been in Parliamentary procedure for a month, certain actors on individual parts of the law have changed their views several times. Of course, the National Assembly is the arena that is still being supplemented, amended and improved by laws, and we will pay attention to this in the follow-up to the apprenticeship law, but not in the use of the parliamentary arena as a commanding area to achieve those interests that stakeholders have failed to achieve during the drafting of the bill. In particular, it is not in such a way that such requirements absolutely condition the effectiveness of apprenticeship in practice. If we are honest, then we can admit that the legal obligations of individual actors are justly determined only by the consistent fulfilment of each of them's commitments, and the apprenticeship project can be successful in ten, fifteen and perhaps even more years. It is right that, during a certain transitional period, the State, through various measures, encourages employers in the exercise of apprenticeships. The proposed law is more than followed. However, each shareholder must also assume part of its responsibility, so we do not agree with the Group of the Modern Centre's views on cheap labour, on external pressure to reintroduce apprenticeship, or on the position that craftsmen and employers in such a law do not see interest and so on. The law gives the right and responsibility to all key actors and it is right to respect them. A few more words about the rights of the apprentices. The Group assesses that these are properly protected and protected in the proposal, and provides for a number of safeguards to prevent the unilateral behaviour of individual actors in the exercise of apprenticeship. However, this must be based on the basic status of apprentice given to him by law. If the implementation of the envisaged solutions proves that rights are insufficiently protected and protected, we will propose amendments in the parliamentary group as responsible legislators to correct this. It is irresponsible, however, that we share flat-rate assessments of the insufficient protection of the rights of apprentices at the outset of all the safeguards envisaged by the law. It is obvious that apprenticeship will only be ongoing until employers' incentives are available, however, in the parliamentary group we estimate that the law is ready in a way that it will live even after 2021. However, a prerequisite for this is consistent compliance with the legal obligations of all key actors, both countries and employers, trade unions, schools and apprentices themselves. Everyone has to contribute their share. Since the bill is designed in the right direction, where it enables early professional socialisation, greater interaction and better integration between the economy and the education system, as it promotes lifelong learning and offers opportunities to promote youth employment, we will support the conclusion in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor to prepare for the mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, as we have heard, today we are considering a proposal for a government law which, according to a particular situation, I think is optimally coordinated with the major stakeholders, we are considering a proposal for a apprenticeship system or dual education that we knew years ago, but for various reasons we have unfortunately been forced to leave. Personally, I believe that the introduction of apprenticeship is certainly part of only better education and the acquisition of certain practical competences, but it is certainly also one of the most important pillars for reducing unemployment and social exclusion of those young people who, of course, opt for a career or a career. This, of course, is also in the light of the fact that the craft or small craftsmen, that they are certainly an important part of the Slovenian economy, and in fact the proposal of the law is in some way more important to this particular sector of our society. We have already stressed in the SMC programme, and we continue to stress the need to strengthen vocational and professional education and, of course, we are also aware of all the positive effects offered by the apprenticeship model. Of course, apprenticeship as such is not a magic wand, which, of course, could solve all the problems and difficulties of young people, but I am convinced that in this proposal, the legal requirements of both employers and the Chamber of Commerce, as well as of the apprentices, in my opinion, are appropriate, correct and also fairly determined and that only with their consistent respect and understanding will they be fully respected by each of the mentioned stakeholders, i.e. apprentices, employers and, of course, the Chamber of Commerce, will we be able to speak of the apprenticeship project as a successful project, even when there is no specific funding from the State or from the European funds, as it is in this case, after 2022. Indeed, I am also saying this because, of course, we must be aware that, during the transitional period, the country is, of course, obliged to implement certain measures which would encourage a system of integration between education and the economy, but we must also be aware that this system must become self-sufficient over time. That is why, of course, I cannot agree to certain demagogic positions on the exploitation of labour, but that, of course, this system of apprenticeships may not be of much interest to the various craftsmen or economics, nor do they really have any interest. Of course, even in terms of the views we have heard at the time of the public hearing as at the time — indeed — it is too long of coordination. But you know, when we're finally listening today, the government has finally drawn up the law and put it in the National Assembly, of course I hear it from people who are far longer in politics than I am. And I think we should stop deceiving ourselves in that sense. Because if the social partners had already identified themselves more responsibly in the beginning and were ready for dialogue, the ministry would, of course, have made the law much quicker and put it into the National Assembly. So I personally think that the law certainly gives rights and responsibilities to all those concerned by this law, and I think it is the same. The government law introduces the apprenticeship form in a way that 50 % of the education programme is carried out as practical training with work in one or more employers, depending on the educational direction itself, including with the possibility of inter-enterprise education centres, of course in accordance with the Vocational and Vocational Education Act. I particularly welcome this opportunity, also as Member of Velenje, where we certainly have not only one of the best, but also one of the most designed MICs or centres in Slovenia. An important novelty is that the apprentice status is based on the status of the student or person who is educated under the educational programme when he reaches the age of 15 years and performs apprenticeships which, as such, have signs of a working relationship. It no longer comes from the status of an employee, but from the status of an educated person. And I think that such a basic premise is important and is substantially involved and touches on the duties and conditions of both the apprentice and the employer, who are then somehow formally framed within the apprenticeship contract. Thus, the employer must have adequate working conditions and equipment; of course, in the past it must not be subject to a legal decision for infringements of the labour law, nor must a compulsory settlement procedure be imposed against the employer. The employer must have adequate working conditions and must also offer mentoring, i.e. a mentor who has some appropriate craftsmanship and even pedagogical knowledge, we are finally discussing the educational process and not some craftsmanship. It is also particularly important to me that the role of the Chamber, in cooperation with the school and employers, is to draw up a plan for the implementation of apprenticeships and, of course, also has a certain supervisory function, through the verification of working conditions and equipment, of course in the verified apprenticeship posts, as well as the apprentice training process itself. Here I have to say that this last one seems particularly important to me, also because I do not take the Chamber of Commerce as individuals, as an exclusively interested group, but especially as a defender of someone who will preserve the tradition and discipline of craftsmanship that has developed in the Republic of Slovenia. And it seems to me that in this sense, when we talk about apprenticeship, the role of the Chamber of Commerce is particularly important. I also particularly welcome this role, or this thinking, in the light of the fact that this should really be a mecca of our national mentality, how we really understand the tradition and the care of tradition and, of course, of discipline. Unfortunately, in our society, thinking about this is too superficial. The apprentice must also exercise his or her training according to the instructions and supervision of the employer, maintain his or her apprentice's log regularly and, of course, must refrain from any conduct that could materially or morally harm the employer's business interests. It will be paid the apprenticeship prize, which must not be less than EUR 250 in the first year, 300 in the second and 400 in the third year, this prize will not affect the family's remuneration, which means that it will not be included in the family's total income, and thus, of course, will not affect possible social protection rights. The apprentice will have a guaranteed reimbursement of food and transport costs and will also be granted a reasonable absence in the event of illness, death in the family or in the case of elementary accidents, in accordance with the working legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. It will be included in compulsory disability and death insurance, also for injuries at work and occupational illness. Of course, the apprentice will not be allowed to abuse the apprenticeship system and the apprenticeship will also be able to break if the apprentice, for example, does not appear in the workplace for at least five days without any excuse, or if he in any way violates his obligations and the rules provided by the apprenticeship contract and is thus able to be disciplinaryly responsible. However, of course, the employer will also have to stick to the law and meet all certain conditions; otherwise, of course, the apprentice will be able to break this contract. When we talk about these rules of mutual cooperation, we talk about mutual respect. This is something that, of course, we strive for and want also in the Modern Center Party and we do not feel any need to call for help, as we have heard, the late Margaret Thatcher. So I believe that the proposal, in view of the desired objectives, is certainly good and that it builds up the starting points for raising the quality, evaluation and attractiveness of vocational education programmes. This proposal certainly renews the dual education system, which has basically produced good results for acquiring knowledge and powers for a later career path. With this end we realize not only the promise to the electorate but also the substance of the coalition treaty. And while we are talking about copy-paste, it may be necessary to review client programmes before such statements, of course, before someone politically owns the apprenticeship system itself. So much for philosophical flossules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u23	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Get ready for Mr. Jean Mahnic and the Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! My Group of Members of the New Slovenia Group visits the territory at least once a month when we travel all day to different parts of Slovenia and visit different companies and organisations. And what do entrepreneurs, craftsmen, employers, more or less tell us? Clearly, there is something wrong with our vocational education because young people who come from these vocational schools come practically without the necessary knowledge. And many employers say that when they get a young person from school, it takes at least half a year to train him to this extent so that he can work alone in a more demanding job. They also point out that they expect the country to make such a professional system or such an educational system at a professional level, that when a young person comes from this educational cycle and educational institutions, he will be able to work immediately or very quickly so that there is not much time to invest in education. Throughout the world, and especially in Europe, they know a dual system, we can also call it a apprentice system where a student or a student is educated in school and the rest in the workplace. And it is with this combination that we get young people who already know the work after the end of this educational process, are properly trained and can work without delay. For the time being, we do not have such an effective system in Slovenia, which is why this law on apprenticeship is of course welcome, although too late, but is still welcome. I would do another context in which Slovenia works, and why there has been a lot of damage in Slovenia lately, and why we need a very good law on apprenticeship. Most likely, you all remember well those famous winged women. Learn that you won't have to work! In my opinion, this is all a very well-known socialist winged woman, who is in fact very flawed and has done enormous damage to Slovenia and to our educational process. I'm lucky, maybe someone will say bad luck that my relatives live in Germany, specifically in Stuttgart. Now how different is the mentality of school systems between Germany and Slovenia? At least I think that the common objective of this house is to make such an educational system that will help an economy that will produce young people who will be able to work and work immediately. But here, in comparison with German and Slovenian, I speak the current system, you see a significant difference. I have in Germany, as I told my relatives, and there was a young girl, my cousin, attending elementary school. In this primary school, she achieved extremely good results and according to a well-known Slovenian logic She learns that you will not have to work, so a woman in Slovenia would certainly be encouraged to be a lawyer, an economist, a doctor or something like that. But no, this girl has decided on some very specific vocational education. If in Slovenia parents gave a very successful student who achieves outstanding results in primary school, vocational education, they might ask one of the parents if he is not suitable for any conversation at the social work centre or perhaps elsewhere. But what kind of winged approach is learning that you won't have to do creation? I think it's creating a lot of well-educated young people, we are, by the percentage of young people going to high school at the European Summit itself, about, according to the latest data, between 35% and 45% of young people go to high school. But all of this is produced in the long run by young people who do not know what to do with themselves and who are searching for their whole lives. If this girl from Stuttgart, whom I was talking about, had been educated in the Slovenian school system, she would certainly have been forced by the school system and the whole society into some of these studies that I mentioned, and in the end they would have a frustrated or unhappy or a doctor, a lawyer or an economist. Now, in Germany, they will receive, say, a highly qualified pastry maker, because they have encouraged them there from a very small age, that it is not as it was with us or that winged woman learns that you will not have to work, that education is not the same as pay or if you have a higher education, it is not necessarily that you will have a higher salary. They have been brought up there since they were little to be successful if you want to earn well if you are extremely good and successful in some area. And there young people have known since the beginning that if a pastry chef is very good, he will have in Germany, if you want, pastry, bakery and so on, and will be richer in financial terms than a doctor or a lawyer. They are raised in this entrepreneurial spirit, and they have a completely different concept of raising young people from the very beginning. If we want to make a breakthrough in Slovenia, we also need to change the mentality and culture around it in Slovenia. Young people stop raping with this winged bird Learn that you will not have to work, but young people will be encouraged to make decisions about the professions they love, and if they love them, they will be able to shine in them if they shine, they will be successful if they succeed, they will make a lot of money. This is how we should encourage young people, and this is how our school system should be organised. The apprenticeship law is, of course, very important in this function. Another matter that we are reminded of by craftsmen and entrepreneurs when we walk in Slovenia. They say it doesn't help if you send us a student or a apprentice for two or three days a week to us and for the rest of the two days to school. In this way, the work process cannot be organised. If we want to train a young man, give him to us for 3, 4 months or for half a school year to work with us all the time, and the rest will go to school. Now in this law, which is before us today, it is only clear that half the apprentice has to work with an employer and half in school. I read very precisely, say, section 11 of the law, which writes about the plan for the implementation of apprenticeships, what all of this contains. It is not possible to determine from this Article whether this matter will work within the meaning of three days of school, two days of work, or whether the matter will go for months of work, several months of school. Then there is one article, paragraph 24, which speaks of what the burden of an apprentice may be so that she can give a maximum of 8 hours per day and 36 hours per week. In short, I would like to say that it is not possible to understand from all these provisions, which are written in the law, whether the apprentices will actually be able to work in one piece for six months with a company or a craftsman and the rest will go to school. I imagine that the influence of schoolchildren is probably very great here, and that they have put great pressure on the harmonisation of this law in the sense that they would still be a few days a week or at least two days a week for apprentices to come to school and work the remaining three days. Because if we send them to work for six months, then the kids have a problem, because how are they gonna get hours to justify their job, how are they gonna do these things? I don't think you should be doing schoolboys here, but you should be doing apprentices, craftsmen and entrepreneurs a favor. This is to make the system so that working processes can be effectively organised. I would ask further if the Secretary of State would comment on this matter, because, as I said, it is impossible to understand from the laws whether such a working process will be possible for several months a apprentice to work with a craftsman. Because if it does not, then I think that this law will be a little disabled and perhaps not most effective at the start, because especially tools or those who are more from the technical field, for example, for the hospitality it is easier to coordinate things I don't know for three days yes, for two days no, while in more technical matters this thing is much harder because it is connected and it runs over a longer period of time. There's something else I'd like to point out. There is also one technical problem that the students have warned us about, but that is how it will be with transportation. If, for example, apprentices from Upper Tuhinj will have to go to school two days a week in Ljubljana, but he will go to Vransko for work three days a week. That's two different directions. How is it gonna be here with the cards, how are these things going to be organized? These are very specific things that lead to a series of problems if they are not adequately solved. Finally, I would also like to draw attention to the comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I think their comments are on the spot. Their members will be those who will implement these programs, and if they are not satisfied with these programs, then they will not be taking apprentices. We can have a great law on apprenticeship, but if craftsmen and entrepreneurs see dangers, problems, obstacles, bureaucratic obstacles, they will simply not take apprentices. Then we will have a great marriage — something — and still not apprentices. And here I would point out, the next thing that makes sense to me, and to which the Chamber of Commerce also points out that you should, however, reconsider the status of these apprentices. The Chamber of Commerce advocates that they should have student status, in the law almost everything goes in the direction that the apprentices also have almost employee status. At least that is suggested and indicated by the reference to the collective agreement on certain rights, and the Chamber of Commerce points out that this should refer to this apprenticeship contract. And the last thing I want to point out is the specifics of individual professions. In this 25 or 24. The article states very precisely when an apprentice is allowed to work and when he may not work, and in particular for professions that are mostly or very often carried out during night or very late hours, this will be a major obstacle. And if we want to make a life law, then we should take these specifications into account and also write them in law in a way that takes these matters into account. As our fellow Member Horvath has already said, we will support this law at first reading, but of course we want another step to be taken until the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u25	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andreja Barle Lakota, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. While I would like to get some thoughts at the end of this debate, in order to avoid some confusion, I would like to explain to your specific questions in the meantime. First of all, because we want this apprenticeship to come to fruition and because we don't want another law where at national level it would regulate everything precisely and then not allow specifics, there are frameworks in this law. The framework for a specific sector with an implementation plan to clearly indicate what form of apprenticeship education is appropriate for them, it is said that there is nowhere to be determined, two days in school, three days here, because this will be the subject of a specific discussion with the industry. Because we had very precise meetings with employers, where they are and how they expect it, ideas were very different, so we wrote this down in the law. Then, as far as status is concerned. It is very clear in the law that the student, you are right, at the beginning of the discussion on apprenticeship, was very different ideas, and at that time the basic idea was that it was an employee who was being educated. For two years we have coordinated on this basis, and then we have simply found that the economy can't handle it, so the status in the law is now undoubtedly a student. However, we only apply to collective bargaining when it comes to professional socialisation. It is understood, however, that they are within his industry a collective agreement defining the status that he would have had if he had been employed. That's all it's about, and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u27	The word has been given to Mrs. Jan Mahnic, to prepare themselves for the Mag. Bojana Muršič and Mrs Vesna Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Yesterday a survey or scale was published in Finance, where Slovenia lives best. In the first place of the municipality of Železniki, in the third place of the municipality of Žiri and in the fourth place of the municipality of Gorenje vas-Poljane. In short, three municipalities from the constituency from which I come are said to live the best in Slovenia. This has already been the case in the December 2015 study. The parameters were different: average net salary, birth rate, infrastructure, unemployment, and based on these, our places from which I come have been placed at the very top of the country. The reason for that is simple. Because the mentality of people living in these places is different from that of urban centres and also in other places throughout Slovenia. Because there are people living in this place who do not even guarantee or seek salvation because they already have these solutions and live their daily lives in harmony with them. Since there are people living in these places, more than a third of them are craftsmen and entrepreneurs, the real reason why unemployment is 3.8% in the Polish Valley. I don't think it can be any lower. One of the highest average wages in the country. Let us ignore the fact that 75% of people in these parts choose the right party, because people are satisfied with life and, above all, because they know how the economy works, and therefore they choose the right and the left does not prosper there. What am I trying to say? I talked to a number of craftsmen and entrepreneurs from these parts when this apprenticeship law was discussed. They told me that this law was being passed too late and that it was a big mistake, that the dual education system in Slovenia had been abolished at all. True, there were mistakes, it was not what you wanted, but it would have been better to make things right then than to put an end to the matter. I focused most on this law when you wrote the review, or what the situation is in other countries that you listed as examples. And after we have processed this law in the parliamentary group, we find it difficult to compare ourselves with any model. Even more importantly, in Slovenia before 2021, the apprenticeship or this dual school system will not come to life in full. And there were too many questions, too many confusions, and all I'm interested in is: Which of the actors who will be included in this law or who will participate in their implementation, is satisfied or supported by this law? We've heard what unions think, we've heard what young people's opinions are like, we've heard what craftsmen and entrepreneurs think, we know what's going on with schoolchildren, where there's a lot of them, and let's say we're afraid of how this is going to go. For this reason, what exactly is meant by what you said, which I agree with you, of course, that our legislation is too much in this direction in all areas, to strictly determine everything, even in the field as it is, is it right to leave some room of manoeuvre, but are all the programmes and all the implementation plans for those you said would participate in this pilot project already specifically? And to what extent have the proposals of those involved in this matter been taken into account, namely, their umbrella organisations, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise? It is regrettable that we have not been reconciled earlier, even though we have spoken with the Ministry when we proposed this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. If we had already done so with the first Minister, Mrs Setnikar Cankar, who somehow also had a hearing for this, the apprenticeship was not only a point in the coalition contract, but was also one of the points in the programme at the time of the Modern Centre Party, but, for example, at the end of the term, a pilot project had already been completed or, at the end of the term, in 2018, after three, four years could already begin implementation. That's how it's going to go on now. I am particularly interested in your opinion as to whether, in view of the things that will prove to be positive or as likely to be negative, whether you will then be going to the amendment of this law, or whether you will be proposing new changes based on a practice that will show what the real situation is. Because now we're kind of in the dark. There's a proposal, we'll see if it's good or not good, we'll see how it goes in practice. Regrettably, even though this law will be passed, we, as we said, will neither support nor oppose it at first reading. We'll decide then, on the basis of the amendments at second reading. I think that, despite the fact that it will be confirmed, I think tomorrow is a vote that we cannot talk about having a dual school system in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u29	Would you like a Madam Secretary of State? You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to answer the specific questions raised because they are important for today's debate. First of all, it's about who's supporting the marriage. You are right, in the process of coordination there were quite a few conceptual establishments, as you well know, as I have already pointed out, from the fact that these were German models, Austrian to the fact that the status was different and so on Why did conceptual installations occur? Not because we would not know what we want, but mainly because this law is so demanding because it has to strike a balance between all the stakeholders involved in this process. This is what makes it so difficult, and this is also why we decided to marry. I agree with the questions raised earlier in the debate and the question of whether a new law is needed. We too have repeatedly wondered whether a new marriage was really needed. The idea that a new law is needed is precisely because, as I say, this coordination between the social partners and all stakeholders is really difficult and it is a different form of integration, as is the case in this classical school form. Who's behind him? In fact, no one is satisfied with this law to the end, for no one is fully satisfied with the concept. It is a matter of seeking a minimum consensus of balance in order to bring this form to fruition. This has been achieved before we have allowed ourselves to submit a proposal either to the Government or, of course, then the Government will submit it to you for further discussion. This minimum consensus has been reached. And now we're talking about concrete. The fact is, we're all worried about how things are gonna go. Certainly because we know how different the ideas of what apprenticeship is. These performances were truly endlessly different and in these coordination processes we have sought a common minimum consensus on what this country endures and how it could achieve its basic objective, which is a well-trained young person who is early in his or her career socializing and proving his or her excellence. That's the basic objective of our story. And I'm saying, looking for this minimum consensus, of course, then we've drawn some kind of picture of how this is supposed to go, without that, of course, it would be impossible. Whether this picture is going to run that way, no one can know for sure. But it's not true that we're just looking for a kind of fog, because of course it can't be. If they were to be in the fog, of course they would not be able to lay down the basic framework for determining how apprenticeship would really run. In order to test if this matter is really running, we will therefore introduce an experiment, 2017/2018 will run with an experiment. All further forms, if adopted, will then give the marriage a good enough legal basis to, of course, extend this apprenticeship to other forms as well as to other schools. Now, first of all, it's going to be on the test, and in those industries that we've told you several times that they've been set up together with MGRT and employers. Maybe I'll write them down a little bit: a bowl, a toolbox, a fireplace, a inn. These are the sectors that will be tested. In short, this law is a framework, just like all laws. It has all the potential to complement it. We think we have a plan together with the Chamber of Commerce and employers, how it's going to run in the fall, well-set enough that there won't be a type in the fog. So we really couldn't afford that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u31	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare the ladies, Vesna Vervega and Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a law that has really taken a long time to get it on the table, regardless of the fact that we have heard the proposals of the SDS Group several times before, but we have been waiting for this law. It is true that young people today face shortages of jobs and increasingly difficult market conditions, and this also causes them to enter the labour market after completion of education without adequate work experience. Of course, young people face work through students. These are informal works, but they are provided with sufficient guarantees for further employment the student work Ned gives them. It is important to introduce a system of apprenticeships, which was introduced from 1996 to 2006. He withdrew from the SDS government, even though his colleague mentioned it earlier. And why did he back off? Because, in fact, there was not enough interest among young people and many employers did not respect these obligations that they should have. I hope that this bill, which we have on the table today, will no longer do so. However, it should also be stressed that this dual system was abolished at that time, because it was not comparable to the neighbouring countries which have this dual system in such a way that it is a particular form of working relationship. Even in this proposal, we are simply not talking about this as a work relationship, but I think it is necessary to really consider this article, because in the past we had an integration into active public employment policies, which were active employment policies with the employment contract for 30 hours a week, and then this was counted during the working time. Therefore, I find it extremely unusual that we do not consider in this law that if a student is involved in an education or dual system of eight hours a day, 36 hours a week so that a proportional part of him does not count during his working hours. Now, however, we do not have any adequate assurance that this system will come to life. It should be pointed out that these most deficient professions are gradually introduced, such as stone-colds, mills, metal designers, tools, gastronomy- hotelers. These are the professions that have actually been lost during this time, and the river has really been applied Learn, learn, then you won't have to work, but I think in young people there is already a different thought. I will also specify myself because my colleague is also ahead of me to actually know a girl who was very successful at primary school and decided on a forestry technique. At first she was invited to a psychologist, why such a profession, but the girl was delighted and the girl was enrolled in this educational program, her desire was respected, and I must say that this educational program is very happy to visit and will also once chop wood, use saw, although this is a bit unusual for a woman's profession, but I must say that it is. He's got a lot of problems with the equipment himself, because the shoes aren't for girls, then the working form isn't for girls, but I believe she'll get over those obstacles. While I wish her good luck on this path, I believe that even when she completes this programme, she will be successful and happy to do this work. Why am I saying this? It is important that parents are the ones who allow the child to decide his/her own profession, often parents are the ones who expect a lot of things from his/her child, and then the results are such that we have these children then in the employment establishment a lot, and I think that here really needs to be looked at primarily by the child. What's really bugging me? This pedagogical-andragogical education for the mentor is on my way. That's what I think you're really going to have to think about, because someone who is a master in his field, a bowl, a stoneworker, I'm just going to say, I don't know, I don't imagine he's going to go to further education to have an Andragog education. I mean, it is to him that he well presents this work, to encourage young people as much as possible, to do this work with joy, and I believe they know this very well. I also worked for a while with the master tailor, who must say that she inspired me with her approach, and she also did not have any Andragog skills, and I believe she can do it. That's why it's Vladi's idea. There was also a speech, I mean, we definitely need a law. Better late than never. It must also remain that these incomes that students will receive will not be included in the base for all the other transfers that we are actually making. Perhaps she would also touch on this hospital absence, which my colleague also mentioned. I think it is right that this is also possible, because in fact everyone can be sick, including children, including students who are now in this system of practical education and only 14 days in the employer are sick. You can't do anything else when they get sick, they actually stay at home, and it's certainly better to have them at home for two or three days, than to pass the disease on to the working environment and then get sick the whole collective. I mean, give it to me, it's certainly well defined in this law. I also think that it is a very good restriction on work, which I have already mentioned, at 8 hours, at 36 hours a week, and also that it is impossible to work at night. Absolutely, since students are up to the age of 18, that certainly makes sense. But maybe it would be worth considering in these specifications, hoteling, I think it will be necessary to think, because the hotel manager is only working, I'll say, there are the biggest intervals at the weekend, and if we don't actually offer this opportunity to the student to see how this is happening on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, when the biggest frequency of guests is, we can blur the view a little further, and that's really meaningful. I think there are still a lot of things, and certainly the law is good at this first stage, but there will be a lot of changes to be made. While I am a little curious about how the funds will be available later, after 2021, as 2.7 million euros are now planned, of which 2.1 million euros will be financed by 2021. How will this matter take place after this year? In any case, it is suitable for further consideration, it will require corrective action, and the real law should come to life with 1. 9. 2017, for the school year 2017/2018, because it is written in the law that it will enter into force after its entry into force or within 6 months, but I think it would make sense to define it here, because, in fact, it does not benefit us if I sincerely hope that this will work out as soon as possible, because I see that the support is, in other words, that the SDS Members will somehow not oppose and will not oppose it, but I believe that we are all on the same track together and that, with their comments that are very correct, we could bring the law to life as soon as possible. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u33	Mrs. Vesna Vervega, you have the floor. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mrs Nada Brinovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, other present, nice greeting! It is true that more than ten years ago, a section on apprenticeship was deleted from the Vocational and Vocational Education Act because it did not have the desired effects because the stakeholders involved did not properly perform their work or their obligations. This is not a criticism of the current government, which has simply found, for some objective reasons, at a certain point, that there is no agreement between stakeholders. Consents that apprenticeships should continue to be carried out. However, today we are talking about the point where consensus among all stakeholders is present and the need for a apprenticeship system within the educational system or the apprenticeship form within it is also necessary, so I am very pleased that today we have before us this law on apprenticeship and we are talking about improving it, if necessary. One of the most important objectives of this law is to provide qualified personnel for the economy. This, of course, involves the economy in the education system and we have been talking about it for about 10 years or we are alerting the shortcomings of this connection, namely the imbalance between the number of professionally educated individuals, students and the number of jobs available at that time, has been at a very high level. I'm hoping this apprenticeship model will do it in part. I would like to respond to the previous comment by my colleague Tonin on the proportion of those enrolled in the high school programmes. Slovenia is at the OECD Summit on Enroling Students in Vocational Education. Half of young people between the ages of 15 and 19 are vocationally educated. Professionally educated young people also achieve a higher employment rate of up to 81%, while only 66% are in high school. With an invitation to enroll in secondary school programmes for the school year 2017/2018, there are 23 000 444 places available and of which there are only 30, I say, 30% in high school programmes. From 2009 onwards, there has been a steady increase in the proportion of those enrolled in secondary technical and vocational education or in the entire system of vocational and vocational education. So the ratio is 70 to 30. This means that young people see an opportunity in this system, or that a slightly greater choice of jobs is likely to be offered. The apprenticeship model offers the apprenticeship form. However, an individual has the status of a student, or at a time when he is doing practical work, of an apprentice with a apprenticeship and a signed apprenticeship contract. It seems very important to me that a 15-year-old may nevertheless have the opportunity to change from one form of school to another also because his decision on the first part was wrong, so this transition is very important to me. I would also like to stress what I have already said in previous discussions, that this pilot implementation of apprenticeship work is very important, in order to determine in fact what is meaningful, what is yet to be settled, and to look at the real needs of the economy, so that after the 2020 pilot system, things are more realistic and then resolved systematically. I also welcome the decision that the proposal for a law provides for the possibility that the apprenticeship contract will also be signed by the unemployed or those who want professional training. I do not understand the opposition or doubt that I have seen in the presentation of my colleague Lisco's position, because if we look at the last draft amendments to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education of September, which they have tabled in the procedure, in Article 5c, in the third paragraph, this is also provided for in their proposal. So: “The apprenticeship contract can also be concluded by someone who has graduated from a secondary vocational school or high school and is registered at the Employment Institute as an unemployed person.” I think this option is also very important for these unemployed people. This law is prepared with great effort, with minimum consensus reached among all stakeholders, where I hope that everyone recognizes and is aware of their responsibilities. That is why, of course, I absolutely support him at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u35	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mrs Irena Kotnik. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There is no talk of apprenticeship or changing the educational system from today, not from yesterday, because we have been warning here for several years that the needs of the economy are increasing, I will say, in the education system. I saw for myself that the marriage, and so you said, was in force on September 1st this year. Here I ask quite a few questions because, not least, as you said in your explanation, the matter has not yet been fully agreed. I really want to know, we had information days last week, young people were choosing jobs, young people went to see what schools they were studying. At the same time, I just want to know: Will all the expert schools for metal designers be included in this system, all the schools for stone-colds or, because there are not enough of them here, but for tool makers, all for gastronomy and all for messers? Because, you know, when young people make decisions, if he's interested in the job, he'll go look. Now all I want to know is, did they get the information on the news days that schools will have the apprenticeship system? I may have misunderstood here because, finally, the Information Fair at the Economic Exhibition was also held, and I am also interested in what this presence was because I did not see which schools would allow such a way of education. Of course, I think it's very important what the approach will be. You also said that it had not yet been decided what the approach would be. Will this be, say, 50% of the educational and 50% of the practice or work of a mentor in the economy? Why do I ask that? Because it seems to me that it is very important, in terms of the economy, that it is very important for young people who decide on this profession, in which they should continue their careers and live from then on, to see the whole process of the work process, not just Monday and Tuesday, when one specific is done in the company, Wednesday and Thursday, but not in the other. It's very important. And one thing is, it's very important that we do this together. I went to high school myself. We had some mandatory practices. But where do you get the most knowledge, the most experience? I had a human resources scholarship, and that month during our summer vacation we went to the company and worked out that practically one-month scholarship, or even more, depending on, it was possible to arrange, and one month it was mandatory, and there you met the whole process, there you met the people you later started working with, there people realized that you were a trustworthy person. I think it is very important to stress that those who go to such professions need to be confident that we do not have problems with sicknesses and diseases. This relationship must be established. Once this relationship is established, perhaps in the second or third year of education, it will result in a closer relationship with the mentor or prospective employer. This aspect must not be forgotten. I'd say we're actually a little late in this area. Also, when we go to the field with New Slovenia, several times they warn us that they get out of high school, including electricians or anything, in a company, they say that it takes almost another year to invest in mentoring and so on. You know, you can't just leave a good worker for a mentor, he's a lead worker, or he's a clerk, and there's really no time. Therefore, it seems to me that it is very important how you will implement and negotiate in advance, not least with employers or entrepreneurs, craftsmen who are willing to enter into such a way of education. The fact is, when we had such a system, we had the best welders in Slovenia. If I'm not mistaken, there was a secondary vocational school in Škofja Loka that gave extraordinary generations of good machine tools, welders. These were generations now between the ages of 50 and 55. Then this process of education has simply stopped, changed, and then on the market today looking for businesses, I will say, across neighbouring countries where they will get good workers. When we also visited certain schools outside our borders, in neighbouring Austria, they can say something interesting that every year there are more Slovenian students enrolled in education in Austria. I went to see who all the high schools allowed it. We have such educational secondary schools for economic occupations in Italy, Austria, Hungary, for example, Gorica. And it seems to me that they will tell why students choose such professions – because there is a much stronger connection to the economy and actually come to a better, more useful specific knowledge, advanced knowledge for their profession and their craftsmanship, which they are supposed to do in the future. I think it's very important. When we visited the economic secondary school in Šempeter, right across the border, they know to say, otherwise their education system takes five years, but when students finish their education system, they have an open path to all colleges. To all the colleges. Also right in Austria. They've got an open road to all the colleges. At the same time, she said that they had no idea what percentage of continuing education, because they all find a job, either alone or in some kind of family business, and they are making progress and then they are finally developing there. I think it's this model that we're instituting today or we're instituting a law on apprenticeship. We will not discover anything new, but let us take a look, but that we will really have the staff that will come to the market and will be able to add value to us, to the whole country, and that they will themselves be satisfied with their profession for which they will be educated and with their knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u37	Answers Dr. Andreja Barle Lakota, State Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. First around vocational education. Our quality of vocational education is also demonstrated by the achievements of Euroskills students, i.e. in international competitions. However, in line with your initiatives and economic initiatives, we also wanted to introduce a new form of vocational education, which is apprenticeship. Why are students not deciding or deciding in the past on the form of apprenticeships? Of course, there were more factors. Members of Parliament themselves have also mentioned the issues of values in Slovenian society, and I think we have already said that things are changing. Now I want to answer your questions about where we really are. Perhaps I have not answered clearly enough before to Mr Mahnic, who asked me something similar, and I see that I have not made myself clear from my reply. First of all, in this school year, the apprenticeship form will be introduced in autumn, already possible as an experiment. Why as an experiment? There are two reasons. The first reason, of course, is that we really want to test whether the implementation forms will be, is not a concept, an implementation form of a particular lesson, indeed an appropriate one. And that's what we want to try. Secondly, it was not possible, of course, on the informative days of the directive, to say the same thing and so on, because the law has not yet been adopted. Thus, the ministry has made a promise to you in this Parliament several times that we are committed to introducing the apprenticeship as quickly as possible, by an experiment. In an attempt one year earlier, we did not hope to go in any way, precisely because, conceptually, this minimum consensus between the stakeholders was not reached. Now, in the process of drafting the law, we have achieved and prepared a parallel experiment. So this year's experiment will be introduced. And since an experiment has been introduced, it is, of course, introduced to a limited number of schools, five schools. Believe me, in December, January, we worked hard on fully implementing plans, so it is not a question of tipping in the dark, but of very clear implementation plans for schools that will carry out this experiment, and of course with the activities that this experiment will have, it is said, it was necessary to discuss thoroughly with the tools, the stone-colds and so on, employers, how they even imagine what they want. Whether they want to have it there for two days or they want to have it for three days, or not even the first year, and so on, that's what it's all about. So it's not that we don't know what we want, it's mainly that the implementation form, the concreteness has to be focused on the particular sector, because something else is a inn, something else is a stonework and so on. Well, that's why I don't answer you, yes, he'll be in school for two days because I can't answer you because it's up to the industry. So when I talk to you about how it depends, I'm talking about an implementation plan, not that we have no idea how. So that's what this is about. And on your question, did we inform them on the information days, inform them, tell them which employers, especially, we discussed with the chambers what information we would give to make it unique information and so on. And what we started as soon as the decision came down to trial is a special group that meets every week. The group, however, is formed at the Centre for Vocational Education in order to avoid anyone from knowing or preparing anything until the students are involved. I really assure you that we are not anxious about this, far from this, everyone may be too concerned and we sometimes deal with details, with really details, but I am sure that this will ensure good implementation then. But I have to say as you say, maybe it's a Slovenian specialty that we're worried about, all sorts of things we're worried about, and then we're constantly worrying about new worries, new worries, so it was a decision to try. I guess it took a lot of courage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u39	Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kotnik and Jelka Godec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! I will repeat once again what my colleague Tomaž said in his position that we have already proposed three times in our parliamentary group the amendment of the Act on Vocational and Professional Education, because we wanted to regulate this field of apprenticeship and we are still somehow convinced that it would probably be more likely to be subject to this law and that no specific law should be drawn up. When I watched a little while ago when this marriage was public debate, it was a little funny, that's seven. Seven to 18. 8. During vacations, students as well as craftsmen or employers are on vacation or on leave. It was a little unfortunate date from your side. The fact is that the changes to this law of ours, which we have proposed on vocational and professional education, or that your new law on apprenticeship have definitely been greatly enjoyed by employers or craftsmen and students. Unfortunately, from the discussions or from the responses we receive from the field, it can be seen that their joy at looking at this proposal of your apprenticeship law has somehow passed. Somehow we hear on the ground that we have now actually got a student who will have a little more work practice and, on the other hand, we will get more dissatisfied craftsmen if this law is to happen. I hope that the debate will be further improved and that the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce and its sections will also be taken into account. Last night I watched a video of the Minister's press conference where she talked about that this law was in line with all the factors, including the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, but that is not true. Yesterday we listened to the President of the Chamber of Commerce, who said that from the beginning they had been involved in the drafting of this law with you, two days before this law went to the Government, you changed it on your side four times, so they could not comment on your changes. And if we look at these comments by the Chamber of Commerce in the magazine Tradernik, it came out a few days ago, we see here seven such strong remarks by the Chamber of Commerce regarding the apprenticeship of the city, regarding apprenticeship in extraordinary education. The Chamber of Commerce considers that apprenticeship as a form of extraordinary adult education should not be subject to this law and that this should be regulated in a special or other law. The Chamber of Commerce shall also comment on the burden of apprentices. Reimbursement of the apprenticeship award, reimbursement of the costs associated with the business trip and the field allowance of the apprentices, cancellation of the apprenticeship contract, we have heard this several times today that the employer, the craftsman will not know how many ways he will be bound or will not have how many conditions he can cancel this contract, but the apprentice will be able to say from today to tomorrow, cancel the contract for no reason. However, what is a strong observation of the Chamber of Commerce as regards the collective agreement is that the apprentice has the status of a student and is educated in a teaching post, so their opinion is that the involvement of collective agreements and trade unions is by no means intermediate. But I would say, now I have read these comments from the Chamber of Commerce, the management of the Chamber of Commerce, which has worked with you on the preparation, but I would say that I am very much concerned, including the comments of the regional trade organisations and their sections. I don't know how familiar you are, but I think it's best that I read part of their writing. See, they say: “The proposal is in total conflict with the interests of craftsmanship and potential apprentices, so we cannot support it. We also do not understand why a broader debate has not been opened after the sections included in the apprenticeship system, as this would have resulted in negotiators having a starting point where they could negotiate more easily. The will of certain high-ranking officials at the Chamber of Commerce, who, without cooperation with professional services, sections and other institutions, have decided on such important matters on their own, without consultation and cooperation with other stakeholders, is unacceptable. The apprenticeship means the development of craftsmanship in the future and it does not matter what it will be, so it is incomprehensible that anyone is allowed to negotiate and conclude on behalf of craftsmen without having written consent from them or their sections.” I hope that the regional chambers and their sections will be at least until the second reading or the adoption of this law in the National Assembly, in order to harmonise themselves or to take into account the comments and opinions of the regional organisations. I think that the fact is that here is definitely to be taken into account, I will not say the wish, but the needs of the employers of craftsmen and also the wishes and needs of apprentices, because without each other it does not go. If we don't have employers on the one hand who don't have an interest in hiring an apprentice, we may not know how good the law is when it doesn't work. Look, since the law will be ready to take into account really the comments of those coming out of the field, they will have the most students. Students will be able to prepare for their profession for six months free of charge, and for that they will receive a prize — I am happy that this prize is also determined that it is not a miserable amount — and if these apprentices show themselves during the internship or apprenticeship, they will eventually be given a job. But if we look on the other side, what does a craftsman or employer get? I'd say he might be a little bit worse at the moment. For the first time, well, he will offer mentoring, he will be responsible for the apprentice, we know what protection means at work and so on. If the law goes any further than that, which says that an apprentice can cancel a contract today, tomorrow or at any time, I think it is very negative for a craftsman or an employer or almost unacceptable. Look, some craftsman will also bring his knowledge to this apprentice, this apprentice will work on his machines, we know that there are many expensive machines that may be damaged by some ignorance or apprentice, but I don't want to pin this on an apprentice or whatever. During the apprenticeship, the apprentice will familiarize himself with a variety of business secrets of a craftsman. And finally, this apprentice will be a good apprentice, he will get a job with this craftsman, because he's good, maybe one year, he'll go elsewhere to work, he'll take a possible s.p. and whatever, and he'll automatically compete with the one who gave him mentoring earlier. This is all nice and right, and it is right that this is happening, but I want to say that the difference is that there are advantages and disadvantages for the apprentice and craftsman or employer in all of this. I'm a little disturbed here by this section of this law or I don't understand it, but please help me understand it. Article 4 states that, in the apprenticeship form, at least 50% of the education programme is carried out as practical training. That is to say, I understand 50% if 10 months of school year, 5 months of school year, and I say, it is not important for two days a week or whatever, but when the minister had a press conference and there was a talk about whether apprenticeship would cause additional costs in the budget, the minister said: "Being aware that in the first year only three to five weeks of practical training will be provided to employers for an individual apprentice, and given that the apprentices will not be more than 200 in the coming year, we do not expect more than 20,000 euros." I think it's kind of a lapsus, because I just understand that it's gonna be six months, just like the law says. I would like to go through all this debate, which will undoubtedly still be quite boisterous, to finally come up with one such law that will be in the best interests of both the apprentice and the employer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u41	I give the floor to Dr Andreja Barle Lakota, State Secretary, before continuing the debate on Members and Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The debate will certainly be gruesome, at least after the work I have done so far in the harmonisation of the law, because, as we have said many times before, interests are very different. Today's debate also proves that what someone stresses as important is someone else's exclusion, such as the role of trade unions and the like. First, I would like to explain the role of the Chambers, then something about comments and on the latest concrete implementation forms. As far as the role of the Chambers is concerned, I assure you that since last February, when this concept of the student was nevertheless appropriate, so that the apprenticeship form cannot be carried out otherwise, the Chambers have been included as co-creators of the entire law. Even more, some stakeholders, such as trade unions, students, and schools, have found that they have been given a preferential role. Now, why didn't they see the proposal in the end, as you said? That's absolutely true as you put it. Four times the record changed when they didn't see it, just before the record went to the government, but we're legal records in one point not substantive. It is true, however, that later we were aware that the regional chambers were still asking some more substantive questions, which we no longer had an impact on because we were working with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The fact is that we have taken all the comments seriously, I assure you. The proposal for a law came to those where we reached a minimum consensus with different stakeholders. As far as the collective agreement is concerned. I must say that we have been warned in due time, i.e. in advance of the Government's submission, that they feel that the indication of the collective agreement – this is mentioned, as you know, in the case of a collective agreement, where it says: “The monthly amount of the apprenticeship fee referred to in the preceding paragraph may be higher if so provided by the collective agreement on the activity that binds the employer.” So the only reference is this one. They warned us that if we were to mention a collective agreement, someone might get the impression that it was an employee. We don't refer to it anywhere else. In my firm belief, and so many lawyers, this has examined that it is true that it is always a basic intention for a student and not an employee. Thus, the only reference to the collective agreement is this and applies exclusively to the apprenticeship form. Now only to your question regarding the implementation of Article 4. Article 4 must be read as if it were an educational programme, so it must be achieved within three years. In three years. When I tell you that I'm not sure if they're going to be in school for two days and so on, we can't even answer the question of whether it's necessary for us to hunt this relationship in our first year. It's not necessary. It's not necessary. So, she's going to an education program. Also, many times they asked me why we gave at least 40% of the general education programme. That is why, at least 40, it can be slightly more, depending on the industry, even here this flexibility is allowed, and at least 40 to protect the standards, and these are the standards where I forgot to reply to Mrs Dimic's Members, which is why these standards to this height are set to then allow the apprentice to actually progress within the system if he would like to. Although it's not a basic intention. It is said that he has sufficient general education skills, he has the same standard as if he were actually implementing a school form of vocational education.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u43	Mrs Irena Kotnik has the floor to prepare Mrs Jelka Godec and Ms Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u44	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The system of education, vocational education has already been very well established in Slovenia alone. I will not discuss today why he did not live, why he failed or collapsed, but I will only add here that I did not expect so much coordination to be needed to finally get this bill back on the table. As we have already discussed and, as we have heard on one side several times today, the Secretary of State who said that these most urgent agreements have been reached with all partners, I am sure that I have not yet heard what seemed to be very important today, but that experts in the field of vocational and professional training have also been involved in all these coordinations. So another part is added here so that this law of apprenticeship can truly achieve its purpose and purpose. During this time, when this law was being prepared, I talked to quite a few entrepreneurs and private people, economists and all these conversations, and I could get two things out of it. All agreed that persons entering the labour market after completion of their education were not qualified enough and that there were some comments or suggestions or opinions that some entrepreneurs or craftsmen did not get a certain profile of the persons they wanted or needed to carry out their work. When we talk about what systems they have in neighbouring countries, it just occurred to me that we might look at how successful entrepreneurs have solved these problems when we talk about this apprenticeship. And here you might mention LTH Castings and Domel. I was with them, and I was very surprised at their system, namely, they grant scholarships to students, students have the opportunity to train in them, they have the opportunity to work later, and more importantly, they also have the opportunity to make career progress. In addition, they also associated with the local environment, which is said to have helped local students to get jobs. This is exactly what colleague Mahnic said earlier, that in the Polish Valley it is precisely because of craftsmen and these entrepreneurs that the minimum rate of unemployment is. We talked about the reward that entrepreneurs are supposed to give to the apprentice for this training period, and here I have already seen that there are different opinions, some people think that this is too much of a cost to the entrepreneur. But my vision of these awards payments, I look at them completely from the other side, from the fact that the apprentice will approach this apprenticeship, training with joy to a certain profession, with desire for knowledge and motivation. And if then, on the other hand, the employer recognizes the need for a certain profile and wants his company to be successful, then I don't see any problem here in paying this prize. Of course, as with every marriage, things are good, or they offer positive solutions, but of course there are traps. However, in the course of the implementation of these pilot projects prepared by the Ministry, it should also be pointed out that this implementation will be very well controlled and that evaluation will also be carried out. Which means that the relevant conditions will be linked to successful implementation and that the appropriateness of the curriculum will also be checked here. And that's exactly how things are going to show up here that are good, and things that might need to be changed. Although we have quite a few positive things in this law, greater social inclusion, unemployment resolution, rapid transition to the professional world, career development, even career development, I have not heard anything today about the fact that apprentices and students who will be trained can also continue to study and obtain higher or higher education. So it's also here in the marriage, I'll say, for young people taken care of. However, I have one thing not to worry about, but according to our experience, when we see that very many capable young people have gone from Slovenia to abroad, we have time to keep these young people, which we will now train, even with us, and not then to raise again the best people to go to Austria, Germany or anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u45	Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mrs Marija Bacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you. Initially, I would just say that this law was somehow presented in at least those drafts in our parliamentary group, and everyone would like to commend the Ministry for coming to the opposition parliamentary groups to present the matter, because we almost fail to experience this from other ministries. But what was presented at the time was presented that a pilot project would be carried out. This matter is essentially a pilot project. And I must say that this law is written just to carry out a certain pilot project, but it is not for this matter to be resolved systematically in Slovenia. It's about a period of time when these things will be introduced and then evaluated. This law is definitely not, at least in my opinion, as I read it, written for vocational and professional education. If only students, i.e. students during education, in vocational and professional education, should be amended by the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, or that would be sufficient, rather than introducing a new law. Because when it comes to students now, the Ministry says that they are students, that we talk only about students and not employees as such. If we look at 5:00. Article, we also have inside, as you yourself have already said, that this law also allows apprenticeship to unemployed persons, that is, older persons, to be overqualified. At the time, I think the topic of this conversation was how to include these older ones or not. And now that you're reading this article forward, basically this law is written directly for you. Because you are saying that the apprentice can be the person who is educated in secondary and vocational education – I believe that they are students – and also unemployed or employed persons who want secondary vocational education and so on. And then in point 3, you write that those who are educated in vocational education are subject to the Act on Vocational and Professional Education, and all others are subject to this law. So this law is written not for students or for those who are already educated within the system, but for those who enter the system. Well, then, the question may be, whether it's the unemployed older people, or whether it's the moment they enter the apprenticeship system, the status of the student. [[…]] Because you keep saying it's about students. And I believe that this law is written in order not to carry out a pilot project on this, i.e. in four professions that are also deficient and that students will not be included here, but it will be overqualifications. So it is an experiment and it is pointless to create a picture in Slovenia, if this law will save the dual system or apprenticeship and that we will get more young, professionally educated through this law. That's not true. This law, tell the truth, it's an experiment, it's a pilot project, and when this pilot project is completed, an evaluation will be made, and then it will actually be seen whether this apprenticeship in these four professions can be transferred to everyone else. And once again, this law will not save the dual system, it will not save the students, it will be piloted. You're going to have 200 people in this system, but it's not said they're going to be students, but they can be older unemployed people. Now we come up with one thing. All right, they're gonna get a prize, a cash prize, but it won't count in the social system for what would go into the quota, because of the kid's allowances and so on. This will trigger one issue, namely inequality in social benefits. If an unemployed person goes through the Employment Training Office for three months, he also gets a reward and is counted as a quota and can lose social assistance. In that case, no. In that case, no. And here there may be a question, I don't know how the Ministry of Labour sees it, if that's what happened, then you're making a difference. Someone goes to work for three months, gets a prize that's about 400 euros, which can cause him to lose his social assistance because he's going over the quota, but if he goes into the apprenticeship, he won't. By allowing this apprenticeship to cease at any time, at any time, and not there, it can terminate its job training, but it has to return what it is. Here you make a difference in remuneration, rewards or what is counted as quota and what is not. The following thing which I definitely do not like is in Article 28: “The apprentice may, at any time during the duration of the apprenticeship contract without justification, cancel the apprenticeship contract.” The following point is made in the same article: “The termination of the apprenticeship contract must be written.” I say to the employer: "The employer must give written reasons for his decision." But the employer has to tell me why he's gonna fire him, and the apprentice can say, "I can't get up tomorrow morning," and he says, "I'm not going to work anymore." There's no security guard, even though you're saying they're some kind of security guard, or I don't know who said they're gone. The apprentice can make it up at any time. When he realizes that social assistance is greater or that there are other things to be paid better, even work in black, if you want, he will say, thank you very much and goodbye. That's not right. I mean, yeah, you have to build on this responsibility of people to realize that they're in the system, to learn this and so on, but he can walk for a couple of months, learn what he wants, and then he says, I don't need it anymore. However, the employer is forced to write here exactly why and how and explain it in writing. So these things, I think it's time to get fixed. At the same time, if you're saying that it's a deficit profession, I hope, I believe that you already have companies that will do these things, but these are companies with deficit jobs, as you said. Are these good-for-nothing companies that will be able to afford these prizes to the apprentices? How is it that after this final apprenticeship, do these employers with whom you are agreed to train also have an agreement to somehow hire them? Because eventually, if they're being introduced, it would be good to hire them. Or how are these things resolved? Since 200 people, there are 200 people in this pilot project, it can turn out more later, but if the apprentice does not see that at the end of this process there is a possibility of employment, the question of whether they will decide on these matters. Because then it's the same as going to work, so he's got practice and that's it. However, because of the deficit professions, I am concerned that these companies are not just as stable so that these things can work. The second is mentoring. Already in the dual system, which had fallen infamously in 2016, if we can say so, it was a problem of mentoring. People didn't know what it was like to be a mentor. They had to do some pedagogical exams. Education of mentors must also be of quality. And because I'm running out of time, I apologize, control over this apprenticeship, you wrote down there who's gonna be on this committee. Yes, because we have the CPI, we have the Education Institute, why we need another new commission to oversee this apprenticeship. For the new costs, please. Give this CPI a wake-up call, the Education Institute wakes up, and we don't need any additional commission, and this apprenticeship, this pilot project, is going to be able to evaluate nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u47	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Vojka Šergan. Here you go, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Hello, everyone, including the secretary of state, a nice greeting, and a coworker! I'm going to start this debate a little differently, which I think is good or I'm going to say, I'm also glad that we started saving youth unemployment in such a way that the Ministry of Education has prepared this law. And this apprenticeship, I believe, will help young people to be given the opportunity of such education in a different way, which was once greatly appreciated, if you remember, at least older ones, to carry out apprenticeship education in the previous country. With this law, as I said, we will direct young people into professions that are deficient, and we will also influence that young people will not be so mass-oriented in social studies, where, as we know, when they finish this education, not all have opportunities to work, because this education is simply foreshadowed and, of course, young people cannot get a job and there are big problems here. The proposal for this apprenticeship law has been coordinated by the Ministry with all stakeholders and social partners, and the Minister has also said here today that all stakeholders are united in carrying out apprenticeships under this law. Some of you spoke differently today, but I think what the minister said here actually happened. I believe that the implementation of the training of young people in the dual system, which is being upgraded by this law, will be even more closely linked to the economy. In the longer term, companies will also be able to recruit more effectively with apprentices. I would also like to point out that the law on apprenticeship pursues some important objectives. One of the important things is that we get young people into the labour market as soon as possible, thereby reducing the unemployment of these young people and their social exclusion, as I have said before. The law brings some important solutions, at least a few of them, and the apprentice has to meet all the conditions under the law in order to be included in the apprenticeship. The apprentice is awarded a prize, but it will not affect social transfers and other family incomes, so the apprentice will be able to continue to receive a state grant, receive child allowances, and not all these incomes will affect or threaten the existence of a family. The apprentice will have the status of a student who devotes at least 50% of his time to education in the workplace, i.e. in the economy. After completion of the apprenticeship period, it is not compulsory. Some see the problem here, but it is a student, as we have heard today, and of course this job is not compulsory by the company that offers this practical training of this student. Furthermore, it is also important that unemployed persons can be included in the apprenticeship form. The law pursues the goal of lifelong education. Also, by gradually introducing apprenticeships, first, as we have heard, 200 apprentices per generation, later the number will increase in the context of the needs of the economy and crafts, or in the context of the findings of the success of this mode of education. Some suggested that the apprentice should be employed, but this proposal did not receive sufficient support already in the drafting phase of the law. I wanted to mention this in view of the fact that some of the discussions were in this direction. With apprenticeship and practical training, job opportunities for young people and related education and training are being created. The European Commission also supports this mode of education, as it sees a key element of the strategy to combat youth unemployment. I also compared or read these comparative models carried out in the field of apprenticeship by the neighbouring Member States of the European Union and would focus on Austria, which exercises apprenticeships through a dual system that combines practical training in a real working environment and school education. 40% of young people are included in this mode of education in the neighbouring country of Austria. That's not a small number. The apprentices are trained in trade, trade, services, industry and tourism. We also have data on the implementation of apprenticeships in some other countries of the European Union, but as I said, I have focused on or on leaving colleagues some time to discuss only Austria. I believe that some of the provisions of this Austrian law should also be included in this law, because I think that some things are very well solved and perhaps with some novelty in later times, if we find that this model is appropriate, we will also include these changes. To conclude, for more effective apprentice education, it is necessary to determine how apprenticeship can be carried out by practically training and then by schooling. This is what I wanted to say that I think it is good that, this is also an Austrian symma, that the apprentice should be educated for a certain period of time at work and then for a certain time at school so that he could devote himself to this school education and prepare himself better for the exams. I may not be right, but I think it would be more appropriate and more effective. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u49	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get Mrs. Vojka Shergan and Mr. Zvonko Lah ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello, Secretary of State, with your coworkers and your colleagues! Today we are talking about a government proposal for a law on apprenticeship, which, as I have heard from the debates, we have all been looking forward to and we all welcome it. So in the new school year, the apprenticeship form for four professions is expected to begin, namely metal designer, tool maker, stoner, miller and gastronomy-hotelir. I am sure that the Ministry of Education has certainly concluded that these are the most deficient professions and have chosen those who will be educated in five educational institutions. In the past, as we have already heard, we have already had a dual system in our country, this is called vocational education, but it has failed. Why? There were actually a number of reasons. The law is ready, and this form of schooling will take place in practice, and it is important to be careful that apprenticeship does not experience a similar fate as it has in the past. It is certainly a learning path that combines vocational education and training that is desirable to gain work experience, as employers will train apprentices for practical work. Therefore, it is necessary to establish well and precisely all the conditions for apprenticeship to be successful. For this reason, as Mrs State Secretary has explained to us, the first school year will be an experimental one. It's going to be controlled, it's going to evaluate eventually. And if this form works well, other programmes will gradually be introduced, such as glassmakers and papermakers, if we read it, it is of great interest on the part of employers. We are all aware that there is a lack of professionally educated labour in our country and, of course, it is crucial for us to introduce this apprenticeship system. If you remember, in the past, students have mainly enrolled in secondary schools, economics and especially in high school, and I think that young people have now matured so much that they see that there is great unemployment in this area and that there is a shortage of these labour in the area of crafts. I could tell you from Prekmurje's experience, although we have a secondary vocational and technical school that educates various programmes, and I tell you that our Austria picks up almost everything because they appreciate this practical training there. So students who will become practically trained will be able to enter the labour market immediately, and if they train with tradesmen and employers find that they are good to be taken, they will also be happy to hire them. As I was listening to when they were now before the informative days, there was a survey of young elementary school students where they would sign up. I'm telling you, there wasn't a single person who said he was going to go to high school, everyone wanted to go to vocational school, and basically they said they wanted to go to the bakery, the chef, the butcher, and those professions. I believe that this has also been done by scholarships for the deficit professions, because we know what this means for our families, who are more or less faced with money problems. When this apprenticeship comes to life, we still have a chance to win the prize. It is true that this prize will not be the same, but it will be 200 for the first year, then 300 and at the end of 400 euros. If we just look at it, I think this apprenticeship system will certainly work. For this reason, I am convinced that employment will be increased and that even during schooling it will somehow be covered. Here I would touch the mentor who will educate these professions, who will somehow oversee the apprentices, to guide them through the work process, but it is necessary to consider teaching-andragog education. I am a teacher myself, and I know that pedagogical-andragog education is important, but here I do not think it makes sense, because a good master also has a relationship with that apprentice, because it is his goal to train him, to practically train him regardless of his teaching-andragog education or just the right approach and attitude to this apprentice or to this young person who wants to educate him. It is true that it cannot be a slave’s order and that it must not be ignorant of the exploitation, but it must be carefully considered. So now, in secondary vocational education, students have 16 weeks of practical training in the final year. I believe that now that we have come to 50%, that this is very good and that they will learn more. It is my concern, however, only if this form of education persists after 2021, when the funding from European funds expires. I certainly want you to. I certainly support the bill and hope that it will see the light of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u51	Mrs Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Ivan Škodnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Hello, Madam Secretary with a co-worker, other present, colleagues and colleagues! Today's debate on the Law on apprenticeship seems extremely constructive and fruitful, and I think it is right that there is some exchange of views on certain definitions that are in law. I very much welcome this apprenticeship form of education, which in fact aims to bring education closer to employers on the one hand and on the other hand to those who are educated to enter the labour market afterwards. Perhaps I welcome this especially because I have some practical experience, life, because my father, for example, was educated as an apprentice there after 1950, and I know the apprenticeship system when my husband was educated there around 70, and at that time it was exactly the way that 50% of education was in the company, and it was extremely successful. There was a lot of knowledge at the time. From those times, as mentioned earlier, many of the people of our generation who still have this knowledge and share it. Then I worked in a family company where we educated two apprentices, but these experiences were such that it was more about how much the apprentice had an interest to educate himself in the company because there was no more practice. That is why I very much welcome this and I want the law to go this way as it has been exposed. However, I would like to reply to my colleague, Godec, who said that the termination of the apprenticeship contract does not have any guardians, and I would like to point out to Article 30, second paragraph, that if the apprentice cancels the apprentice's apprenticeship contract, the competent chamber will allow him to conclude a new apprenticeship contract with another employer no more than twice within 15 days of his resignation. So the fuse is in the marriage. Of course, the most important thing is that you have the ability of an employer and an apprentice to demonstrate a high-quality personal relationship. This is more important, but of course also the interest of the apprentice to be educated in the direction he has decided. Here I am touching on mentoring, because it has somehow been expressed today that this mentoring in family companies where masters are at home does not need pedagogical-andragog education. I do not agree here, because those in practice, but I can tell you this from the family entrepreneurship, which has practice and can show how a product is made, but sometimes it does not have these skills, psychological, andragogical, how to teach someone this knowledge. This aspect of the training provided by the law, which is already being called by the Chambers, is already the publication of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Zagorje to tell you in the meantime, and I think it is extremely positive that these masters are getting some knowledge there or hearing how they should approach their apprentices. That's never too much to hear. I think that in our society we need to start building these personal relationships, this approach to each other, this positive attitude, then this is also the success of this relationship that you can't write into the law, but it's very important for building competences then in the career of this apprentice who can then be educated into college. Finally, he can even take over such a company or take over a new building. In short, that's what I'd like to mention. I would point out once again that this should remain and that this is of paramount importance. Then she would also touch the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, because it was said that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry was too busy. In view of the fact that I used to work at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, I would, on this occasion, point out that it is its role or that it has a public authority in the field of vocational and professional education. It's not a new role for her. This role will only be upgraded and implemented by the Chamber in this area. They shall take care of the training of apprentices in the activities for which they are competent: the preparation and publication of the apprenticeship invitation, the transmission of data to schools for the purpose of carrying out apprenticeships, cooperation with schools and employers in the preparation of the apprenticeship implementation plan, participation in the preparation of catalogues for practical training and not to list. However, there is something else you need to understand that the funds for the tasks of the Chamber are provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the Chamber has qualified people in this area and therefore receives funds. I don't know why I don't think a chamber with long-term experience would be able to say that for 50 years or more, I don't know why it wouldn't play that role at this point. I am sure that it will play well and that this cooperation, because it brings together mainly micro and small businesses – can play this role decisively. Since I still have a little more time, I'm not going to smoke my buddy all the time. In short, then I would just point out the burden sharing between employers and between the Ministry. It's only the apprenticeship award that the employer will somehow pay. Anything else, this means mentoring training, funds to finance the tasks of the competent chambers, funds to pay insurance costs for pension and disability insurance and health insurance, this in particular covers the Ministry, all the costs of insurance of apprentices for disability and death resulting from damage to work on the basis of STIZ and for injuries at work and occupational diseases in accordance with the health insurance policy. That's how much you'd have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u53	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. I also welcome this approach to return to apprenticeship and would also like to see the number of students in vocational training as in the neighbouring country of Austria, where there are about 40 per cent of all pupils. There is an experiment with us, but these apprenticeship awards are significantly lower than in neighbouring Austria. I think for the third year there is a thousand 600 euros, we have one-quarter of this foreseen. But despite that, the standard is much lower. However, we need to look at the needs, the current situation. Was the Chamber of Commerce, as it is, now a true interlocutor in the making up of this law? We have already heard here today that it is necessary to take more account of individual sections, because this vocational education is so different – from some field work, the building chiropractor to the catering works, and the furnaces of tools, screwdrivers and so on – that we should and hopefully return slowly back to those times. [[…]] When the colleague spoke earlier, I too was educated in those days, in the 1970s, when we had one full-time working day in high school for a week, all four years. But it was high school, not vocational education. However, vocational education was half a year with the employer and half a year in school. What is the interest in the state of the country now, but it is very questionable. When we face data, say Revoz Novo mesto now needs 300 new workers and two thirds of them fall on a medical examination. What is our social status? They don't get any workers. And provided for four years, say, for a new car. However, there is a positive trend when more young people feel that they want to get trained and get to work as soon as possible. This needs to be used, but other conditions need to be adapted, such as the business environment and the rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u55	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, representatives of the Ministry of Education, colleagues and fellow Members! Of course, today I have listened to this debate all the time, because it is close to me and I know it, and the comments I have heard, much has actually been said that there is so much obstacle that there is no unity, that even the Chamber of Commerce does not support these things and so on. But as far as I know these things, even when I was in contact with representatives, Mr Meh and I discussed this several times – there are comments, certainly. We must be aware, however, that today is only the first reading and that then, in committee discussions, things will be decided that there will probably be some amendments that will be put in place if they do. But in principle, things are so ready that the matter can start and I hope that the law will be passed so that we can start this school year. We must be aware, however, that this is a pilot model, a project that will allow for more. Even after the matter has gone through, when the generation has passed through, when the analysis is done, everything that is good and bad will be determined and will, of course, have to be corrected. Today I also listened very much to colleagues from New Slovenia, from the SDS, who had some comments very much in place; however, of course there were also comments from others when nothing was actually valid as if everything would be exploited. I got one thought back when I remembered that targeted education, and I got the feeling that one of them wanted to be the best model like this and bring him back. In short, the fact is that economic connections are being sought and the economy has been pointing to these needs all the time. There has been a lot of work done here, and I think that what has been said today, all these actors from both chambers – crafts, economics – schools, ministries and even apprentices themselves, will have to achieve what we are talking about and what things, as I said, are covered by the law. However, it will have to play an important role, which can now be a little less, the CPI – the Centre of the Republic of Slovenia for Vocational Education. Why am I mentioning him? Because he was always involved in all the renovations, he worked together to connect all the schools and then all the schools contributed something, but the teachers know something. I hope that we do not take too much account now of those schools that have a pilot model. I hope that comments will come from all teachers from all over Slovenia, the CPI has a frame of reference for this, and I hope that these things will also be settled. The fact is that there will also have to be some catalogues of practical learning or training that will now be transferred to the economy, employers, and some things will have to be included and corrected. Today I would have somehow more involved myself in the beauty of these professions. I would not talk about the weaknesses of this law when so much has been said, and where the traps are, or where the traps are, that this law will not come to life, but rather that it covers occupations that have sometimes been slightly suppressed, because society has also been so inclined that they were less valuable professions. I'm still saying that these professions are some important value, I'm still saying that the work of a noble man and to work I've never had a bad feeling, but, always good. I remember, like, things when I was five, six years old, and my dad took some wood to the mess hall when he ordered the windows, and then after we went about a month after that, I went with him, and then they put those windows on the wagon, and my dad was looking for me, and he didn't find me anywhere. Then he found me at a mess when he was making up windows — I still remember well. At the time, I was a little grumpy, but that bowler was somehow hiding or protecting me, and he told my father, he was there all the time, all the time, just standing there and just watching what I was doing. And he said, when he finishes primary school, bring him here, he seems interested, maybe he'll become a mess. But I didn't go to that workshop, somewhere else, but it's true that later I was also a mess apprentice. And these things, I have to tell you, I know very well. I know some things are like that, but when I was an apprentice, it was a lot different. The working conditions were significantly worse. But when I compared myself to those who had begun 10 years before me who might have been the ones who taught me, they had even more difficult conditions. Do you know what they were saying? During the morning, they were on shift, at home, at work, at a job where they were studying, and at noon they went to school two or three times. But they've become some experts, they've acquired some knowledge that maybe there aren't many. Many times I remember Plečnik, Plečnik was a copper apprentice. I also presented it to students at school on informative days or on other occasions, as he began at the church, he ended up as an architect and has important products, buildings in Slovenia and also in Europe, and I especially like to see those wooden ceilings from the macese across many churches, including Slovenia. In short, he was a master who was able to change these things, to imitate them, and therefore I say that apprentices are those professions or apprenticeships, of course I remembered the carpenter, including others who attract individuals and if someone wants to learn to work, he will certainly learn to work. Here I might return to my colleague Tonin, who is not here now, but he listened to me very clearly when he said, "Learn that you won't have to work." That's what parents used to say. I remember that at school when my parents came to school or something, and they said he'd go to school so he wouldn't have to work. Very similar. But today, of course, this has changed significantly, and today we don't really talk like that anymore, but he will go to school so that he can work. And we all realize more or less that we're going to have to work. He who can do something works with joy, and in the final stage he also earns and will be able to do more, in fact he will be able to earn more. I really enjoy coming to these auctions of logs, in Slovenc Gradec yesterday was 11 years ago, when the timber owners of those logs actually brought them in, they exhibit them there. I took the right time this morning when there were no people, that somehow I looked at those most beautiful logs and found out what I could do with some of the logs. And I note that these are professions. We will have to invest in them, the beginning or the first step in this education is, say, now apprenticeship, because we often wonder what we will be able to do about it. [[…]] And knowledge is the foundation of everything. If we don't have any knowledge of anything, we're talking about businesses, and I don't know what we're going to do if we don't have any knowledge, we're not going to do anything. I'm so glad these things are opening up and moving on. As for apprenticeship, which was between 1996 and 2000, I accompanied it myself, and there were also many things when in schools and, of course, entrepreneurs wondered what it was. At the time I was sort of an intermediary, I had this path between school and employers, and I noticed many times that there was a problem and that the economy that was then possible in a slightly better condition than today, if we remember 2006, was a little different, but we have to aspire to what we're going to be in 10, 20, 30 years. [[…]] Look, the Germans have been building a system of apprenticeships for 50 years, maybe even more, but they've finished it most in Europe, and they can also compare themselves to the economy in Europe. I don't think there's any individual, no country that could compete with Germany. Of course, they also have good systems in Austria and Switzerland, and in Austria, I know very well because we worked together. In 2001 we had a three-week exchange of apprentices with Austrians at the same time; in Slovenj Gradc there were 10 apprentices and our students were in Austria. Finally, when we actually made a public presentation, we were all pleased. I will not forget this when the parents of the learners from Austria came to the presentation and were very happy, and after some tears on my parents' faces I noticed that they were not sorry and that they found that even in Slovenia there was a lot of things to be done. There is a lot of good in Slovenia, and we need to connect these things, and we often fail to do so. Even today, in this debate, I have seen that some people are trying very hard to make certain things, once they are so oriented, good for the economy, for the country to challenge them so that these things do not come to life. Of course there will be problems! When did they not? Every old man has a problem, every thing has to be faced. And this pilot model will make this possible, because a special commission was formed before the time that it found out why all these systems that were in Slovenia were never finally brought to life. That's what they figured out, what this system is going to show now that they've actually turned and we're going to see in time. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u57	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The applicant's introductory explanation states in one part that comparative analyses of vocational and vocational education systems in 25 European countries indicate a trend towards strengthening the integration of vocational and vocational education with the labour market. In this light, I would just like to say briefly that in Slovenia we really need to stop or break with the trend of deregulation of professions. This is one issue where we are actually reducing the possibility of appropriate training also through apprenticeship. I think that it would be very serious to analyse student work, whether it is not already the form that is flowing, but only to give it the status of apprenticeship work and thus get a source of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u59	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. You want a word? I'm guessing yes. Madam Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much. First of all, honourable Members and Members, I would like to thank you for all the discussions we have had regarding apprenticeship. I assure you that all the debates we have had in this House so far have been thoroughly debated and misinterpreted at the time of the drafting of the law. But it is true that not all the solutions you have warned us about are in marriage. The bill contains only those solutions for which we and the stakeholders have reached the minimum consensus that the law has even come to life. Believe me, in the process of drafting this law, I have repeatedly despaired that we will be able to prepare it at all because the interests, views on what apprenticeship is are so different; the interests of those key stakeholders who have to participate in this process. Thus, these incentives that we have received from you have certainly affected the fact that we have actually drawn up a proposal for a law. I assure you that we did not work with figs in our pocket, that we wanted to prepare a good law, as far as I have already said, in these complex circumstances, it was possible to prepare that we wanted to prepare a law where we would give the apprentice sufficient general education and, above all, enough excellent knowledge in the practical field, so that he could demonstrate his excellence then on the labour market, that we never wanted to establish new forms of penance, derivatives suppressed and so on, as was said in the debate. That is why, in cooperation with the drafting of the law, we invited trade unions, which was the source of the dispute later, and in particular, we wanted to provide, with this law, in particular, a basic framework, a clear basis for the joint participation of all the stakeholders needed. How concretely they will cooperate and what concrete implementation plans will be like and what concrete implementation plans will be like and what concrete implementation curricula will be, of course, depend on the participation of all stakeholders. That this hard cooperation proves not only the preparation of the law, but also the preparation of these implementing curricula, but that everyone is quite convinced that this new form needs to be introduced, I am sure that this effort will ultimately pay off. You also asked me how to proceed after 2021, if we had any idea how. We have made it very clear to employers which incentives we have also provided through European funds, of course, by 2021. The economists themselves said the following at a time when we were preparing the law – and this is also what I want to tell you –: they said that times have obviously changed since 2006. Exactly what was at the beginning, what the Member of Parliament initially stressed that times have changed. It's not about who cut off and who put in shape, but times have changed. The economy needs such a form of apprenticeship, and the economists themselves have said: Set the conditions, prepare the first step, and then we think we will be able to walk with larger and bolder steps. So thank you all for the support that has been given today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Vice President. Not all of us have been given the words we wanted because we are running out of time, but I will not discuss substantively, I would just like to thank and commend the Ministry of Education because I know how much effort it has made in preparing this carefully planned and harmonised law. Although there are now some negative views, some interested associations have changed them, I will say, like every day underpants. However, regardless, I know how long it took for you to get to this product that is in front of us today and in this debate that was, because I even listened to it, extremely good. Some shortcomings were also exposed. Of course, no law is ideal, but it is only the first reading, and I believe that it will take some time for you to listen to certain concerns at the Ministry, because this is where the final act begins before this law sees the light of the world and I believe it will serve especially well for those to whom it is intended; and this is for young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u63	This also concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decision. If the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, 17. 2. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the University of Primorska. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž God. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a motion for a decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorska. This is a final act, or the last one, which was initiated by an initiative launched by the Scientific Council from the University of Primorska University Scientific Research Centre at the end of 2015 at the University of Primorska Senate, namely, that it wishes, in accordance with the statute or internal acts of the University and under the procedure envisaged there, to withdraw or terminate its membership at the University of Primorska for reasons which were subsequently further elaborated in the process, and according to the procedure prescribed in the internal acts of the University. Following the decision of the Management Board of the University of Primorsk, which confirmed this intention or agreed with it in early May 2016 and initiated all necessary procedures for the completion or designation of one of the members of the University of Primorsk. The process was concluded in December or late November 2016, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established a new public research institution, the Koper Research and Research Centre, which is in accordance with the agreement or in accordance with the procedure of 1. 1. 2017 has taken over or transferred activities to them, together with the staff, and in accordance with the agreement, all other procedures have been carried out. Today's latest action actually means aligning the founding act of the University of Primorsk with the actual state. In short, it is the removal of the University of Primorska Scientific Research Centre as members, as internal organisational units of the University of Primorska, and thus, in particular, the harmonisation of the situation on the ground or the situation in practice with the founding act adopted by the National Assembly. In fact, it is, as it were said, the conclusion of the process that we have witnessed and which has expired in the last year and is also ending with this last act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u65	The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the board! At its 25th meeting, on 2 February 2017, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth addressed the Proposal for a Decree amending the Decision establishing the University of Primorska, submitted by the Government for its consideration and adoption. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal for a decree in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Article 3. Their representative presented the written opinion and considered that their comments had been taken into account in the proposed amendment of the coalition groups and that the error in the title of the decision would be corrected in the final edition. The amendment to Article 3 was tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD members and, following the opening presentation by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, in which he said that the amendments to the decision abolish the Scientific and Research Centre as a member of the University of Primorska followed a brief discussion, in which some of the concerns were raised at the university itself and, following the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the draft decree together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary draft resolution incorporating the amendment is prepared under Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u67	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. We have two views, Mr Janko Weber, as the first European Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you again for saying this time, I speak on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats and a nice greeting to all. The proposal for the amendment of the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk concludes for a somewhat longer period of time, we can say, a saga on the elimination of its Scientific Research Centre. In the parliamentary group, we hope that today's formal explanation will contribute to a final settlement, we could say, a dispute and will contribute to creating a better climate for both employees and, of course, students who are certainly in the first place when we discuss how the scientific research court or the university itself works. Of course, we stress here that, as a legislator, we cannot interfere with the relationship between individual members of universities or public research institutions. It is our duty to ensure that the regulation tries the regulatory framework within which these institutions operate. The parliamentary group notes that the legal bases are lagging behind the challenges that are known in the field of the work of scientific research institutions and, last but not least, the warnings addressed by the professional public in relation to the Higher Education Act and the Law on Research and Development Activities, which were somehow all over-examined during this period. Here we would particularly like to highlight the fact that, however, there is also the impression that these are unclear or uncleared relations at the legislative level and, above all, at the financial level, somehow the main cause of the problems of the Slovenian scientific and research area and one such case has somehow escalated right in Primorsk. However, it is important to note that we need the Research and Development Act, that we also need the Higher Education Act, in which public service, its scope, way of carrying out and above all funding is to be defined. Until we see this in this legislation and in the field of higher education and research and science, we will face problems, and these will in practice only a few years from now, when we find that underinvestment in research and development and in the creation of the necessary personnel will not, in fact, come into a situation where neither the economy nor science will actually compete with all world trends. So, as soon as possible, it really suits the public service, its scope and, above all, its funding. Without that, we will probably have another case that we will consider in the National Assembly in such a way as, say, a decree establishing the University of Primorsk, which we will support today or the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This amendment to the decision under consideration and before us today regulates the status definition of the University of Primorsk, since the Research Centre is no longer a member of the University of Primorsk. At the founding of the University of Primorsk, the Research Centre became the core of its research activities. We believe that the decision to establish the University of Primorsk was necessary and legal and important not only for the local environment, but also for the development of our entire higher education space. As a member of the University of Primorsk, the research centre has also had a significant impact on the strengthening of its functioning since its establishment. When adopting amendments and supplementing the relevant and all other acts of establishment of public higher education institutions, two principles must be taken into account in particular. Firstly, the members of the University have the rights and obligations laid down in the law, the act establishing the University and the statutes of the University. Secondly, the principle of autonomy, which in its legal dictatorship means that the university is an autonomous scientific and research, artistic and educational higher education institution with a special position. The principle of autonomy for universities and independent higher education institutions also ensures, inter alia, the self-regulation of the internal organisation and the operation of the statute in accordance with applicable legislation. The autonomy of the university can also be understood as the autonomy of employees to explore and teach independently, freely and without restrictions and pressures. This must be borne in mind when, as a legislative body, we complement and amend such founding acts and, in a specific case, we respect the decision of the research and scientific centre and the competent authorities of the university, which have taken a decision on the termination of membership of the Scientific and Research Centre within the University of Primorsk. At the same time, we expect that the newly established institution, the public research institution, will continue to carry out its mission in a way that will be able to connect with other research institutions at home and in the world, so that it can play an active role in research networks as a partner in national and international projects, and that it will promote new policies in the internationalisation of science and promote Slovenian scientific excellence. Despite the bitter taste that the dispersal process has been accompanied by a lot of tension and disagreement between the stakeholders involved, in a particular case we are also moving away from the trend around the world, that research institutes are joining universities and smaller higher education institutions are merging into larger ones. Nevertheless, in the SMC Group, we want and expect the disengagement and, as a result, the creation of a new research institution – the Coper Research Centre – to produce positive results and effects both for the locale and for the national and, of course, the international environment. Following this, we will vote in favour of this amendment to the decision on the establishment of the University of Primorsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The amendments to the amended design were not tabled. The decision on the motion for a decree will be held tomorrow, 17 February 2017, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a recommendation to establish effective legal protection in the event of the closure of a criminal appeal. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. The Committee on Justice, as a parent working body, proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee of Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Committee on Justice is at its 29th session. 1. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a recommendation to establish effective legal protection in the event of the dismissal of a criminal complaint submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 9. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A further explanation on behalf of the applicant was given by Mr Vinko Gorenak and said that they would like to draw attention to the shortcomings of the legislation in force, namely the provisions governing the powers of state prosecutors. Thus, the Public Prosecutor's Act does not provide for the possibility of bringing a legal action against the decision of the State Prosecutor in the event of the dismissal of a criminal charge. While there is a possibility of subsidiary prosecution, the injured person continues as the prosecutor, which they consider to be ineffective in practice. Finally, he stressed that, in order to fill the existing gaps in the existing legislation, a amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act had also been tabled together with the proposal for a recommendation. In this regard, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the proposed recommendation addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office is, to the extent that it cannot be regarded as a proposal for certain measures for the work of the Government and the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, as required by Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Minister of Justice has pointed out that the debate on this issue is meaningful and announced that the Government will soon submit its proposal for a new Law on Criminal Procedure, which will also be further regulated by the Institute of the Subsidiary Prosecutor and the Qualified Prosecutor. Chief Prosecutor Aleš Butala pointed out that, under the State Prosecutor's Act, there are already certain forms of supervision of the work of state prosecutors, such as the fact that the decision to dismiss the complaint does not have the status of conviction, since, in the light of the circumstances that have arisen, it is possible to re-intervent the prosecutor. In the debate, opposition Members drew attention to specific cases from the past when, due to the gap in legislation, there was no basis for sanctioning the inaction of state prosecutors, and made a proposal for a hybrid treatment of both proposals of the CAP novel and the forthcoming one planned by the Government. The Coalition Members proposed that the recommendation should not be considered appropriate for further consideration, since to this extent it is not substantively determined that, in accordance with Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure, it cannot be considered as a proposal for certain measures for the work of the Government and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee decided that the proposal for a recommendation for the establishment of effective legal protection in the event of the rejection of a criminal complaint was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Vinko Gorenak, to present his position on the proposal of the working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much. So here is another proposal from the SDS, which concerns, I will say globally, to regulate the situation in justice. Apparently, according to the position on the parent’s working body, the Government is aware of this, but it is not prepared to support this position. What's this all about? It is simply that in 2011 we introduced a provision that is not a couple in Europe into our marriage, so in the prosecutor's law, if I simplify it. At that time, Minister Zalar insisted that the position of prosecutors from the point of view of the decision be equal to that of judges. Which, of course, is not possible. The judicial branch of power is separate, as we know, from the independent branch of authority, and, according to many interpretations, the prosecutor's organisation does not necessarily have to be regarded as part of the judicial branch of authority, but can also be considered part of the executive branch of the authority. At least in this direction, one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court is speaking. Even when the Office of the Prosecutor was under the Ministry of the Interior in 2012, the Attorney-General of the State and the current prosecutor shouted at them how unconstitutional this is, but as a former constitutional judge, he was well aware of the time and the Constitutional Court had decided that there was nothing wrong with the Prosecutor's Office under the Ministry of the Interior. In this case, of course, we are talking about something else; we are talking about how it is with the decision-making of the prosecution organisations. In fact, when the prosecutor receives a file and decides not to pursue anything, there is no control over it. So if he says that it's not a crime or that he doesn't have enough element to prosecute, then the case is closed and the story is over. Of course, there was no such thing until 2011 and of course there is no such thing in justice. In the Court of Justice it is relatively clear that the Judges' decisions at first instance are being examined in a higher court, in the Supreme Court, in the Constitutional Court, if you wish, or even in the European Court of Human Rights. In short, any first-degree error can be corrected anywhere at these levels that I've counted. This is not the case in the prosecution's organisation; the prosecution's organisation is independent and therefore independent of the 2011 law in its decisions. If you recall the dismissal or criminal charges or the withdrawal of the charges in Murski Sobota Popov. Who can fix this? No one can fix this anymore, because the prosecutor's decision is no more. By 2011, we had a very different situation and it is also right that it was different. This is because either a group of prosecutors or a co-signatories have checked the prosecutor’s decision in the first instance. It means that if a prosecutor made a decision to, say, not prosecute something, it meant that he had to justify it and, of course, give it to his boss. It wasn't until the boss said it was okay that this thing could have been over. Of course not. Today, these options are no longer available. As a rule, prosecutors or groups within the prosecutor's organisation are certainly more experienced and older prosecutors, while those beginnings at the age of thirty who are still entering the prosecution's organisation have, of course, matters of judgment, i.e. decisions in the prosecution's judgment, and what might happen to the prosecutor's mistake. And, of course, no one can make that decision today. I emphasize, no one else. Before that, of course, the situation was different. In our request, we point out the problem of this situation, we also recommend that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia address this problem and that the situation be resolved, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not normally do so, we have also introduced a law concerning this area – the Criminal Procedure Act, which is another item in the agenda, I think at the next meeting. In short, we draw attention to the fundamental problem, this is the problem of the prosecutor's decisions and the fact that there is actually no one left to look into the case with the prosecutors. Let me give you some more information. See, the dropped criminal charges in 2010 – 14 thousand and something, and in 2015 already 18 thousand 423. In short, a lot of complaints have been dropped. Of course, the reasons can be different. We also need to know this, but there are increasingly rejected criminal charges and there is an increasing impression that the prosecutor, when there is a problem, when he does not know how and what, says that he simply does not have enough elements to prosecute, and that the matter ends, or here and there, he also returns it to the police for further examination. That's not acceptable. We propose that the prosecution should sign such a decision if the prosecutor does not decide to prosecute for minor offences, and that the chief of the prosecutor's organization should sign the decision when it comes to larger crimes, and that a group of three prosecutors should verify and assess whether the grounds for rejection are indeed true or not. These are our suggestions. I am sorry that the proposal for a recommendation to the Government has not received support, nor on the working body, because, as we call it, the Minister seems to be preparing appropriate solutions. I am afraid that he will prepare this by the end of his term of office and that we will not correct this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Darko Staret, to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr President, for your word, a nice greeting to all Members, Members and others present in the Chamber! In December 2016, the first-signed Mr Tank's Group proposed a recommendation to this Assembly to strengthen the legal protection of the injured in cases where the State Prosecutor dismisses the criminal complaint. Applicants assess that the existing remedy represented by the subsidiary prosecution is not sufficient and therefore propose to the Government to take action. The recommendation was, in principle, without concrete content, and therefore a more specific definition could not be given to this recommendation, but the Government, in its opinion, expressed its principled agreement on the purpose and purpose of this recommendation and, at the same time, pointed out that in August 2016, the Ministry of Justice, which was almost six months before this recommendation and the draft law, which the honourable Member had also mentioned in his introductory address, published and put into public debate; that is, in August 2016. At the moment, professional and cross-cutting coordination has already been completed and the proposal for a law is before the government's hearing. The content of these provisions, which regulates and strengthens the legal protection of injured persons in cases where a criminal action is dismissed, is very detailed, comprehensive and consistent in this proposed law. Furthermore, when we consider the proposal of the parliamentary group mentioned by Dr Gorenak, we can see that there is essentially a copy-paste article of this law, which is in public debate, which speaks of the so-called qualified informant and provides enhanced legal protection for the injured in these cases. For this reason, because the law, which is comprehensive and practically also fully implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, is, of course, comprehensively regulated in many articles and is before the government's consideration, it is pointless to support such a recommendation which does not actually have content, but can be concluded indirectly from the proposed law which will be considered at the next meeting to be essentially a copy of only a fraction of this solution from the new law of the CAP-N, which was drawn up by the Ministry of Justice and, as it is said, before the decision of the Government. For this reason, the Government does not support this recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! We note that the applicant for the recommendation under consideration considers that the legislation in force governing the State Prosecutor's Office does not contain a provision allowing for a test of the decision of the State Prosecutor to reject a criminal complaint. The material also describes some rebuttal cases and presents statistics of dismissed complaints against full-year offenders for all state prosecutors together for the period 2010 to 2015, and in particular exposes the part relating to dropped charges in cases where there was insufficient evidence to substantiate the suspicion that the suspect had committed a crime. In its recommendation, which was also addressed by the Committee, it was clear when it was considered that the Government had already put into the procedure of the Criminal Procedure Act and that this problem of non-response to rejected criminal charges was contained in this amendment of the law, and we therefore assess that the recommendation is unnecessary at this point and, of course, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u80	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In Novi Slovenija we have long observed in our views that our justice in the broader sense of the word is not capable of self-reflection. It is therefore not capable of effective self-control and changes are needed in this area. At a low level of political culture in our country, this means that public officials in the highest public functions are not responsible for their work, not subjectively, not objectively, not criminally and not materially. We do not know the derogation of public officials due to objective responsibility at all. They are not responsible for the mistakes and even for the illegal work found. There are also no mechanisms in law to prescribe the automatic consequences of such behaviour. This fact, namely the lack of accountability, is, in our view, the cause of the situation in our society. In this light, we are also considering today the proposal for a recommendation to establish effective legal protection in the event of a criminal charge being dropped. From 2011 onwards, the Public Prosecutor's Act no longer permits testing of the decision of the State Prosecutor rejecting the criminal charge. It is said that despite the basic duty of the State prosecutor to initiate prosecution, the injured person as an applicant of the complaint remains without an effective remedy, as we know that the subsidiary prosecution, which remains the only available to the injured person after the dismissal, is not always an effective remedy. Without a doubt, the applicant should have the right, in this case, to be informed by the state prosecutor, who for any reason has decided to dismiss the complaint, before he is rejected. And then the injured person must be able to clearly define the reasons for the prosecution's decision. If this is not the case, we can see in a number of cases a superficial assessment of individual irregularities in the process or even intentional delay that leads to an obsolescence. Since the majority of criminal charges have been dismissed for other reasons, i.e. not because of the delay, the withdrawal of the complaint or because of the low importance, the Prosecutor should carefully consider whether there is indeed sufficient evidence to substantiate the suspicion that the offence pursued under official duty has been committed. It is entirely human that someone who realizes that his decision will not be checked by anyone that there will be no judgment on it will be much easier to make a decision that may be at the expense of the applicants of the complaint. If he had known in advance that in any event his decision would be subject to judicial judgment and that the injured person would be able to pronounce it, in many cases the prosecutor would have begun prosecution. Let us once again stress the impact on public confidence, professional and laziness, in justice. We cannot pass the criticism of the too slow part of the specialised state prosecutor's office, which has promised that procedures on banking crime will be completed as soon as possible in the light of the competence of the state prosecutor's office, with a view to the submission of requests for investigations or direct indictments. Now we hear more than once that banking crime cases will await the final epilogue after ten or fifteen years. Therefore, we can reasonably conclude that most of the cases will be closed by halting the procedure due to depreciation. We are also critical of the implementation of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office in the area of the confiscation of property of illegal origin. The law is practically not implemented and no one takes responsibility for non-execution, although it is clear which state prosecutors are assigned or appointed to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, to whom a case is assigned, and not least who runs the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. Where are their responsibilities? And why are we the only ones facing the problem of non-implementation? In other countries, the Institute for the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin introduced into their system quickly and effectively and in the first year of law enforcement collected millions of assets of illegal origin. The only reason this does not work in our country is, in our opinion, the lack of responsibility for the work of state prosecutors. If we draw a parallel to the economy, we find that each worker is responsible for the slightest mistake in relation to work – I stress the error, not the illegality – either by reducing wages, either indemnity, or by exceptionally cancelling the employment contract. That is why the area of responsibility is crucial for the establishment of a rule of law. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a recommendation to establish effective legal protection in the event of the dismissal of a criminal complaint.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u82	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a proposal to improve the work of the prosecution. Why this proposal? Because the solutions to criminal proceedings and the elimination of crime are the same as the prosecutor's. The Prosecutor has a position in which he can initiate or drop the prosecution of a particular crime and, as a proposaler, instructs the Government, this function is very important. Of course, I advocate that prosecutors reject the prosecution of certain crimes when they find a reasonable reason. I have always said that the Prosecutor must play that role and should in essence reject more acts and go to court only when they are confident of the success of their work. It is said that they do not burden the courts that are now overburdened, that the spoil is 100 percent and that they boast of their work. If we look at some comparable models, then we see that the prosecutor is building his career on the exploitation of his work, how successful he is, and taking responsibility. Which is also part of this proposal. We know, however, that the prosecutor as a “dominus litis” of the criminal procedure directs the work of the police and other authorities, but we see that they are undereducated, underqualified and do not perform these functions. That is why all the proposals and discussions on the position and work of the Prosecutor are still welcome, and I believe that we must therefore hold a debate and therefore support the proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. As we see, the Government does not support the proposal, given the implementation of the government's representatives, that they are already preparing all these changes, I would expect them to support the proposal, as they could praise what they have done. What is the essence of this procedure and these recommendations? The point is to give the prosecutor a position to devote all resources to him, because he leads and directs the procedure and it is up to him to succeed in further procedures. And all international research shows that the essential element of the prosecution of crime, with an emphasis on organised crime, is the position of the prosecution. It is therefore right to discuss this and it is appropriate to adopt recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Teja Ljubič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u84	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! Today, Members and Members of Parliament are considering the proposal for a recommendation to establish effective legal protection in the event of the dismissal of a criminal complaint brought by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. In the recommendation, the applicants stated that the subsidiary prosecution was not an effective remedy, which is why the National Assembly was to recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office, that it should propose appropriate measures to establish legal protection in the event of the dismissal of a criminal complaint, thereby guaranteeing greater rights for the injured persons or the complainants. The applicants point out that they do not wish to interfere with the independence and independence of state prosecutors, but point out that the independence of state prosecutors cannot be limitless. In doing so, they point out that the current legal regime does not allow for a test of the decision of the State Prosecutor to dismiss a criminal complaint and that the subsidiary prosecution is not always considered to be an effective remedy. In spite of the fact that it is necessary to upgrade the legal protection of injured persons in the event of the dismissal of criminal charges, we draw attention to the fact that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, has also raised in the Modern Centre Party, that the proposal to the Government and the State Prosecutor's Office that the measures should only be designed, without appropriate guidance or specificisation is not a recommendation within the meaning of Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which it is necessary to propose measures for the work of the State authorities. We have therefore voted that the recommendation is not appropriate for further consideration at the meeting of the home working body, and that we will therefore confirm this decision by the Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u86	Good day, and I'll get everybody a nice round of greetings! See how Mr Klemenčič, as Minister of Justice, will properly solve these things in due course, let's take a look at what is actually the fruit of his work in the past period. At the hearing, I asked him whether he supported the penal function of compensation and he said there: “Of course, this will be the first thing I will enforce when I become Minister.” Since then, you won't believe it, it's been a week, and it's been a month, and it's been a year and it's been a half, and it's about to be the end of this government, but none of this has happened. That's how much Mr. Klemenčič's word is worth. And even if we look at what happened in the area of justice. The justice in Slovenia received under Mr Klemenčič a new hairstyle, curls, polished her nails, extended her eyelashes, but the orphan remains naked and bare, because we are waiting for all major legislative changes in vain. Large-scale changes, urgent measures to bring the area of compensation legislation, the area of criminal procedure, the area of judicial proceedings to some European standards have been announced. None of this happened. We have had a lot of those fine-tuning pianist marriage proposals that have rained into this Parliament since the current government, but that we would have some really important movements in the field of justice, but of course it has not happened. Therefore, it would be good to accept the recommendation made in the proposal to establish an effective remedy in the event of the dismissal of a criminal complaint, that the National Assembly notes that the subsidiary prosecution going to the offender as the prosecutor should continue to prosecute him or her, if the prosecutor rejects the complaint, is not an effective remedy and recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Attorney General, propose appropriate measures for the establishment of effective legal protection in the event of the dismissal of the complaint, thereby ensuring greater rights for the injured person or the applicants of the complaint. You have refused to do so on the committee, and you are also predicting that you do not support such a recommendation forward and in the same breath you guarantee that you will settle this with some law. Well, let's wait and see. Because, in practice, you know, this is a huge problem. Not only is it because the prosecutor, once he has to take over the prosecution, especially if he is a private prosecutor, is in the place of the State Prosecutor’s Office or someone who should do so as an institution, in a very uncomfortable situation. Because the criminal procedure requires very high standards of proof, which are, of course, very expensive as a rule. And then it happens that a lot of them would rather give up, and then we're witnessing what I said at the beginning, that because of Minister Klemenčič, the justice got new curls, she got new nails, she got longer eyelashes, and she stayed naked and bare bare bare and bare and exposed to permanent radiation, the harmful radiation of the red star, which is then guilty not only of the poor investment blushing in Slovenia, but that she still has all the red skin because it's all burned. See what happens in practice, if so, without effective judicial protection, the prosecutor decides whether or not a prosecution is actually going to go or not. In practice, this is the point where there is most of the free judgment before which the Constitutional Court has repeatedly been so resolutely warned. Here is the most free judgment in the justice system in Slovenia. One, depending on the political orders of the current authorities, because the prosecutor, regardless of the fact that he is given in the context of the judicial system, can actually be more gravity towards the executive branch, and therefore this means a possibility of serious abuses; that someone is persecuted and someone is not. Or even if he is being persecuted, that when a key point is reached in the prosecution, the case is dismissed, resigned, let the case become obsolete or whatever happens to it. This, of course, breaks the entire legal order in Slovenia. Just like him, by the way, it ruins something else that can be directly and indirectly connected. The fact is that, by constitutional standards, the judiciary should be organised unconditionally in such a way that the judge is completely in the middle of a neutral judge; on the one hand, the defendant is on the other hand. In this case, the prosecutor would be the prosecutor, but you all know what the practice is in Slovenia; that prosecutors and judges meet regularly, walk together on muffins and deal with everything and then realize what they agree on. Which is very wrong and, by the way, obviously unconstitutional. You can ask any constitutional lawyer. Such conduct is not good. And if we leave such behaviour in the context of what we are talking about today is practically unsupervised, without further instances, without judicial supervision, it is possible to dismiss any criminal complaint, then it is a very big problem that puts the rule of law into question, weakens the trust of people, all people, entrepreneurs, ordinary citizens, anyone, in the justice system as a whole, and thus also in the country as a whole. This is simply some critical point that will have to be handled differently. And, by the way, in the past, it was already different because there was only a hierarchy of controls, because only the remedies were available, which, in some cases, proved to be effective, and then all of this ended and nothing else was done. Today there is someone who is going to a criminal complaint, and if so justified, he can be in a very unpleasant position, because once the prosecutor examines it, he can also, for example, examine a police application to go ahead with the prosecutor, and the prosecutor rejects it for some personal reason. Which, by the way, he doesn't have to be reasoned with – did you know that? That's why you have such a beautiful scale here. Disposal of settlement, due to under-significance, for withdrawal of the proposal, for lag and for other reasons. And that's the thing, "If Grandma wanted to, she dreamed about it," according to her own words. You will not believe that I have observed this from a close point of view — more than once. When it comes to things that, unconditionally under the Kazan Code, should be subject to prosecution by official duty, nothing happens, you press charges, police review, examine, make records, get statements, forward, the prosecution stands in the position that this prosecution will not prosecute and that the person who filed the complaint can do so if he so wishes. Ha, ha, good-bye! And then we call it the rule of law! Yeah, I'm sure! And we're all the same before the law. I'm sure of it twice! One in the Court of Justice for a case that would be settled in the European Court of Human Rights in two minutes, we drive for five years and the other in two weeks are convicted of minor crimes, which is legally binding. Amazing how big the differences in Slovenia are! Depends on which side of the political spectrum you're on. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, the main culprit at this time is the Minister of Justice, and no one else. For according to the constitution and the law of government he is responsible for the situation in the field which he covers. For this reason, I simply do not believe that something will change significantly here, even if the law changes, because two should be changed. Politics says very well that one-third is a change in the law or law, and two-thirds is necessary because it depends so much on who is doing it. So we're going to have to change a lot more than that. To begin with, the title and the name of the Minister of Justice should be changed, obviously because of this, those urgent movements towards a more effective functioning of the rule of law, which is also in the interest of the economy, which is also in the interest of entrepreneurship, which has been driven to Slovenian entrepreneurship, we will obviously not see this happening. In particular, we would need this in order to start with greater steps and move faster towards a judicial system that will be fully and effectively comparable at each point with the best solutions we can find within the European Union or modern democratic Europe. Because for one part of Slovenian justice, it is not possible to say otherwise than to stop one 30 years ago and insist on it. And the last human resources solutions you've confirmed obviously don't give us any special hope that it'll ever be different. Justice cannot and must not be a tool for accounting with a different mindset, as Dr. Bavcon once wrote an introduction to one of his textbooks, from which entire generations of criminal law were then taught. When I wrote this quote in my master's degree, someone else would like to throw me out on behalf of a master's assignment – that one, by the way, you all know well. From this, ladies and gentlemen, comes two. First, in order for such a recommendation to be adopted, secondly, that these matters should be regulated very seriously at the legislative level, and thirdly, that it is necessary to recruit differently, that however, there should be a system that will judge quickly and effectively, which will provide effective legal protection, the right to a trial within a reasonable time period, which, of course, also means the right to enforce what is then stated in the judgment, within a reasonable time. If someone's looking for justice for five or more years, it's no longer a right, it's a new injustice. And, by the way, I claim with full responsibility that in Slovenia, one part of the justice system inadvertently, when someone does not fit it, it leads to maximum costs and that in the end, even if formally won, he is once again fined financially. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a rule of law, it is then a system of unified power, as we knew it at another time, but that period and that arrangement is not called democracy, but totalitarianism. That is why these changes need to be made in order to increase legal certainty, to restore confidence in the justice system, and therefore also in the interests of the judicial system itself, of every part of it and of those who cooperate with it, and because it is in the interests of the State as a whole. If there is no confidence in the institutions of the country, this will then be reflected in abstinence in elections and in other similar voice options such as referendums. If this occurs regularly and if this abstinence increases from each mandate to the term of office, there will be a need to make a leap. We're gonna have to do something different. It will be necessary to move more decisively towards those reforms for which everyone, including all of you who voted against this proposal, knows that they are absolutely necessary. And they will have to be done as soon as possible because it is in the development interest of Slovenian entrepreneurship, because it is in the development interest of Slovenian democracy, because it is in the interest of protecting the human rights of every citizen and every citizen and everyone who resides here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice-President, a warm welcome to the Secretary of State, Mr Staret, and also to my colleague and, of course, to the Members and Members of Parliament! By means of the proposed act, the applicants want the National Assembly to recommend to the Government and the Supreme State Prosecutor that they propose appropriate measures for the establishment of legal protection in the event of an appeal being rejected. This reminds them of the shortcomings of the current State Prosecutor's Act, which does not allow further control over the decision of the State Prosecutor to dismiss the criminal complaint, and the possibility of subsidiary prosecution, which remains in this case, is not effective in the view of the applicants. Of course, this time, too, it did not go without stating that individual decisions by state prosecutors to dismiss criminal charges may also have political background. They also cite a number of cases where this is supposed to be the outcome of criminal proceedings. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are not against the debates in which solutions are sought to improve existing legislation, even if there is a need to do so in practice. We are aware that the legislation in force is not optimal and that improvements are still possible, including in the work of state prosecutors, but I will limit myself to the recommendation proposed. It follows from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that the National Assembly, by recommendation, proposes concrete measures to other bodies and that the recommendation under consideration is substantively undeclared. The Government and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office are expected to fully design the measures themselves. As also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, such a proposal to the Authority to self-invent measures without proper guidance or specificisation is not possible at all, nor is it in the recommendation in the sense that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide for it. We will therefore support the decision of the home working body in the Member State of Desus that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much. What should I say to the coalition representative, you read well – congratulations, 5. Yes, you've read it well! Well, what, is something wrong? Really, nice read, wonderful. However, I have no comments on the content. Okay, but you didn't say anything. All right, let's go to the debate. Look at this absurdity. If I were to decide at the Justice Department, I would do what? I'd say take it right away, correct it a little bit, if necessary, conclusions, and say yes. Why? Since I would say, look, in a month, I've already reached conclusions, and I'd be bringing in the marriage — the one you're talking about. That would be the normal relationship between the coalition and the opposition. When you were secretary of state in another service, we know in which one, we often discuss the relationship between the opposition and the coalition. I'm talking about the 2004-2008 period. I remember exactly one of the government meetings that followed the questions sent to the Prime Minister, who was then, and one of the Members, I don't remember, but he was sitting in that corner there, and I think he was on the side of the SD, and it was obvious that when the coalition overturned the opposition's proposals. Rather, the Member wanted to tell the President of the Government that it would be good to take the opposition's proposals into account more than once. After that meeting of the Government, which followed, next Thursday, I remember that we had concluded the official meeting of the Government, and I think it was 2006 or 2007, and the President of the Government said to the ministers: "Stay still." Of course, there was an informal debate, you will probably not find this in any record, because it was outside the official part of the government's meeting, but the word came out precisely about how much we respect the opposition and what our attitude towards the opposition is. The then President of the Government said relatively clearly, quite harshly to ministers who were present there, or to state secretaries: Do not reject smart proposals. Do not reject wise suggestions! That was so harshly said. Since I was in charge of the situation at the time, i.e. relations, relations, however you wish, between the Government and Parliament, I was also in charge of monitoring such things and talking with ministers – or through the President of the Government, however – about what needs to be taken into account and what cannot be taken into account. Because you probably can't take it all into account. If someone comes in mid-year with VAT cuts, then we all know that this is not possible because the budget is adopted. However, many of the other proposals we have tried to take into account because such meetings with the recommendations of the Government at the time did not practice or almost never go in this direction to make such recommendations or to make some extraordinary recommendations. Well, what an extraordinary session they have already called for, but on another subject, let's say we should not be chairing the European Union – November 2007 – I think it was – if the government is not suitable for the EU Presidency. But when we said so, you take over the government, but they said they didn't hope. That's how it was. But we have not only participated in the amendments, many amendments of the then opposition have been accepted. Moreover, the opposition at the time, because I do not see anyone in this House sitting here — yes, I think there is no one — I also have to repeat it for the public, and the time allows me, given that you blinked from the hall and that you do not want to debate, we went even further in relation to the coalition: the opposition. We have included the opposition in the drafting of legislation. Yes! We have included the opposition in the drafting of legislation! How? By giving them the government's normative programme at the beginning of the year and telling them we're going to change these hundred, I don't know, 200, 300 laws this year. And we told them what laws. The opposition leaders, particularly the then-present president of the country, the then leader of the opposition, had the most serious relationship. This – what was it? LDS or the rest of LDS – they were more like that, they were more of a ornament, but the main opposition No, no, you were a coalition. [[...]] It's okay. The then main part of the opposition, said the SD and its president, surrounded the list – I have these lists today – around about, I don't know, 60, 65 percent of the whole laws in the year-round quota and said that other laws are less important for us, but those that I have set up are important laws for us and therefore we want to participate in this area in the creation of this legislation. What followed? That every minister before he brought the law to the government before he brought the law to the government, we sat in that government office there, mostly there; on the one hand, our minister, on the other hand, the SD representative and we coordinated the laws. I do not recall one single law in the field of economics, I stress one single law in the field of economics that would not be harmonised. In fact, Ferry Horvath was on that side. But I remember many of the educational laws on the other side of Majda Potrat. There, however, nothing could be reconciled because it was against such an agreement. But what was the result? At that time, the opposition supported more than 60 percent of those laws by voting in the National Assembly, which means that these laws were harmonised to this extent. Why am I explaining this to you? Because the current coalition is unable to do so. I'm telling you, you're incompetent for something like this. Look, two days ago, you were writing an amendment, that amendment to the notice-gathering memo. But for God's sake, don't you have at least two in this room - Dobovšek, and here I - who know anything about it? Let's just say we know something about it, and the Secretary of State knows something about it. Yeah, we almost need to know something about working on the police after 30 years! You're not enough to call, but listen, we're going to table an amendment like this, or you're going to agree with this amendment. No! No! Write a sausage and fill the ground inside. Eh. Why am I saying this again? Because in this recommendation, the Secretary of State, a calm soul, could accept the matter and boast about how you accept the opposition's proposals. I'd do it. But if you do have a marriage, it's already written and it's your intention to come with it. The fact that that law is not a copy-paste will be the next time we consider that law, this is the Criminal Procedure Act, we will not be talking about it today, because our text is much broader, not copy-paste, as you say, of your texts. But since you are not capable of making deals because you are not capable of talking and cooperating with the opposition, you consider yourself to be, as it is called, the smartest – there are no wisers in this world – and therefore you do not cooperate with the opposition. But we could make a recommendation, and in the Criminal Procedure Act we would make a hybrid — one who doesn't know what a hybrid is, let the Rules of Procedure go look at it — and say, see how we work with the opposition. But if we change positions, we'll do it, even though you're rude and you don't want to do it. It's our style. Let me also say what I didn't say earlier about the pay phone there; this is a subsidiary prosecution, or a substitute prosecutor, whatever we consider it to be. Look, we have eight days of marriage written today. If you don't respond in eight days, it's ad acta. If you don't take over the chase in eight days, as you said at home, it's over. Tell me which citizen is able to prepare within 8 days to take over the chase, or which lawyer is willing to write down everything else within 8 days to take over the chase. He can't, with a bunch of files he's got. And the deadline we have today, 8 days, certainly needs to be extended much longer than we have these hands today – I think for a few months. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I see that the wish of the coalition is very extensive in this debate, and I am on the turn of day, so I hope that at least those we are discussing today will be discussing really substantively and especially in this spirit in which this or that recommendation is prepared. This is because, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party – and therefore also these recommendations – the current legislation, when it comes to the responsibility of the work of prosecutors, is not well regulated. In short, it is that some inappropriate decision to initiate prosecution, as well as of course the abandonment of prosecution, can raise great doubts in the entire justice system. Of course, if the case is taken into consideration, then we have the levels of the court and it is clear whether the prosecutor, by examining the case and of course moving forward, is then seen through the case law whether he acted correctly or not or how quality this case was prepared. And here at this point, there may be some doubt, not least, that the matter may be prepared in one way or another. Above all, there is a greater problem when the prosecutor rejects the case. At that time, in fact, there is no real means of determining whether or not this was done properly. So if we look hypothetically, there is one case that, of course, fits an elite in this country, of course, the prosecutor will reject the case. But you know, the consequences are here. I will also remind you of this example of the Bulmastifs, because you all know well that in public at the time the matter was still reflecting and, of course, had far greater consequences. First of all, let me remind you that after the first attack, these dogs were returned to the owner after the wrong decision at the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm going to give you a banal case. Even in my family, we had adopted a dog, we wanted to do something useful, not knowing that these animals also had traumas that they didn't get to know you enough when they were adopted, they didn't say enough, they didn't present enough. And this puppy of ours was looking forward to attacking the first puppy he ever met. The matter ended perfectly well, without any injuries – thank God. But look, we got: immediately control, punishment of the police, then the dog had to go on to further processing and it was also said that as soon as any matter would happen, go to rearming this dog and so on. Why am I saying this? Because these bullmastiffs, this case, they attacked a man. It cost him almost his life. And they were brought back. The story then went on, and unfortunately, there was a much worse tragedy when those dogs then attacked the owner. But we all and then the whole of Slovenia knew much more than the obvious prosecutors, because they put the matter under the carpet. There was no prosecution. And all those who, at the time of that call of the National Assembly, were a little bit more on this matter, I'm going to say, I'm going to play, and they know exactly that there were a lot of Indians so that the matter could go on. But of course, we know well that there was a political elite involved in this story and, of course, there was no interest in it. That is why I am not actually surprised at the position of the SMC Group today, or if this proposal is supported, because it is still in the country's interest that when it suits someone, the prosecutor will start a case and start a procedure that was known at the beginning, that he does not drink water – for example, I remember Patrio, but I remember who then dealt with the case and to whom it was committed at first. Even the prosecutor herself then asked her to be removed from the case at that stage because her husband was involved in the arrest of Janez Janša. How small is the world? And how many people circle in the same places all the time! But the thing is, we know how it ended. Actually, it's in the favor of SMC, because that's how you got the election. We all know that today. And not only did you achieve for a period of time that you removed the mandate of one of your fellow Members and was unable to carry out the mandate at that time. But things could be worse. If, at that time — a colleague who had come to the National Assembly for a fresh start, she laughed — but look, the matter could also end by taking the next Member in line or candidate on the list because you were in such a hurry, and today Janez Janša would no longer be a Member. Of course, some now look down because you feel embarrassed; at least you are honest. And if the word "excuse ourselves" has never been said in this National Assembly, you're at least a little embarrassed. This is also true sometimes in a part where a person knows that he has been right all along, and then he finally finds out that he did. Then let me remind you that this Patria, you know, has a little bit more of these hunters. It is a matter of a journalist where it has been said that a competent authority is not competent to deal with matters and that the matter has been closed. Instead, if it were true that he was not competent, that prosecutor would have to hand it over to someone else. But for the first time, it was entirely competent because the matter was on RTV Slovenia, it was not necessary to give it any further, but the story ended this way, because of course everyone knew well that the journalist who was there – before that Kos was several times the anti-corruption commission, the head of the anti-corruption commission, little planes up in Finland and boom. But the matter had to be stopped in time, since otherwise we could have obtained information that would have shown that the story was not drinking water at the time, and things had to be taken. This is how I cannot agree with the position expressed by honourable fellow Member Teja Ljubič. For it is absolutely the case that the prosecution is independent, but it is not irresponsible. In this country, we are all responsible, and if we do not have a system that can in some way define this responsibility, see if there has really been irresponsible behaviour, even when it comes to pursuing a career path, it would be right to arrange it. Because in this way there will be fewer doubts, and this is certainly an added value to the fact that people will also believe in the justice system. Today, a prosecutor can throw things away on the basis of documents, and if there is no further matter, the matter will be closed. Puff! It's not independence. Judges, for example, have all the judges in the first instance, in the second instance, those in the second instance, the Supreme Court and so on. And then – thank God – and the Constitutional Court – thank God twice a square – the European Court, because there, too, this justice scene with its hunters cannot achieve what it wants. Yesterday we discussed how stupid it is to restrict access to the Supreme Court in the stage of our adoption of the law. Here I welcome the debate by colleague Igor Zorčič, regardless of the fact that he came from the parties to the coalition, that he doubted that solution. It also came from the legal order and doubted. I hope that more and more of you will, with any solutions proposed by the Government, or even when proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, consider whether they are really so bad or only because they are proposed by the SDS, or are still willing to protect some elites who are well-powered and have control of this country through your voices. I hope you are also aware of this and will increasingly know that in this country it is so: if you do not have a solid foundation, if you do not have some stability and credibility, of course they will reject you when they no longer need you. Let me remind you again of LDS; with 36 percent — they are nowhere else today. It is said that once again some interest has arisen in individuals to bring this party to life, but also colleagues laugh, it can be forgotten, it can be lame, so on. We've almost forgotten some. You know, if you're working hard, if you're doing what's right and what's right, you're going to be a standstill in the political space. This is also known by Western democracies. There have been customers who have been on the scene for decades, of course, changing power – and so is – but they do not know some satellite parties, and when you mention to them the name of a party sitting in this national assembly, they take their head because no one in some European developed countries knows housing customers, but they know customers who advocate some values, which our European culture and our society are based on. This is, of course, one image of our country. And all of this by rejecting such helpful suggestions helps us to have the system as we have it, and sometimes we cannot do more than we can. Today, I will be very happy if the media report on this recommendation, which can actually have great benefits and, of course, it will be very bad or bad if we do not accept it. Look, this isn't the law. It's about the recommendations. Plenty of time, the fact is that they can still take a good look at them in the ministry and all the services, see where the solution is – and why reject what? I don't understand that. It's clearly said inside when it was. During the period of Minister Zalar, the interest was to change in some way. And that wasn't a good solution, that's what we find today. This, if you find those who work in the system, in the judicial, judicial, whatever, will certainly, at least intimately, find that the prosecutor cannot be just a blue sky. It can't be. He's not above us, not even above the judges in some way. And now with some of the solutions that were adopted yesterday, but also with the 2015 Committee proposals, there would be a lot more, in fact, people would see that things are really starting to move in the right direction when we talk about transparency, accountability and also reward. For behold, today all the accusers fall into the same basket: he who does good works, who really does one thing, and tries to get it as well as he knows and can, and some are successful. But we have those who do not benefit the prosecution, but benefit something else for which they are called. Now we have to ask ourselves what country we want. I really hope that the time will pass by when we are everywhere, in the entire system, literally have these elite structures inside, which then care and hold everything even in this country. Thus, I would not be as vehemently rejecting such recommendations as the SMC – I am sorry. I'd like more discussions on that. But as we say, because each one of us can do this once, all those who are our constituents, either your electorate or our electorate, will be able to have such problems and have them. We work for them. It is not that the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed this; it is whether we benefit and want to do something good together or not. Because I suggest you sign yourself, the whole coalition, but in advance these last two years, because some of the government's proposals are almost no longer expected – the Justice Minister promised everything alive, yesterday I told myself what parameters they wrote down, you wrote down in a coalition contract and where it is. However, the solutions are really worse, some laws with 20 articles that I think would be the last in line and that there is a lot to be settled and respected in the judiciary if we are to raise trust and bring it closer to European standards. I call for reflection here; reflection and, in fact, as I said, if you can't say it out loud, I hope you know at least intimately that these recommendations are good, that they are useful and that you will be able to come up with a better solution than this moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, Darko Stare, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! In opening, I would like to express my agreement with the opinion expressed by honourable Member Gorenak that cooperation, communication, partnership between the opposition and position is, of course, welcome, because both ourselves and our team believe in this principle and this has led to our work. For we believe that cooperation, communication, means learning from one another, and that at the same time means better decisions and more reliable conduct for the future. However, if I now apply this to what is the subject of today's debate, the matter is, of course, absurd. In fact, why? We're not here to brag, but we're focused on the result, on the effect. And what Mr Gorenak proposes that we now commend this recommendation and agree with it would be absurd, simply because what the Group of Members proposes has no content. However, since the recommendation was tabled on 8 December 2016, on the same day a proposal for a new law was also tabled, which in its two articles, in a point governing what is the subject of today's debate, namely, a subsidiary prosecution, is actually copied by only one article in the novel law prepared by the Ministry, which has been in public debate and available to all since August last year. This means that what we have actually done, they are now recommending and we would like to commend it now. In other words: yourself. We don't need this because we said we weren't here for the impression, but we're focused on the result. The fact is also that this call for an expert debate under this point is very welcome, but it is difficult to discuss professionally on the assumption, because I know, specifically, Mr Grims, a respected Master of Law, to explain here to the public, to the camera, the regulation of subsidiary prosecution and the institution of the dismissal of the complaint in a completely different way than is regulated in the law. I don't think he knows how it's arranged, but if he doesn't know, it means both bad because the result is that the public is being misled. Indeed, the law makes it very clear that each prosecutor must explain his decision on the competition, which is formally expressed in the form of a decision. The same goes for the statement of a fellow Member of Mrs Bahova that prosecutors are an independent body. They're not an independent organ, they're an independent organ. An independent court is some other body. Why am I stressing this? Because these solutions, which the Government has now proposed, in order to ensure that the legal situation of injured persons in the pre-trial procedure and also later improve, would have been feasible since 1994, since those provisions of the CAP were in force, and since 2011, when the State Prosecutor's Office Act was adopted. And since Member Gorenak mentioned what function we were in at the time of the adoption of the law, he will probably also recall that in that function I had the honour in this national assembly, on behalf of that body, to argue this arrangement, which reduced the supervisory appeal exclusively to an accelerant remedy. No one then argued, but the themes were focused on other aspects of the law. In fact, until then, in the context of a supervisory complaint, it could also be argued from the point of view of the injured party or the legality, regularity or expertise of the decision, in which case the dismissal of a criminal complaint could be carried out. In short, it is difficult to discuss in a way that comes out of some assumptions that are completely incorrect already under existing regulations, and at the same time so resilient to say that nothing we do is bad, is useless and then reduce into some parables with painted nails and so on. I simply do not want to go into such a debate, but I am impressed that you are inclined not to see any efforts and solutions that are designed to make things better, as the Government has also expressed – agreement with the purpose and purpose of this recommendation. It is absurd, however, for us to praise our own work, because this recommendation, which is concrete in the law proposed by the same parliamentary group on the same day, is actually copied from the public declaration of our law. This favor that you do not want to see what appears to exist, I will not now list the organisational, material, procedural provisions that we have already tabled in this mandate and adopted by the National Assembly, but you see a lot of what does not then happen and does not exist. In the context of another law, there should be 3 million people in Slovenia last summer or in Slovenia, but there are still 2 million. It is simply difficult to discuss professionally at this level. I really do, and I expect a proper debate. All those interested can see these solutions that you are proposing on the Ministry’s website from August 2016 onwards. It's identical. So far, no government, not yours As I say, this law is old, from 2004 to 2008 it was a mandate, 2012 was a mandate – it did not happen, but we will do it and we do not need to boast about it, but we want a result. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Replica, please, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u96	Mr. Old, now you're deceiving. Is it true, I'm just going to ask you, if some prosecutor refuses a trial or some kind of treatment, the case ends? Is it true? It's true. Is such a case put to trial? It's not. So, what? And something else. You mentioned that you're preparing this proposal, it's similar, and then it's: good morning! You have a coalition here, and then you just support these recommendations. They're just gonna be good at this. You know, you have double standards. You do have double standards. But above all, don't speak, please, flat-rate. Here yesterday, I commended what was good for the rescue. But I will always oppose the solutions that make things worse; and unfortunately, these are more than good by your ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak checked in, and then the Secretary of State. Let Mr Jože Tanko be prepared as the first debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, it would be good if we came from the clouds down to Šubič's 4. You're out there in the clouds. Look, every time something good happens to you, I commend it. Even when the Minister is not sure when, I think, this Monday or any other occasion, he was talking about how you intend to fix the CAP in this direction. I am for and would be glad that this should come as soon as possible; but if nothing comes of you. That's the problem. Look, you were talking about the state's attorney having to explain before he dropped the case. That's great! Then what happens? What happens when he explains it? Nothing. In the drawer, yes. But the secretaries book and say ad acta. Done. Now, whether you explain it or not, it's totally out of the question. For my sake, explain on 100 pages or half a page if such explanation does not go into any more verification. By 2011, she went to check in, as you know. There was at least one signature. So the explanation doesn't mean anything. Nothing at all. It's just one act the D.A. writes, then goes to the secretary and the archives. So don't fool yourself with this explanation that I don't know what kind of control it is. It's nothing! There's nothing to explain. But if someone had to approve and say yes, I agree, but that's another story. Then sign there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Stare, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you. So, I mentioned in the context of Mr Grims' statement that there is no need for an explanation to be made for the state prosecutor now that he has dropped the criminal complaint. This is not true because it expressly commands the law and the State Prosecutor's Order. However, as for the function of explanation, we all know that it is in place to provide an effective remedy or defence. In this case, the defendant’s legal protection, because he sees from the explanation why someone rejected it, and he can argue. It is also not clear that, until 2011, when the ZDT was adopted in this form and in force, the automatic rejection of the complaint also meant a review at the level of the leader of the ODT. This happened only when a supervisory complaint was lodged as a quasi legal remedy. So these things need to be said correctly, because the simplistic way of saying what you say is not right, that I will not say that it is not real at the same time and, of course, it is misleading. What is even more paradoxical in this manner – and I have no doubt that you have the same purpose as us, so to improve the situation, to strengthen the legal situation of the injured at all stages of the criminal procedure – but it was during your term of office that the Supreme Public Prosecutor took the position that even when the State Prosecutor dismisses the action in the form of a dismissal decision, it is not necessary to refer this decision to the injured person, since he is then informed and begins to run this 8-day period when he is able to decide and introduce or propose a subsidiary prosecution. This is what we are also changing, that this deadline will be 30 days, and this has been pointed out by the Ombudsman in his reports since 2008, and no one has made it happen or wanted to do so since 2009. Now this is also in this proposed law since August. And the fact that the state prosecutor, by means of a decision rejecting a criminal complaint, must present this decision to the injured party is an explicit command in Article 161 of the CAP since 1994 and in Article 82 at that time — now that it is a new State Prosecutor’s Order — is an explicit command, that is, a coherent provision for every state prosecutor, and any injured person should have received it home, but in practice the prosecution has not implemented it. Moreover, the top of the administration said that this was not necessary and necessary, although this was a cohesive provision, but then, in the framework of judicial supervision, no one asked the top of the administration why this was so that laws and regulations were not respected, which are an expression of public interest, as determined by the respected assembly when it adopts laws. So to discuss this way is simply and kindly incorrect.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u102	Why would it be important for Fisher to do this in 2012 or the top of the prosecution's organization? What, why is the anniversary important? [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no, no. [[…]] You said 2012 because I was his boss at the time – in the sense of a minister. Do you think that the interior ministry has been informed of what the summit of the prosecution organization has accepted and that there is no need to send an explanation? Do you think we've been informed?Oh, my God! This one was walking through the eyelashes, and I'll tell you if you look him in the eye. When I looked him in the eye, he hung him down, and he said I had a political influence on him. If he has accepted such a thing, he has, of course, caused a disaster, even more so, committed an illegal act and today I am giving you the initiative to propose a solution. Now that you have said that, I must say that we will deal with the Group of Members and we will give an initiative to resolve it. However, let us resolve it once, or let it be resolved, even if it is three months before the official departure. Because one way or another, from the first day he came, he's only been doing what? We know, disaster! And yet we do need another chief at the top of the prosecution's organization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! For this year, which I mentioned, 2012, I remember it, I don't know, maybe it was 2013, maybe 2011 but it wasn't an emphasis, as you understood, so that you were a minister, the emphasis was "at the top of the state prosecutor's office". And under that document was signed by Mrs. Barbara Brezigar. Now I don't know exactly what year it is, it wasn't Fisher's case. But we were on KPK and there was communication because we wanted to ensure that laws were respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u106	Then let's not talk about the same thing. No! No! I don't think we're talking. If Barbara Brezigar was signed, she was Secretary of State, at least in 2012. In 2011 and 2013, she was elsewhere at the prosecution's organisation. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, well, then there's another story. Then it's not 2012 when I was responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grims, then it's Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. First, a few words to the Secretary of State. I think that in all the years I've been in the National Assembly, I've never done this before, but I'm handing you a message from Mrs Kranj, and I can also say that this is Mrs Kristan, who is dismayed at saying that whoever represents the Government back there behind me was mocking those who spoke behind his back. Me, too. And he goes, "Crazy, crazy. Secondly, ask me to tell you in her name that it would be the only thing that can do good if she and the minister clean up. Look, what you're doing here today is beyond all limits, by the way. And you tell others you don't know, you have no idea what you're talking about. You're referring to people with masters of law, by the way, they're political masters, which, of course, we could check for ourselves, if we could at least know who you're talking about and what you're talking about. What I was saying when I was quoting explanations, and you're saying, you know, I wasn't referring to one case that I wouldn't know, but one case that, you won't believe, I know the hell of it, and I'm going to say a few words about it later, which is wonderful to say what the system of justice is, for which you are responsible, and your Minister Klemenčič. What you're experiencing is that you don't really have to write an explanation, I talked about it. Formally, of course, there are explanations! Of course, it's required, it's prescribed. But what are they doing? Copy-paste. And then he writes you something: we find that it doesn't have those signs, and because we think that's true. Here you go, and you go ahead. Even if the marriage is like this, even if ten constitutional lawyers say it's total nonsense, what this guy wrote, and some copy-paste is enough. Now, where is he going to complain about the current system? To be effective in court or I don't know what. Nothing. You can continue on your own. And once you're in a story like this, Mr. Secretary of State, what happens? Because, of course, you have no choice, and you know that this is a hopeless act to go to prove people's criminal responsibility, because this is extremely difficult legal, you're going to sue for damages. And look what happens in the justice system that you're responsible for? Suddenly you, not the first stage, but the higher court, you just cut out one piece, and they say if you want to have it again, you have to start from the beginning. And in the end, you end up with a whole bunch of lawsuits, which, of course, means costs to each other, you rotate them, they always bring you back to the beginning of this justice system. After the initial, where your colleagues probably made a deal with each other, where you don't get it, you get it all at all levels, you win it, to the Constitutional Court, and whoever's lost it, the public horn, over and over again – so much for effective judicial protection. But, of course, it's not over. You've already spent about 50,000 euros, that's for two cars of money, and at best you'll get a little bit of that back. That's when the ones who are guilty will probably say, "Look how much he's got." In fact, you are being punished again in this system of criminal justice because you do not even get your expenses refunded, let alone compensation and the matter drags on forever. Whose case do you think I just described? Which began when the case was brought to the prosecution, it was given by the police, and they said no, if he wanted to, let him chase himself. And you're going to experience a lot more in these courts of yours. And that, for example, you order some money that you have to order after a decision by a competent judge. And by chance, since you have a sixth sense, you're gonna go check out why you didn't get the certificate. And they almost throw you out. And after an hour and a half, they're gonna announce it to you. Look, they got it wrong. If they wrote to someone who had to pay for one thing there, they'd write it down to you, and they could sue for the rest of their days with the court. And run, come on! And they spelled it wrong, watch it, in the electronic publishing system. Do you know how to make a fortune today? The bank shall supply a code which has been verified and verified and accurately entered four times. And when he gets there, there's nothing to book. What do you think this was, a fraud? Well, that's a court of law. That's not happening! But that's your responsibility. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, this is not how you perform. Because if this is happening to one Member of Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, then what is going on only to an ordinary citizen! And you are responsible for this, because, together with the minister, you are legally responsible for the functioning of the justice system as a whole and make a little less laugh because this system is not good. That's not all I'm saying. This is what the vast majority of citizens and citizens have said in public polls, wrote publicly, and this has been pointed out by the institutions of the European Union, a story that they should have put on a different footing long ago. The fact is, for example, I mentioned earlier that the Minister promised at the hearing that he would do something that, of course, he did not do until today, and probably never will. But you'll say you had a government, too. Yes! Then this government ended. The law was written. Dr. Sturm wrote it, and I can tell you that, he was already ready. But before it came to order, the government fell, and that's why there's no law today, and that's why someone who loses himself in court, even in the Constitutional Court, can at the end of the corner to the one who won the trial because there's no effective justice. For if it is not at the end of this in a just way, in a truly just way, then of course it is not the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen! And the Constitution is not enough, and I therefore insist on what I said at the outset, that it will have to be done enormously to move this system; not only at the legislative level, but also at the level of those who are in practice doing so. Because a lot of things could have been done differently, but it's not done on purpose, because that's what suits someone. Then it depends on how you write, what customer you are, where you are in the work of the political spectrum, what role you are in, how one is tried for five years, on a matter that is clear to everyone, and on one that is very questionable, what is, in fact, condemned in 14 days. Interesting! And we're all the same before the law. Yes, of course! It's me. Only some are subject to revolutionary law and some are subject to a judicial system. One wonders how it is possible that someone who loses can then become the one who has won the legal battle and the corner of the surface. From week to week. That doesn't work once; so he'll get away with it. Public! Someone assured me that when it comes to the next level, we have someone there to avenge it. You're just wondering if that's possible. I hope not. Although in what we have already experienced here, what I have experienced, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that everything is possible. This is a huge problem, ladies and gentlemen! For once again I say that if this happens to someone who has a function, ask yourself how can an ordinary citizen, an ordinary citizen, achieve his right in such justice. That's what you have to ask yourself, because it's really about them. If we are not all equal before the law, if the Constitution is null and void, if the prosecution has an open mind, some leads forward, and then they can take advantage of the other and work in one direction or another. Although laws should be the same for all, justice should be blind or blindfolded and have a weight to determine who was right. Only this justice, ladies and gentlemen, is regrettably only in what I said at the beginning. She didn't get anything under this government. There was no serious change under this government. Under this government there have been a lot of pianist interventions and there have been tremendous changes to the appearance of changes, so that nothing can change, leading to Slovenian transitions since the creation of independent Slovenia. Minister Klemenčič made sure that justice received beautiful new curls, new eyelashes, polished nails in Slovenia, but remained naked and barefoot. And until the government changes, and until the power changes, believe me, nothing is going to change. We can write this down or something. Even when we want to offer cooperation, as was the case in this case, we are witnessing mockery and humiliation of everything else, only some common support, but unfortunately not joint decisions. But there are areas, ladies and gentlemen, I have been saying this all these years since I've been in the National Assembly, where we should find a common ground. These are areas of security, human rights protection, constitutionality and legality and, if you like, areas of substantive change in justice. If these changes were to be applied in the area of arguments, in the area of consensus, things would be better; they would be better for entrepreneurs, for the development of Slovenia, for ordinary people, for citizens and for citizens. And it's about them! And it should always go for them, but there's nothing wrong with that kind of authority. It's just about power.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I have to find out in some way that, despite the shameless one who was here yesterday on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, it is Minister Klemenčič that is not here today. But even though this debate by the Government is a little more peaceful, it is, in some ways, just as arrogant and underestimating and even rude — however we explain it. Nothing has changed in this, all the methodology of work, all the technology of the Ministry's work is exactly the same when you were all at the KPK. Mr. Old, you and your chairman haven't changed a bit. You're right, you're making an agenda that needs to be worked out, and how, in this case, you're processing a political party that has proposed something, and you're doing it on an extreme basis, I'm going to say, a rude way. If it is not possible to discredit an individual, an old-timer, invented cases and so on. I speak from my own experience that there will be no mistake. Depending on how you brag, what you've done and what you're gonna do. In 2016 you entered 19 laws into the Government's normative programme. This regulatory programme was approved by the Government on 6 January 2016. You have made only two laws out of this normative programme that have been passed. For this year, the year 2017, of those 19 of whom you have made two, you are proposing only nine more laws in the legislative adoption of the National Assembly. Now I'm asking where those ten missing acts have gone. This programme was received on 13 January 2017. So we're talking about speed, about the dynamics that are happening in your department. In 2015, at the beginning of 2015 we considered the so-called mini judicial reform. Is that right? That mini-judicial reform was a correction of five laws, with the only change actually to make recommendations made by Greece to judicial legislation. Nothing else happened in that mini-package! Recommendations in legislation that no country has. But you did this to the public to show that you are some team of people on the field, which is awfully much for you to ethics and more, to these things that are related to the recommendations of Greece, to transparency and so on. But in principle, you came to the point where you were working on cases based on structures in the previous office. I think that this is one problem that this country will somehow find difficult to swallow, one that it is. That things are worse, things are just moving on, building up. None of those things that were like delusions are being solved, but they are simply being upgraded by new cases and new cases of inconsistencies and causal cases of misconduct. That statement made by Mr Štefanec that someone had come to the office of Minister with illegality, that he had left his shoes where he had been illegally infected, he must have kept. Because everything you as a KPK team have been processing into affairs and stories that ended up in the courts either at the Supreme Court or at the Constitutional Court has fallen. And none of those who have participated in these procedures feel exactly any moral responsibility for what you have done. Nobody. I myself have been in some cases, which unfortunately did not end in court proceedings, but you have falsified the evidentiary case; even in the National Assembly, there have already been such statements in this mandate. As for the procedures or actions ahead, gentlemen, you have promised a great deal of what you will do in certain procedures, with certain amendments to the legislation from the special commissions of inquiry and so on – nothing has happened! Nothing! The matters are in the National Assembly, the legislative process is obviously unconstitutional, and here we are. There was also a lot of talk when you were working on the KPK, including that minister who was so rude yesterday, about how legislation must be adopted, how to deal with public awareness, e-democracy and more. Don't hold on to any of this! Those who wrote those two reports on the KPK and signed them don't stick to it. They're not holding! They don't respect the public, they don't respect the debates in the National Assembly, but their answers are extremely arrogant, humiliating, mocking and so on. As a matter of fact, it's enough to be a minister, if you're a common malice, that's how it looks. And what Comrade Grimes read earlier is true for today's case, and much more so for yesterday when we had a vote on the President of the Supreme Court. I understand that the coalition has a terrible problem with the proposals proposed in this mandate for the legislative process. But whatever we propose, either in the areas of health, education, economy, agriculture, justice, finance – we open any debate, whatever we want to open up as a topic and recommend to the Government that something change in this area – it falls smoothly! May this be a recommendation to make this a law, let it be any act — a smooth fall! It's not systemic, it's not comprehensive, you don't understand, you've had time, you haven't done it, and so on and so forth. That the thing is even worse, those who tell us this aren't even able to say it, but they have to read it from a piece of paper written by the Government. That's worse. This is a worse case. So, even this simple sentence, these people haven't been able to learn within two and a half years to think about it, but they have to read it from the government's last opinion, the last paragraph. In this case, too, there is nothing completely different. It's absolutely no different. We have a coalition, the biggest government party, the minister of the largest government party who knows more than the gods. There's no thing that wouldn't make her the only thing that's saved and only right. Everything others suggest – they had time, I don't know, but by 2008 in the meantime – as if then the world had stopped, as if then no one had been further away, as if no new knowledge had been made at that time or had appeared in individual solutions, when dealing with cases, when reading reports from the Attorney General's Office or the Supreme Court on the functioning of the judicial system or the Ombudsman's recommendations or someone else's. Like nothing happened in the middle, that's how you act. And you act like it's gonna be behind you when you're gone for centuries. That's exactly how you talk here, teaching us what it's gonna look like. That's not gonna happen. There will still be new knowledge, new needs and new solutions, let this be the case, let this be a problem in education, health, social and elsewhere. So it would be good if at least this school of life, when things are being built, opened up and proposed, when they mature, when enough knowledge comes to such a thing to be done. I don't know if you know what the solution will be in five years' time, which solution will have to be corrected in five years' time in these laws that you're covering in justice. Do you know that? You know that, don't you? You don't know what's going to have to be changed into a marriage in 2022. I don't understand why you're saying why we didn't do this until 2012 or 2013 or in 2008. You know what 2025 will have to do, and your minister? I want an answer so much that we can put the matter in the right tracks and talk about the right things. At this point, we have a proposal on the table to correct or to improve a solution that is not good. You know that, and we know it. We didn't prescribe any of you to have any misunderstandings. I say that with all my responsibility. Nothing, gentlemen! There are, however, examples, such as the Law on apprenticeship, which we have dealt with a little earlier today, when we have proposed it three times, but now you, Government, have prescribed a two-thirds solution, and one third have made it worse. These are the cases and we are in this mandate in the field of justice and also elsewhere have proposed twice, three times certain solutions; twice, three times certain solutions have been non-systematic, inappropriate, incomplete and you have rejected them. And then the minister came in with some correction of some judicial laws when he was allowed or by correction of the court, when the painting of the judges was allowed and so on. And that's a win. It's a win! See when this was first proposed, or who made plagiarism; either systemic or in another act. I think that in this way, Mr Stare, and so on, it is difficult to talk if every proposal we make is discredited in the way that you have now done. That the problem with the rejection of public prosecution complaints is the fact that we gave you a table that is an official table and the number of complaints that have been dropped since 2010, which was 14 thousand 500 in 2010, increased in 2015 to 18 thousand 500. 18 thousand 500 cases, where proceedings were initiated, were dropped, were dismissed, and ended in the prosecution! From what is the problem – and I think that the problem is – was the rejection of more than 200 cases, regularly through close to 300 in certain years, and for unknown reasons between 8 thousand 500 and 10 000. So, stronger than that, almost 60 percent of the cases that came to the prosecution were rejected for various reasons. So in this case, we're not just talking about some marginal, we're not talking about some marginal, we're talking about some problem that's real. There are at least so many individuals and their families following these court proceedings or after these complaints. If not anymore. I think that this debate is relevant in this case, why these things are going to happen and how this thing can be improved, that it will not get stuck somewhere without the behaviour of the one who initiated the process. I don't think so either, I was involved in some sort of lawsuit as the complainant, it's a Tof case that wrote that piece of crap on his portal that lost a civil suit in all cases and didn't pay for it, it can't be recovered because he's in the middle of some bullshit, and a criminal indictment was filed for the same case further. And this prosecution is supposed to wear off in court. Now I am also asking you: can you, or what can you do to make sure that, for example, the prosecutor in this case, who led the case – what did he do in these cases so that this would not happen? But it's not a difficult case. It's just that it's probably one of those rejected stories in the judicial system where it was impossible to avoid the judgment of a known Tof, and they just brought the proceedings to an end. These are the points now, and there is no way that anything in these procedures will do or react to these things. So, I think something in these things needs to be done to make such specimens that abuse the public media and portal and then in those boxes that they process through the Sunday Diary — those that are unloving, processed and ridiculed — to end such things. However, if they do not end, they shall be duly punished in civil and criminal matters. We are not saying anything in mind. Before that, colleagues mentioned some of the other cases that have taken place. They're all verifiable. This is happening to us, who are officials, who can also, I'll say, open up or whatever we do. What about those 8,000 to 10,000 cases that don't even have the chance to tell? These are cases of outdated cases, in cases of expulsion for other reasons; in principle, they involve violations of human rights and of judicial or judicial protection after all. In all cases, the provision of the Constitution which speaks about this is not fulfilled. Our purpose, respected, is nothing more than that this matter should be properly arranged, decided on and informed by the parties concerned. And the recommendation we gave you is well-intentioned; it is well-intentioned, indeed. It's a recommendation, it's not an order, it's not a request, it's nothing. And it is incomprehensible that the coalition, for the first time and above all the government, responds in such an arrogant way to such proposals. Incomprehensible and inexplicable. that such incidents as have occurred here would occur in another, more developed, democratic world. Let's just say that this story that Klemenčič made yesterday would have happened in Bundestag — he wouldn't have even finished his speech — he would have already been a free minister! And so on. In short, Mr Stare or the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the coalition, we will continue to work on an official duty. We will still put forward proposals for recommendations, laws, such and different meetings and so on. And we will open up problems that need to be solved in one way or another; because of people waiting for this to be done, because of problems that are not solved and put off, because of your statements that you will be better, but you are not — I have read to you earlier that you are ineffective — and also because of your statements that you will work ethically to work quickly, efficiently and so on. Unfortunately, it is no different than finding that problems are only growing in all areas. Let it be a small case of the Centre for Social Work in Velenj and the removal of two children from the family environment and the non-implementation of the court decision, then even the work of appeal, and so on and so on. Don't do anything like the government. Like the government, don't do anything. If the minister doesn't want to act, the government should respect the court's decision. That's what you're for. Because decisions have to be respected. Court decisions must also be respected. And the government, with Prime Minister Miro Cerar, has done nothing to respect each other. The Minister of Justice, who is full of ethics and morality, does nothing to ensure that decisions are respected. Do not do anything to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have been written in your mandate and issued. And so on. In short, I want to tell you not to sell us stories, not to sell us stories about efficiency, honesty, respect for the rule of law, ethics and so on because you don't stick to them. But if you think you do, then I'll tell you you don't know what the rules are. The principle of fairness is the first thing you have started to violate and you are in violation of it permanently, and it is not expected that anything in this area will change in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u111	Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u112	It's a little awkward, but I understand your debate. It's hard to accept and I just got the impression that if a man because I don't really have the awareness that he's here today mocking someone to read something false, he's acting offensive; and from these assumptions you're carrying out your opinion of the position and of the obvious. [[…]] I can add to that that against people who are not here, which is, to say the least, inappropriate and unworthy, because they cannot defend themselves. But I'm not getting into this. I'd like to say that. The contents of this recommendation, which we are considering today, which you have proposed, would ask you to tell me what the content is. That's the first one. Because if there is no content, it is difficult to react, express an opinion and so on. And I'm asking you nicely what the content of yours is, except that things need to be improved. The legal service of the National Assembly has already stated that it has no recommendation because it has no content. But we have concluded ourselves in good faith because we welcome your purpose of the recommendation, which is to be understood by a simultaneous proposal that will be on the agenda tomorrow. That's one. With regard to the grounds of the substrate of these 8,000 people, injured persons when the case of expulsion occurs. This information, which you have quoted and is also part of the proposed material you have prepared, is the data from the annual report of the State Prosecutor's Office and these data are approximately the same for years. This kind of debate, which is also based on your recommendation today and we welcome it, is not from today. These debates are a decade in the National Assembly and a wider judicial mile away. In 2001, such debates were very relevant when the first Framework Decision for the Protection of Victims, adopted by the Council of Europe, was adopted. This Framework Decision is now essentially summarised in the Directive adopted in 2012 and will now be implemented in this new amended law. And there is a whole range of measures, procedural, organisational, protective to improve the legal safety of the injured, victims of crime in all stages of the proceedings, not only in this initial stage, but also in the stage of the trial. And it's hard to discuss without content. Please tell me that if there was anything like that that I said here today offensive or mocking, tell me, I'll apologize, but I don't have it in my own mind. But it's hard to comment on content that's not there. She didn't recommend it. But we welcome this effort, absolutely. And in this context, I have said that this could all be done because these themes have been present in this space since at least 2001, but it has not happened in this form, which is now promised to happen, even at the normative level. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u113	Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. As a recommendation, we have written down the following recommendation: “The National Assembly notes that the subsidiary prosecution, which goes to the injured person as the prosecutor, continues to prosecute him or starts him if the State Prosecutor rejects the complaint, is not an effective remedy and recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Supreme Public Prosecutor, propose appropriate measures to establish legal protection in the event of the rejection of the complaint, thereby ensuring greater rights for the injured persons or applicants of the complaint.” We first wrote a conclusion that was a summary of the reports, as you yourself said. And in the second case, the recommendation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office find appropriate solutions to make this a better case. What's incomprehensible if you said yourself that you've already done this job? So the point is understandable. But it is true, Mr Stare, that it is not my fault that such items are not placed on the agenda when they are due, but are classified when the coalition responds, because when the condition is met, they can be placed on the first sitting or moved for a month and placed on a meeting which will only be held in April of the month. It is likely that this classification, the classification of items on the agenda, although we are protesting several times as a group of Members, has a certain purpose. Because you know what the government is going to propose, because you're just a "on line" and then it happens so that it's a mess. This is sometimes the case in the National Assembly. We've been here so long, we know what a coalition she doesn't like does. This term of office is extremely extreme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u115	Mr Secretary of State, Mr Darko Stare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for this additional explanation and for the comment on the recommendation. Now I'm going to try to make an example of what I mean. We have a problem moving through space too slowly because we only use bicycles. The government is proposing in August 2016 that we start using cars because they are faster machines to move through space because we have too little time available. In December, the party proposes to find that we are moving too slowly through space, and on the same day, it suggests that we start moving with the car. That's it. What should we add to this? This means that you agree with what we have proposed and that you will probably support what we have proposed because your proposal is identical. You're suggesting we start using cars to move through space. Take a look at our definition of supplementing the fourth paragraph of Article 161 in the amendment to the CAPN on the August 2016 website and the CAPN proposal proposed by your parliamentary group or group of Members with you as the first to sign this proposal, and you will see that this is it. What else should we add to this? That we agree and that we will do it. However, I agree that this would be necessary, and it would make sense and right if it had happened seven years ago. He didn't. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u117	Replica Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u118	Yes, thank you very much. Why not, say, ten years ago, there was something different there? So, we understand; that you are repeating exactly a date is probably the purpose of this, or you wouldn't. Why didn't you say that Drnovskov's governments haven't solved this problem since 1992 and until 2000 or 2002. Why didn't you say so? As far as this is concerned, our recommendation and what you think. The question is whether we will fully agree with what you are proposing. We can propose amendments, we can propose a different solution. So it is not said that we know that the problem is, and the question is whether we have a solution to this problem is the same. [[…]] This government has left-wing solutions for normal things; those that do not work and cause enormously additional administration. You don't have practical solutions. Take examples: every time we talk about a solution, there is an additional label in the legislative process, in the social process and so on. We suggest that these things be speeded up so that solutions can be found. And look, don't accuse anyone of doing anything. We have done it in time when the problem has matured, and to this day, Mr Stare, the problem has not been solved. Since your famous date, when you said after 2016, there's still a hole and it's the same problem. Still! If they had suggested this to me in April, it probably would have been a problem if they hadn't put it in, and that probably wouldn't have happened either. Because the government usually, after being forced into something, then submits something quickly. I suggest that you are cautious in your claims, which you are not sure of or are not. You need to prove what you're saying sometimes, it's not just what you think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u119	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I don't even know where to start. I thought this topic was going to be more about this point, but I see it's turned into some sort of a deal with the minister and his team. I don't think you gentlemen from the Ministry have done anything to get all these criticisms and all that pompous stuff. The topic, which we have at least in the introduction of the principles, is a subsidiary prosecutor, an application, is the rejection of a criminal charge. I suggest we really get back to this topic after these two hours. I think it's important that the issue of opening up is important. We were also members of the coalition, why we reject good proposals, good recommendations to the government. I think it's already been explained, and I'm going to read the Legal and Legal Service. I know that you may throw me forward to take it into account sometimes, but not least, I did not write this, wrote the Legal and Legal Service: "In relation to the proposed report, this is the SDS Group of Members addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, it is important to note that it is not substantively determined to this extent that it cannot be considered as a proposal for certain measures for the work of the Government and the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, as the recommendation requires Article 111 of the Rules of Procedure." This is not the only reason we will reject this recommendation. One of these reasons was that it was also heard by the Ministry's representative just now, that is that the opposition is on its way to a similar solution, as it already contains a proposal for a law that is before the government's hearing. I hope you all understand this decision that the laws that we are making are, I will say, just before some district coordination in the Government that will come to the National Assembly, that we will not be duplicating ourselves with the adoption of identical copy-paste solutions so that we will not adopt two laws in order. Which means that if we accept, let's say that tomorrow your marriage, and then the government's, we have two laws practically within two, three months, and that you will understand that if we have this provision already in our government law, we will not accept it and we will insist on our own, which is as substantively the same. I also understand that you will not support the entire law because you may not like something, but as Mr Tanko has already said, you have the opportunity to amend the individual articles in the Criminal Procedure Act, which will be under consideration, and you will then, for example, highlight these circumstances, as regards the rejection of the complaint. If I go back to this criminal complaint, I'll drop the criminal charges. I think this topic is very important. I'm not going to go into some stuff here, we've heard everything alive today, from bulmastifs to patriots, in fact, this issue of this regime is important because of the rights and situation of the offender of crimes. I don't like to talk about it being a legal remedy, even though there is some content that it continues to prosecute. This is because the prosecution is primarily a competent country. And it's kind of, say, an anomaly, too, when the state decides not to prosecute someone for a crime he's suspected of, and that right then gets the victim. The defendant's right from a criminal offence is primarily to obtain compensation. However, we all know that even if he has the right to pursue this forward, he is never in the same position as the prosecutor. In this sense, I would not give him, to the injured party, some other levers, that he, for example, would continue this persecution, perhaps with some, say, procedural assumptions, but would point the thought of solving this problem into thinking about whether it might not be necessary to carry out another control over the criminal charges they are considering, let's say, criminal offences that are a little more difficult. I want to say that there is a solution, so at least I see it, that the solution must be sought in this direction, that, if possible, prosecution should be checked and retained in the state's sphere and that we are not looking for solutions that will be passed on to the perpetrators. Since the injured person will never, as I mentioned earlier, be in the same position, he will never have the same tools and options as the state prosecutor with the police and the entire state apparatus. I hope that the solution that the CAP, which we will address, is expected to go this way in this mid-year. So that she will not deal very much with the injured person as a subsidiary prosecutor, but, above all, that she will deal with the prosecutor's supervision in the event of the dismissal of criminal charges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you, too. Replica, Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that Mr Zorčič has finally begun to read the opinions of the Legal and Legal Service. And not only that; that he understands them! This is the first time I've noticed. Since when the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the case of the mandate of Janez Janša was written, you did not understand it and did not act in full contravention of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it was clearly stated that it was a violation of the Constitution of guaranteed human rights. You didn't notice, so it was clearly written. Here, where the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service is not so clear, but probably because the recommendation is made out of a finding and recommendation, they say something is not clear, but it is clear to me. There is a problem, and we have also found this through your discussions and through the debate of the Secretary of State, and the recommendation predicts that the matter is being resolved. Now, if you wanted to solve my case in concrete terms, you would have made a law that would be non-systemic again, you know that, because you know how the government will write it - incomplete, non-systematic, partial, the government will do it in the coming months in a different way, don't you? [[…]] [[…]] You take it all the time. We are also often in the dilemma of how to open up a certain issue in the National Assembly that needs to be resolved. In this case, we did the right thing and made a recommendation. And if anything is wrong or wrong, it would be incumbent on the President of the National Assembly to reject the point if it did not comply with the rules of business of the National Assembly. He didn't do it. I ask you to respect such cases when you speak of what is right and what is wrong. The President of the National Assembly shall be the one who shall reject all matters which do not comply with the rules on the agenda of the agenda. And from here on out, we can read opinions, argue and correct the things we have on the agenda. However, we do not do what you do when the priorities reject the recommendation or anything to make the case end up in a way that you do, that even how to improve a matter is no longer possible to discuss; when all the recommendations are rejected, if they happen to come into the process of dealing with the working body. It's the same with the laws. So you need to look a little bit at yourself and in your past actions before you go to comment on things that you obviously treat very selectively. If they were so consistent, Mr Zorčič, in your proposals and opinions to the Legislative and Legal Service, 70 per cent of the laws proposed by the Government should be rejected at a preliminary hearing, not in the legislative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u123	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The representative of the Government has 35 seconds if he wants to, if not, but I would like to give the floor to the representative of the proposer. Mr Darko Stare, would you like a word perhaps? [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much. In view of this last part of the debate on this recommendation, we are also looking forward to the debate when the Government submits it to the National Assembly, and I have no doubt that together we will find solutions that will improve the current legal situation of the injured in all stages of the proceedings, including this case of the dismissal of the complaint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u125	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, representative of the proposer, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I have 45 minutes and that's very good, you know, because a man can explain something more thoroughly. See, first of all, Mr. Zorčič Mr. Zorčič, see if they were correct and if you were the right coalition you would do – what? On the recommendation, however, we would say that the National Assembly notes that the Ministry of Justice is already preparing; therefore, the content of the recommendation is acceptable. That would be political blue. Secondly, what you already know is that there is a possibility in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of so-called hybrid treatment, and no problem that you have been talking about would have been adopted today, and in two months' time another law, the same content, and I don't know what. That's not necessary. The two laws, if introduced into the procedure and related to the same content, can be considered a hybrid; this means that the parent's working body unites them and makes them one law. And that's it. But you haven't come this far yet, and I'm afraid the mandate will be over before you can even get there. Next, recommendation. Law enforcement says what it says – okay, I won't go into their opinion – but I can say one thing. We find in this document that there is no adequate legal remedy for the rejection of criminal charges, and we justify that, and I think it is justified. And further, we recommend to the Government to solve this problem. Yeah, how do we do that? How would that work? However, if we were to write down, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should write such an article of the law – that is not possible, and that is not a recommendation, and that is an order! Then it would be an order to the government. This is not something the National Assembly should do. Come in. Look. Previously, someone, the secretary of state, I think he was talking about not being essential, there's no significant difference in numbers. Yeah, how's that?Oh, my God! In 2010, there were 14 thousand 589 discards and in 2015 there were already 18 thousand 243. So, in five years, it's almost 5,000. 5,000 at 15,000 is one third. It is said that in three years, in five years, it will grow by one third. So that's not true. Otherwise, look, the Secretary of State, when Mr Tanko spoke about the relationship. Well, if I'm evaluating today's performances in those parts where you were talking about my performance, I have no comment. But there's something you need to know, and I know you when you were under 15 years old, and I don't think you were 15 years old when you came to school in Tacno. And to have a relationship like that that you've had with me for the past few years — what word should I use? I don't know what word I'd use. By the way, they're cameras, they're microphones, and so on and so forth, and gravely insulting, I'll put it that way. [[...]] Look, dear Secretary of State, you got a nice job in 2006. It's a good thing you got it. I don't regret anything about that. But look, at the time that I led the interior ministry, this was your relationship, because we're talking about a relationship: as soon as I signed one job, within two hours I had your request for all the data because the thing is corrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u127	Dr. Gorenak, please don't go to a personal discussion. Let's talk content, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u128	Yeah, well, it's not gonna hurt, it's just gonna be the facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u129	Okay, preemptively then take this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u130	It won't hurt, it won't hurt, it won't worry, but it's a fact. I didn't sign one thing without you saying: Corruption, take all the documents! Yeah. And in the end, you didn't find anything. Nothing. The judicial branch of power also said that everything was fine — but what were you doing? You were fucking with me. You were fucking with me. It was nothing else, you know. If we move on. When we're talking about a relationship. Look, when you stepped down, you wrote 15 points about what needs to be changed in this country -- at least in the part where you're competent today, you could have changed and you haven't done anything yet. So there's no point in talking about a relationship. Your boss spoke to me in front of the camera until recently, and I spoke to him, Mr. Secretary. Look, that's not how it works, and that's not right, and that's not fair. As far as the recommendation is concerned, this is the case. It is quite clear that you could have made this situation acceptable; it means that you would have accepted the recommendation, but because you behave arrogantly and shamelessly, you do not accept the recommendation. And that's it. But that's a mistake; that's a mistake! This investment will not go far – only until the next elections, and then, as we said, we will see what kind of car would be needed to transport this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-16-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. This also concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, 17. 2., in the context of the votes. I also interrupt this agenda item as well as the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. But I wish everyone a good day. Good-bye.
