ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Violeta Tomić between 19:00 and 21:00, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popota, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko until 13:00, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Mr Matjaž Germany between 16.30 and 21:00, Mr Jožef Horvat between 16:00 and 18:00, Mr. Daniel Krivec, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Primož Hainz between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. and Matjaž Hanžek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, this is the question of Members and Members. Under this item, today three questions from members of the opposition and a question from the ruling coalition will be answered by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miro Cerar. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u2	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! I'm asking the Prime Minister a question about an unstable health situation. That the situation is unstable is also confirmed by the Government by its Health Intervention Act. We can point out that the three areas do not work; first, the waiting lines that have increased in the time of this government, then public procurement, where the situation does not improve and is a direct consequence of the finances. And thirdly, the management and management of hospitals, which also caused the hole that had to be filled. The government argued that last year it was necessary to give the minister time, and now he says that time was too short. Yeah, it's really not enough time, but it's for the patients. In view of the situation, we see that we do have an exceptional health situation which threatens the financial stability of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking questions: Why were the expenditure not already planned in the budget? Did the government not know about the health situation, and how did the government feel about this situation being cured? From which items does the government intend to acquire 136 million to resolve the situation? Will there be a reallocation and where will these funds be seized, in which sector and who will be deprived? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u3	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u4	Thank you very much! Mr. Ambassador, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, I answer your question like this. The state budget for 2017 was drawn up in the second half of 2016 and was then adopted in November 2016 and the Government had not yet had all the relevant information required for immediate action in the field of health, and the creation of the appropriate measures and the necessary resources was not foreseen in the 2017 budget. The intervention law mentioned by you provides that a single transfer of 80% of the expenditure surplus from previous years to 31 years will be provided from the State budget. 12. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred in connection with the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and repealing Council Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EC) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council and Council Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council and Indeed, a single transfer of EUR 136 million is foreseen. Additional commitments for the 2017 budget recognised under the intervention law will be covered after the end of the period of suspension of the implementation of the budget expenditure for the state budget rebalancing at the beginning of October. This will not result in an impact on the implementation of other programmes. In fact, the measure constitutes additional single financial implications or liabilities for the state budget in 2017 following the cash flow, whereas the balance of the sector as a whole will not be affected by the fact that losses in public institutions have already been taken into account annually in their finances. In this context, it will also have no impact on achieving public funding objectives. Let me say that, above all, it has been agreed, and this is important that funds under the intervention law will be received directly by the public health authorities on the basis of a given full and timely role, which is also very important, and it is also important that a review of the use of these funds is ensured. Let me say that this, so to speak, financial hole in health is actually a result of poor practice of certain objective factors and many other things from many past years. But our government has now faced this in some critical phase, when all this has accumulated and it is now our duty, together with you, the respected National Assembly, to resolve and resolve this matter. However, if it has not been done enough or nothing within the mandate of this government, it certainly does not. As you know, in part, we would say, eliminate and guarantee, so we have partially eliminated certain health irregularities, provided certain changes that already affect the quality of health care, and in particular, in 2015 and 2016, we have allocated an additional 72 million euros to the health care system through the higher recognised prices of health services received by the service providers. In addition, we have also earmarked several million euros for a special programme to reduce waiting periods by the end of the year. In short, we have approached to address the issue of the purchase of medical equipment and the purchase of medicines and medical devices. A project of a common public procurement of medicinal products and medical devices was introduced, and in February 2017 a common database of Intravisionor was established. Since time is very short, I have only briefly mentioned some things and explained the main part of the answer to your question regarding the intervention law. But I must say that the commitment to reduce waiting lines remains. The situation is actually far from good, we are aware of it, but it is simply a run on a long track that we must not leave now. I therefore expect from the ministry, all stakeholders, that we will work intensively to improve the health sector, both in terms of reducing waiting times and in optimising the system and in particular in establishing much better control than was established in the past when these bad practices actually took place. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u5	Ambassador Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u6	Thank you. The consequences are already ahead, the funding has been stopped for this year, so there is a direct impact on the budget. Of course, there is now a difference between those hospitals that have done well and those that have created losses. You've spread some kind of safety net and you're allowing this kind of practice. You have explained 80% how and what will be envisaged: What about the 20%? Where do you get 20%? Then the direct loss for this year is 60 million: Where else are you gonna get that 60 million? The second problem is when you set up public orders to regulate; see, in public procurement you have a circuit of public contracts, by renting equipment. The rental of equipment has disintegrated in the last three years and it is direct, not public health, but private sector service. If the United Left is in favour of the public sector, we see that this government is under which the profits are paid to the private sector. I want to know: How are you going to cut this off by avoiding public procurement and hiring equipment? Where will this 136 million go? Will it be about renting equipment, purchasing equipment, covering what was procured through public procurement, and also for those who purchased vascular support and wages? So, it's not clear: Where will you get 60 million this year's loss, where is the extra 20%? It's not clear: Where will this 136 million go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u7	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u8	Just for a little while. The issues have also been addressed in a recent interpretation where, as you know, the Minister of State in this National Assembly has received support for the policy he is leading towards improving public health. Now I cannot answer all these questions in one or two minutes, but they have already been answered at the same time. I can only say that the Ministry of Health is working closely with the Ministry of Finance and, of course, gradually, according to a plan that makes sense and which has also been presented here in the National Assembly, and therefore the intervention law has received support, covering these losses that have occurred in recent years. First of all, it is necessary to cover the most crucial losses that concern suppliers that have arisen in such a way that if we do not cover them now, it would simply cut off the operation in certain health institutions. In short, we are putting out fires where this is absolutely necessary, while at the same time establishing more effective control, we are preventing these bad practices from happening in the future. As we improve the public procurement system, however, gradually but consistently, we also improve the situation that you mentioned when in the past it could have been manipulated in a number of ways in the procurement of equipment, medicines and the like. It's going to be less and less in the future, and in the end, when we're done, I'd say we're going to do it the way we want it to. Of course, it obviously takes more time than we expected. I am also surprised at how many bad practices, irregularities, some past losses have accumulated in this health care. This is how we are: we are here, we are acting decisively, the Minister is continuing her policy, for which she has received support, and this must be a policy that in future such things as in the past they will simply not happen in public procurement, in the use of money or in the management of health institutions. Of course, we have a task ahead of us to shorten waiting lines where I expect that we will succeed in the future more than we did in this period, when this has not actually been successful enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u9	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u10	From the reply of the Prime Minister, it was clear that he did not have enough time to explain the situation. So, I propose that we hold a debate on the subject. We see that in three years, these are also delayed years, nothing has been done in the field of health; even more, waiting types have increased. Where'd he go with the salary money? Thus, you increased your loss when you raised your wages and the key questions were not answered. First: Where will this 136 million go, to whom will this be used? Again for those who were on public money. Then: How are you going to run the entire program? Where will this be shown on the scale of the work of doctors? How will the waiting lines be reduced? How will you do that? Or through public institutions, or will it go to private institutions? Thus, the key questions have not been answered, so I propose that the debate be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u11	Dr. Bojan Dobovšek, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, in the framework of the votes. The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grims, you have the floor to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u12	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! It has been known for about three months that something has happened in Slovenia, something that could not actually happen in a normal, functioning legal democratic country. That through a bank owned by the public, namely the New Ljubljana Bank, it was paid for about a billion dollars, according to some data even for a billion euro of money from the state of Iran, which was then under the embargo due to proliferation – it is said, attempts to acquire weapons of mass destruction. The fact that this money is due to suspicion that it was money laundering. And for the purposes of proliferation, for the purposes of secret services and also for the financing of terrorism. We have carried out an investigation on two commissions, the reports have been discussed by the National Assembly at this meeting and are expected to vote on this today, both of which are expected to receive virtually unanimous support. If that happens, and if that happens, we can say that the National Assembly has done its job. But this task makes sense only if the story has an appropriate legal epilogue. This is said to be a story of responsibility; to investigate things, to investigate in some way, the law enforcement authorities, all the institutions in the country involved, to perform a correctional examination to determine what actually happened, to determine exactly where, when and who had broken the law, to carry out the appropriate procedures in full and, of course, to experience the story as well as the epilogue of the court. However, in order to be able to do so, the first condition is to ensure that appropriate conditions are met so that unhindered investigations are not led by those people who were directly involved in these stories when they took place seven years ago, so that something like this would not happen again, let's say, in the case of the police, when there was no proper report of the prosecution at the conclusion of the investigation at that time, and this is the most normal and legal conduct. It is therefore a matter of question, Mr President of the Government: What are you gonna do? How will you take action to ensure proper investigation and appropriate judicial epilogue? Will you ask people who have been directly involved in this story to leave their positions, their functions, the cities they perform, in order to allow this neutral, actually unhindered, comprehensive and successful investigation? Slovenia is doing this to itself. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u13	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u14	Thank you very much! Dear Member of the Mags. Branko Grimes! First of all, let me answer in principle that the Government I am leading is fully aware of the importance of implementing measures in the field of money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation of nuclear weapons and is aware that all of this must be in line with international standards and European legislation. Therefore, in these three years, when our government is active in this area, we have carried out a number of activities in Slovenia. In 2015, Slovenia carried out its first national risk assessment for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, on the basis of which the Government adopted an Action Plan to address perceived risks at the end of 2016. In October 2016, we prepared a new Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, which replaced the 2008 Act. In addition to transposing European legislation itself, this law has also introduced some of the innovations needed for a more efficient system of prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. In particular, the specific amendment introduced was the granting of inspection powers by the Anti-Money Laundering Office with a view to improving the system of prevention of money laundering and other irregularities in this area I have mentioned; it is said that this is a matter for better control between the debtors and for greater efficiency in the implementation of preventive measures. On this particular issue of yours, as President of the Government at this stage, I will, of course, follow closely the findings of all three competent committees of the National Assembly, as we know that in the National Assembly they are dealing with abuses in the Slovenian banking system, the Commission of Inquiry, including the Commission for the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services, has also been established this year as a special investigative committee led by Member Jani Möderndorfer, the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of alleged money laundering and terrorist financing, nuclear proliferation and financing of foreign intelligence services abroad in the New Ljubljana Bank. That is how I wish, as Prime Minister of the Government, that these Commissions of the National Assembly succeed in their work, so that the competent authorities can also obtain additional information from this source for their actions. However, let me make it very clear that, as Prime Minister of the Government, I am expecting this expectation, and I have also made this very clear as a request to the competent ministries, which, of course, continue to refer them to the competent authorities, that if any irregularities have occurred, money laundering or similar abuses of the banking system or other institutions, this will, of course, have to be discovered immediately and things have to be sanctioned. If it turns out that a person is also specifically responsible for this criminal or otherwise, of course, appropriate procedures will be initiated. So, of course, I absolutely expect the authorities to do their job; what they have done in the past years — especially in the years when these governments I run have not yet been, when I have not actually been a part of the policy — will now become more clear and we will find out what was going on and what was going on. I would say, however, that it is only necessary to stress that the suspicion of money laundering and terrorist financing in the New Ljubljana Bank has not yet been confirmed and rejected by the State Prosecutor's Office, and that I am also waiting for this information and that, of course, as President of the Government, I will continue to keep an eye on the matter and to urge the competent authorities, institutions, where it is my responsibility to carry out my task. As it is said, I believe that the National Assembly will be – I hope it will – and I believe it will be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u15	The Magnificent Messenger. Branko Grims, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u16	Thank you. Look, the National Assembly Commission, both the investigators on the banking system and the security and intelligence control committee I run, have both successfully completed their work. In the KNOVS, by decision of the Commission, we have forwarded all the findings and all the materials which have already been the basis for these findings to the competent authorities, both the police and the Attorney General. This is what the National Assembly is supposed to decide for the investigator today, and according to the forecast, it is expected that this will also be accepted and that these additional material will also go to the right address. Only possible political responsibility can be identified by the National Assembly, of course, within the framework of the committees which have this competence. This is more than that; it is a matter of independent investigation by the competent law enforcement institutions, which must also establish possible criminal liability. And here it is, look, a standard that applies across Europe can be illustrated by the case of Kopp from Switzerland. Since it was only a day of suspicion that the husband of Minister Koppova was involved in the abuse of internal information in a company, a private company, the minister immediately withdrew, in order to allow an independent investigation to be neutral and credible in order to strengthen the confidence of people in institutions in Slovenia – by the way, ordinary people usually say that each country has its own mafia and that the mafia has its own country. Here is an opportunity to enable, by example, this to be done in an appropriate manner and to invite all those involved to withdraw from their functions in order to enable a truly neutral, unhindered investigation, which must be comprehensive and must be such that people will restore confidence in the institutions of the country and the country as a whole. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u17	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I will be very brief because in fact I agree that the investigation, the criminal procedure or any other criminal procedure must be properly carried out. Let me draw attention to the fact that, of course, the State Prosecutor's Office and the State Prosecutor's Office as a whole are independent, i.e. an autonomous law enforcement body. We know that the independence of the judiciary has already been guaranteed in our country since the end. I therefore expect that all these legal conditions will be met in these proceedings, if criminal proceedings are to be conducted. In short, politics is not allowed and will not interfere. I also expect that in all other procedures, when these are to be continued, I would say that, in the light of the examinations, matters will be carried out correctly, in accordance with the law. If they don't, we'll just take action, but that's it. However, I cannot demand more than that the rule of law be implemented as much as possible; what I am doing all the time and what I have been committed to since I entered into politics and will also be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u19	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u20	See, when we discussed the reports, there was also a debate by SMC Members about what was said by the deep country. It is said that someone is past formal decision-making bodies, past what is stated in the Slovenian Constitution, that authority has only the people and that everything else is merely the realization of the forms of this power. So that someone has the power to achieve something like this through the banking system and, on the other hand, to shut down all control mechanisms or reject them so that they are virtually ineffective and that in no sense does the word experience epilogue. Parliament can determine, as I said, political responsibility. Such a debate, as I propose for the National Assembly to take place, is, in my view, an ideal opportunity to speak once in this society about responsibility. Responsibilities not only of those who commit an act but also of all those who commit such acts when they are in breach of the law, when they are unethical, allow or do what is imposed on them by the law or function they perform. The very definition of corruption says that corruption is when you expect any benefit — it can also be a political benefit — but you do not do the work that should be done by law. And in a given case, it's obvious that's what this was all about. This is said to be a decisive debate because it could set the new standards that this country still needs. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that you were once elected to the presidency of the executive branch as President of the most powerful party on the basis of a programme based on ethics, the rule of law and the fight for justice and the rule of law and accountability at all levels. Now is the opportunity to talk about it and to set new standards, that is to say, to apply it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u21	Mag. Branko Grims, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Miha Kordiš, you have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Slovenian free primary schools are unusually expensive for our working families. Slovenian households contribute as much as 12% to the cost of primary school education. By comparison, in Croatia this percentage is half a percent, in Austria a good 3%, in Italy a good 4%. In addition, education costs are increasing faster than other costs of living. The association of parents' assets points to these problems and highlights the following costs of learning materials, without textbooks. In primary school in the lower classes of up to €170, at the appropriate level of €150 to €200, the situation is, of course, even worse if the cost of school bags, other equipment, school meals, excursions are not counted. And the poor employees, those on the minority, unemployed, of course, cannot afford this cost at all. NGOs that organize the collection of needs point out that more families are turning to them each year. The profession adds that there remains a large, invisible, vulnerable group of families with children who, because of the stigma of taking this help, do not even afford it. See, it is unacceptable for humanitarian organisations to act as social states, and it is also unacceptable that there are families that cannot provide school children with conditions for inclusion in the education system. It is quite bizarre, however, that the largest coalition party in the free time feats around for pencils, instead of doing its job in its time of service, is to support and take measures to reduce poverty, to ensure decent employment, wages, measures to finally enable everyone to have a truly accessible and free primary and secondary education. Instead, humanitarian action is preferred. For this reason, I ask the Prime Minister: What will you do to ensure that families, even families with employed parents, no longer have to receive school supplies for their children by such and other charitable organizations and actions? I'm asking: How will you, as Prime Minister of the Government and President of the largest coalition party, ensure the accessibility and freeness of primary and secondary education? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u23	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear Member Miha Kordish, first of all, let me say that the textbook is the only teaching material that the law defines as such and the teaching funds were established in the 1990s precisely because of the accessibility of textbooks to all students and students. These funds were initially renewed by the contribution of parents to the part-time textbook rental, and gradually this cost was taken over by the State. As a result of the economic crisis and the reduction of funding, funds have been beginning to plunge since 2009 into crisis, and worn-out and even invalid textbooks have been standing in schools. Even with the redesign of school curricula, children could not be provided with appropriate new textbooks. This is why the government has gradually provided funding to schools after these years that they have completely renovated the textbook funds and, today, in 2017, schools have a completely renovated and functioning set of existing textbooks. This year, the government presented a new textbook management model with a special rule, which will provide a stable, sustainable and sustainable textbook management model for the coming years. Thus, for the first time since this year, schools have autonomously had the resources of the school fund, which they receive according to predictable and stable criteria according to the number of students enrolled, so the schools themselves decide to switch sets. After that, first-class students and first-class students are also provided free of charge with textbooks with work volumes and working textbooks; thirdly, the rent of textbooks for all pupils remains free. Schools thus become responsible for long-term teaching policy. Of course, the government maintains a review of the learning problem at several points. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport will publish labour volumes prices in support of school selection at the annual level. We are already seeing tangible progress here, as the Partnership of Assets of the Worlds of Parents of Slovenia, mentioned by you, notes that the average total purchase price of work volumes in primary schools has gradually declined over the last five years. This trend has certainly been strongly affected by the regulation that parents also apply to each school to the list of work volumes for each class. Furthermore, within the framework of the European Structural Funds of the consortiums of universities, research institutions and schools, the Ministry has allocated half a million euros for the project of quality analysis of Slovenian textbooks and, of course, this analysis of the situation will provide further reliable guidelines for the design and monitoring of the quality of textbooks in the future. The Government has also authorised the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia to monitor the quality of work volumes in terms of the achievement of learning objectives and curricula and to make recommendations in this area at the annual level. With regard to secondary schools, a traditionally successful system of teaching funds is maintained, whereby students and students rent textbooks for a third of the purchase price, while less wealthy ones can rent textbooks for free in most schools. The country is also systematically concerned about the creation of textbooks and work materials for vocational and vocational education programmes where, due to low demand, publishers have insufficient interest in the preparation and publication of textbooks. So let me say that this comes from other activities, which I cannot just cover here, that this government is doing well for public education, that of course the gradual parents are being burdened – as I said at the time of crisis, this burden has been increased, they are now being burdened – and that it is going in the direction of making it easier for children, families, and parents, on these matters that you mentioned. So this is where we're making progress. In addition, you mentioned that the SMC Party is doing humanitarian work on its own time for the benefit of children, schools. I think that's good. Of course, the government is doing its job, as I said, making progress, things are moving in the right direction, I've given the data. But if a customer, like the Modern Centre Party, when you said, is doing humanitarian work this afternoon, I really can't see anything wrong with that. On this, I mean, we can all be proud and just want more of it, while of course the Government I run has to carry out its tasks for the benefit of education, for the benefit of children and families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u25	Ambassador Miha Kordish, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u26	Thank you, Chairman. The Coalition is so well aware of public education that it allocates extra funds to private primary schools. And if it is really as great as Mr President of the Government, why does his parent have to fetrate for pencils and school supplies for school-bound children? See, the Ministry's actions, this funding of textbooks, other materials for the first grade of primary school, this is spitting into the sea, and this is a simple pir action. On average, parents spend at least the first grade on materials compared to other classes. Where's the other eight years? And high school, and high school! We are not talking here about systemic measures, but we are talking about extremely weak measures, for which a certain part of the profession warns that they can even be harmful to upper-class students, because they simply move resources from higher to lower-class within the textbook fund. Next, as regards the autonomy of schools in managing the school fund – I think what can schools do in such situations? Autonomously, they may decide not to use teaching materials. That's a lot of autonomy! Since 2018, €3 million has been foreseen for textbook funds, which is still about €2.5 million less than in 2008 and 2009. And even in the future, parents will bear much of the financial burden of providing materials. Is that why you did it again? What will you do at systemic level to eliminate poverty and for all equally accessible and free education and when? We have three years, four years of economic growth, the economic crisis has ended, social not. Only the rich, privileged, financial aristocrats, barons, renters profit, for these people the crisis has ended and not for the working families. And you are concerned with political measures to keep it that way in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u27	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u28	Thank you very much! Now you have slightly expanded this debate to the whole and so forth issue of social affairs. Let me just say, it's not true of your claim you made at the end. This government is still working for, I would say, the poor, including those in difficult social distress and situations. Of course, after this government has pulled the country, along with other stakeholders, out of the crisis, we need to understand that this process is not simple. It is simply not possible to provide everyone with a certain situation overnight, but we are getting closer and closer. As I said, we work in the field of education, we improve the system, we go in a direction that is more favourable for families, for children, for schoolchildren and others. As far as I'm concerned, you said extra funds for private schools and the like. This is where we follow the law. The laws have been passed, the laws have been passed by the National Assembly, the Government has to implement them, and as long as it implements them, I don't see the possibility of you reading this to us. However, there are also some possible developments that will still be under discussion, and above all I would say that during the time of this government and Minister Maja Makovec Brenčič, the Government has established a model of sustainability and sustainability in the provision of editorial textbook policy and continue from here to good schools, for the benefit of children, schoolchildren, students and others. That's why your claims don't hold you back. Again, let me say if the Modern Centre Party, which you mentioned again, is carrying out humanitarian activities for the good of children, for the good of schoolchildren, I do not see anything wrong; on the contrary, I think it is a good example. I wish there was as much as possible, of course, under the assumption that the Government – and this is what the Government is doing – is doing its work in the best possible context. With this work in this direction, we will continue in the good schools, in the well-being of the child, and of course also of the parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u29	Miha Kordiš, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. As I said in the introduction, free primary education for Slovenian working families is unusually expensive. These costs in the case of a family with multiple children can increase by as much as €600 per year. And how does the President of the Government act? By giving his client and his client fehtars around for pencils and school supplies, and during business hours, giving rich tax gifts for €80 million a year, he gives gifts to the military-industrial complex for 200 million patriotic purchases. Meanwhile, there are 280 thousand people living in our country under the risk of poverty, of whom 50,000 are poor workers; they say they are still in poverty. And 46,000 children. One third of households are hard to come by during the month with their income, and a poor half of these working households are unable to afford unexpected expenditure at all. In such a social picture, given that we already have growth for 3, 4 years, your government should cut across various pianist tricks and provide real public and free primary education, including secondary and high school education. And you didn't do it. And you're running out of time until the end of your term. For patriots only, you will pay enough money to spend a thousand euros for every school-bound child in this country, or 4 thousand 500 euros for every child living under the risk of poverty. You have had a great opportunity to propose measures to support them, to come alone with them to this national assembly, which would share the positive effects of economic growth in a fair way to go through this money to eradicate poverty, to ensure equal access to education for all. In the light of the information I have provided earlier, in view of the difficulties faced by many households in their day-to-day struggle for survival and when their children are enrolled in primary education, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this issue. And once for a change, it also brings a smart decision that will address the payability of our primary school education and ensure that it will actually become free; indeed, from the first pencil to the last workbook for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u31	Miha Kordish, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly today in the framework of the vote. You have the floor to question the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u32	Thank you. Nice greetings to all colleagues, the President of the Government and the Council of Ministers! For the fourth year in a row, economic growth is showing in our country, international institutions are constantly praising us, the prospects for further positive trends in raising gross social product are very positive. Savings measures from the ZUJF are being phased out, and of course I am most interested in one area, and this is: When are they gonna quit your pension? In the area of pension coordination, savings have left a strong mark. The pension has started to have a drastic impact since 2010, which is significantly earlier than we adopted the Public Finance Balance Act. Since then, pensions have not been harmonised and this means that they are actually lower by more than 8% in these years, in particular by 8.7%. In this way they only adjusted by 2.9%, they should be 11.6%. It is clear that all freezings, all pension interventions in a way that has not been coordinated, as provided for by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, have resulted in a permanent reduction in the pension of all pensioners. Of course, I have to exempt those pensioners who had a pension of less than 500 euros and we have actually raised their pension in the fights of 500 euros this year. Mr President, please tell the pensioners: Will they ever get paid all this manna of their hard-earned pensions, or will their difference of unfulfilled reconciliation ever be paid at all? Now there's something else about a decent pension. It is clear to all of us that, among other things, the pension is a reflection of wages, and because we have low wages, of course, there are also low pensions. The minimum wage is €613, then we can imagine how much this worker, who deserves under the poverty line, will then have pensions. Can we imagine that? Very hard. That's why I'm asking you a question: As Prime Minister of the Government, what will you do to make wages and pensions more dignified in our country?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u33	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Dear Ambassador Franz Jursha! As you know, we have been working in the Government since the first day of our mandate to create a fiscal space that will allow the payment of rights to all beneficiaries to a full extent. However, this is linked to the structural reforms that will be necessary for the long-term sustainability of our public finances, as prescribed by our constitutional, legislative and regulatory framework at European Union level. We are releasing austerity measures, but they must be released with caution and gradually replaced by long-term systemic measures and reforms that will be adapted to the current economic and demographic conditions. As you know, we are already doing this in the field of public sector and household transfers. With regard to pensions, the harmonisation of pensions this year and also in 2016 was even higher than the planned regular harmonisation. This year, the annual allowance was remunerated to all pensioners and its full payment is scheduled for next year at the level prior to the entry into force of the ZUJF. All pension restrictive measures are thus expected to be completely abolished by next year. Let me tell you something else. In fact, we decided on the coalition yesterday, so the government coalition decided that in 2018, at the beginning of the year, we would also coordinate pensions, and then, somewhere in April or somewhere else, we would make extraordinary adjustments to pensions. That's how we move forward here to help the pensioners. With regard to the second question, I should say that, even in eliminating the measures applicable to public servants, payments have returned to the previous level without a charge for the savings period and are the same as transfers to the individual and the household. Indeed, we are in a period when our economic growth even exceeds the average growth in the European Union, thus slowly reducing the development backlog for the European Union's average development, but despite the second highest growth rate in the EU, which is an achievement, we will still need at least a few years to reach the pre-crisis level of gross domestic product. In the current period of high economic activity and high income, the state budget and the sector continue to show deficits. We are reducing this deficit, but even though we are going in the right direction, we can only do this gradually and by taking the whole system into account. Thus, it is still not possible to release immediately all austerity measures, and even less to think that, at least from today's point of view, we could bring back what was saved during the crisis. However, I believe that with the development we are making with this progress, including in the area of pensions, we are going forward with coordination and in another way that we will gradually come to a situation where it will be much better for the pensioners. In the Government, all coalition parties are aware of the difficult social situation of pensioners, of course other categories of the population, as well as especially pensioners, especially those with the lowest pensions who have worked full-time. That is why, as you know, we have already amended the pension law and this amendment will enter into force in October 2017 and will allow all full-time pensioners at least EUR 500 per month. Let me sum it up. We're improving and it's improving. I believe it will continue. The government is committed to this, and this is where development is going. We create an attractive business environment, we invite foreign investors, we encourage domestic and other economists, we increase employment, we reduce unemployment, we raise productivity, we also strive to raise added value, we invest in education and science more and so on and so on. All of this will also bring about some development in the coming years with more prosperity, and then more will be possible to distribute to the pensioners. This is what I am personally trying to do, and this is what the government coalition is trying to do, and I believe that is what we all want. So that would be my answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u35	Member of Parliament, Mr Franz Jurša, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u36	Thank you. President, I'm partly satisfied with your answer. Of course, in one part I would like to get more concrete or concrete answers. In the last period we read bomb headlines in newspapers, Slovenia sets records, gross social product after nine years again record, real estate and car sales are booming – for some, excellent export results, tourism is literally booming – workers have 680 euros in tourism wages there, economic growth is the biggest since the crisis, and on the other hand, I warn because I know that you know these results, but still that you will be able to think more thoroughly about what I am thinking and of course in our parliamentary group. The number of recipients of the minimum wage is 35,000, of which 26 are in the private sector, 9,000 in the public sector. The average pension, the average pension is 495 euros, 495 euros. 170 old pensioners who receive pensions below the poverty line. 285 pensioners, all pensioners, receive under the poverty threshold. The average wage in Slovenia is EUR 1 000, but the average age pension is EUR 620, the average pension is EUR 495, the minimum wage is EUR 613 – below the poverty threshold. Thank God that every day is less unemployed, some professions are even lacking. This is joyful and encouraging, which also means a greater inflow into the pension register and also all the other cashiers. But all this information is an alarm that something has to change in our country, and of course the role of the President is important.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u37	President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Miro Cerar, you have the floor to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Let me do it again in a more graphic way. This country, in a crisis that began there in 2009, sank a little earlier. It sank not only because it was hit by the global crisis, but because bad practices, artificial bankruptcy, abuse of workers were prevalent in Slovenia, I would say, the irrational management of the public sector, the irrational management of state property. Everything went wrong. That is why I also decided to enter politics because I wanted to turn this trend around with some new energy. Mr Jurša, this trend has been reversed, this trend is turning and we are going after all the indicators for the better. All economic, financial, including social indicators, social indicators, are getting better; unfortunately, slowly. I too find it hard to see such information or to see people in distress when they have too low a pension, when they have too low a salary to live a truly decent life. But at this time, in this mandate, in this government's mandate, things are constantly improving, as you yourself mentioned in part, you could also mention other positive information. This trend must continue, I cannot say otherwise. Let's go calmly, let's move on in a stable way, so I don't allow this old practice to come back up again, I won't allow some old political mentality to happen, we have to move forward with new energy, and we need to do exactly what you say: more employment, more people who are successful in the economy, more investors of good, more work. This will also bring more social prosperity to all people, including pensioners. But we can't share if it's not enough. And when we fell years ago, we fell so low that we did not get back together now, as I had said before, to the level where we were then — not only because of the global crisis but also because of our own stupidity. Now we learn from these mistakes, and we must not repeat this nonsense. I deeply agree with you that the government must have compassion, obedience for these most sensitive segments of the population. But until we raise the whole economy even more, we will raise the whole country even more, so that we can be successful, we will not be able to help them, nor will we. We're already helping them. We're moving on. Here, too, I mentioned earlier, regarding the pensioners, I could point to others, improve the situation peacefully, but stable and go in this direction. I hope we can work together on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u39	Mr Franc Jurša, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u40	Given that we estimate that the problem of that part of pensions, as I mentioned earlier, is 8.7%, which the pensioners have never received, we will look at in our parliamentary group and the party, so that in the coming years – four, five years – this deficiency will also be eliminated. Of course, we are also concerned whether the Government will prepare that proposal, the formula for calculating the minimum wage it promised on the occasion of one of the parliamentary groups proposing a solution related to the minimum wage. Mr President, given that I have run out of time earlier, I will now end by saying that I will not require further discussion, but I wanted to report this to both Members of Parliament and the general public.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u41	You won't ask. I gave you my word only for a procedural proposal, not for an explanation of views. That is why I must certainly remind you of this, and I think this time you deserve a reminder in the positive sense of the word. Really please, I was even more afraid that I would really have to put this matter to a vote then, so I have to admit that whatever it is. [[…]] [[…]] To the Prime Minister, we can all join in thanking him for the answers he has given. I hereby end this item of the agenda, which we will continue by voting on the proposals for conclusions today in the context of the vote. We're moving on to 26. This is on the proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the operations of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period July 2017–December 2018. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Dr Mir Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to further explain the proposal for a declaration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u42	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union by the end of 2018. This document outlines Slovenia's fundamental views over a period of important decisions that will in many ways define the future of the European Union. Guidelines for time, which many see as a window of opportunity to move towards stronger, more resistant and more successful integration. Changes are needed, as the new situation in Europe and the world should have been adapted. No country is an island, we are part of a wider community and civilization. Therefore, despite the continued peace and economic success of the home, it is difficult to be calm and satisfied when global relations are fundamentally changing, when our wider neighbourhood is increasingly unstable and people are forced to leave their homes in a mass manner and when we are finally confronted with the increasing consequences of climate change. In the last decade, Europe has been marked by the state of permanent crisis management. But in this intense period, we have learned a lot. A number of high-quality leaps have also been made. The economy has now recovered strongly, optimism is on the rise, but of course that is not enough. It is time to learn more from past mistakes and set the way forward in order to be better prepared for future major challenges. That is why we have put at the forefront of this declaration, 11th in a row, since Slovenia became a member of the European Union, the fundamental objectives that were unitedly agreed at the summit in Rome at the end of March: security, economic growth in relation to environmental and social care and the promotion of the European Union's leadership role as a defender of democratic acquisitions in the world. These objectives are a logical combination based on our fundamental values and the ability to adapt Europe to rapid changes in the world. The opposition to development that we are facing is a challenge that is not enough to think simply traditionally in the trenches of past political practices. We all require socially responsible and innovative thinking, respect for the rule of law and the provision of fundamental democratic units. And that is also the essence of the European link we belong to. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the challenging challenges ahead, we want to look to the future of the European Union with courage and optimism. Over the past year, European society has responded to threats of disintegration and the resurgence of protectionist aspirations in the world by clearly increasing community membership and re-emerging faith in the European Union. As has been shown several times in the history of the Union, the greatest challenges and challenges can also be an excellent opportunity for needed movements and a new impetus. In fact, we have been discussing the future of the European Union for several years, and the National Assembly is very active in this. For a long time, the government has been conducting a wide-ranging dialogue with citizens and the professional public, beginning with the aim of finding a more effective response to economic and social responses, then in response to new migratory and security pressures on our society, and not least in response to the UK decision to withdraw from the Union and consequently to seek a more effective organisation of the future European Union. And we will continue our dialogue in the future. The debate on the future of Europe is also intense in other Member States and European institutions. Especially in recent months, it has become an important meeting point at the highest level. We too, from the visit of the President of the European Council, the President and the First Vice-President of the European Commission, the prime ministers of Malta, Sweden, Luxembourg, Belgium and Estonia until the visit of Italian counterpart Gentiloni, who visited Ljubljana earlier this month. This intensification of the debate is due to the fact that there are still imbalances in many areas in the Union, which requires even greater joint efforts to address them. In addition, the security situation has changed. The Union is exposed to pressure from mass migration, crises in the neighbourhood and, last but not least, the digital revolution, which changes not only the way we communicate, but the whole economy and life in general, so we urgently need common and comprehensive solutions that will enable the Union to succeed in the future and strengthen its credibility vis-à-vis the citizens of the European Union and third countries. In this regard, I am convinced that we must soon move from a number of discussions to decisions on how to proceed and focus on concrete solutions for the benefit of citizens. In doing so, we must continue to address key substantive issues. Institutional solutions, which have been widely discussed over the last period, will then certainly follow. We need to raise social standards across the Union, modernise social subsystems, improve the competitiveness of our industry, build a legal framework for free and fair trade and the operation of foreign investors, manage migratory flows and take the lead in combating climate change. It is also necessary to identify solutions to enhance the democratic and effectiveness of the Union, as well as to raise its confidence and visibility in the world. Above all, we must, and here I am, and will continue to be very persistent, bear in mind, in all this, that, together, we can only be stronger and more effective in behalf of citizens, that dialogue and willingness are needed for the common good, and that we do not deviate from, at any cost, the fundamental values and principles on which the European Union is founded and on which we must insist and be proud. In this context, we will be particularly active in the direction set out by President Juncker in his annual address, saying that we are a Union of values, where the rule of law is not a choice, but an obligation, and that (I quote): "being a part of the Union based on the rule of law also means accepting and respecting the final judgments of the courts". This framework also includes respect for the arbitral tribunal's decision on the border between Slovenia and Croatia and its implementation, since this is not a bilateral issue, but rather a fundamental issue of respect for the rule of law and the law of the European Union. It is not to be forgotten that the arbitration agreement is directly linked to Croatia's accession to the Union and that it played an important role in the compromise at that time also by the European Commission. It appears that it will play an important role in the future. As the present declaration shows, our principled orientation on the future of Europe is clear. Slovenia wants a stable, connected, united and people-friendly European Union. In doing so, we want to contribute constructively to its further development and thus remain in its most related work. But it is important to know that solidarity and openness to change are also part of our efforts. One of the reasons for the need to renegotiate Europe's future is the UK's decision to leave the European Union. However, negotiations on the so-called brexit must under no circumstances prevail over the debate on the future of the Union. Negotiations are not and will not be easy, although we are well prepared for them and our priorities are known. I hope that in the coming weeks, despite the slow pace of the negotiations so far, there will be sufficient progress on the basis of which we will also be able to discuss the future comprehensive relationship of the European Union with the United Kingdom. As I said before, our leader in this process is a famous Slovenian river: Clean accounts, good friends. In the light of these challenges, next spring the debate on the common funding of European policies after 2020 will also be intensified. This debate will be very complex, which is why we have already started preparations for negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework. The fact is that changes will have to take place in this area. On the one hand, radical changes in the financing of existing policies cannot be sustainable and, of course, ambitions and the new challenges of the Union will have to be adequately supported. More concrete views on these issues will be shared when the European Commission presents a proposal for a new multiannual financial framework. Dear Members, allow me to present four other priorities for our work in the European Union in the following year and a half, which are directly linked to the objectives of the Rome Declaration. The latter are: first, a secure Europe and a safe Slovenia; second, a successful and sustainable Europe and Slovenia; thirdly, a social Europe and a social Slovenia; and fourthly, a stronger Europe in the world. In today's situation, there is a security dimension at the forefront, which concerns a number of areas of action and is a prerequisite for the success of the remaining objectives, so we will continue to focus on intensive work on the European Agenda for Security in the coming period. In this context, it has proved crucial to integrate internal and external security instruments in an integrated manner, to increase the effectiveness of existing instruments and to develop short- and long-term policies to prevent and combat terrorism and to prevent radicalisation and extremism. These policies should not only focus on urgent measures, but should also provide for longer-term softer approaches, among which are the most important education and education in the spirit of tolerance and intercultural dialogue. In our efforts to achieve these objectives at European Union level, our contribution is particularly crucial in the Western Balkans area, where we are committed to closer cooperation and the further provision of support and assistance to the countries of this region. As a responsible member of the Schengen area, Slovenia shall make a visible and identifiable contribution to ensuring the security of the external borders of the European Union. We will continue to advocate a return to the consistent implementation of Schengen legislation. A prerequisite for achieving this objective is the full operationality of the European Border and Coast Guard and the unity and participation of Member States in the comprehensive resolution of the migration challenge. For only by integrating migration into other policies such as development and humanitarian aid will we be able to contribute effectively to addressing the causes of migration. In doing so, it is crucial to strengthen assistance to countries of origin and transit in particular in order to prevent illegal immigration and to provide legal and organised opportunities for entry into the European Union, of course within our realistic capacities for decent integration of immigrants. The key lesson of the past few years, when we have sought solutions to overcome the economic crisis, is that economic growth and competitiveness must be addressed in close connection with the preservation and strengthening of the social state and with sustainable development. This is a very difficult task, but we really have no choice. It is not only about the survival and well-being of the present generation, but also of future generations, and in particular in this regard, concrete measures must be taken to help young people find suitable employment and actively engage in decision-making processes and, on the other hand, to enable older people to live actively and with dignity their age. These are important challenges that we will also discuss at the November social summit in Sweden. In this context, it is also necessary to seek the best means of greater convergence and thus the stability of Europe, for a solid and resilient economic and monetary union, for strengthening its social dimension, for reducing the differences between countries and regions, and for maintaining and strengthening the common space for the movement of goods, services and capital and for the movement of people. In doing so, we must be more open and be able to listen to the solutions that may seem too bold to us right now. As I said in the introduction, in today's situation, thinking simply traditional is not enough. We need to make better use of different social potentials and be visionaries, otherwise we will be lag behind other parts of the increasingly changing world. Respected, weeks and months ahead will be a good opportunity for a serious agreement on a concrete plan for a more united, stronger and more effective union. The first opportunity for this will already be at the meeting of the leaders of the Member States of the European Union in Tallinn by the end of this week. I hope and believe that the next 18 months will be well exploited and that, no later than spring 2019, we will create a vision of a stronger, more effective and well-being of people targeted by the European Union. You, honourable Members and Members, are also an important interlocutor in this process, so more detailed views on the future of the European Union and its financing in the coming weeks will be addressed in the relevant committees of the National Assembly. Dear Members, Slovenia is an important part of the European Union and Europe in general. A lot of people recognize that. We are not aware of what we know and what we have achieved, and we must also contribute confidently and responsibly to the building of the future Union in the future. In doing so, we must maintain the strength of its foundations, because the European Union will be democratic, legal and social or will not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u43	The proposal for a declaration was addressed as competent working bodies by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. To present the report of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I give the floor to Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Fellow Members, fellow Members, Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly! The Committee on European Union Affairs is held at its 137th meeting. 9. 2017 as the competent committee considered the proposal for a declaration submitted by the Government for consideration. Within a set time limit, the amendments to the proposal for a declaration were tabled by Mr Matej Tašner Vatovec and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food to the chapter Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Food. At the Committee's own meeting, a proposal was also tabled by Ambassador Mitje Horvat to the Committee's amendment to the Environment chapter, sub-chapter Water. Mr Iztok Mirošič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, gave an additional explanation. In accordance with Article 5 of the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, the Government must report at least once a year to the National Assembly on the situation in the European Union and the situation of Slovenia in it. In doing so, it is essential that the proposal for current cases contributes to the transparent functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in which Slovenia represents its interests. The Declaration is a broader framework for drawing up the views of the Republic of Slovenia on EU acts that government representatives represent in their daily work in EU institutions. The proposal for a declaration was prepared and adopted by the Government before the expiry of the previous declaration and has already taken into account the programme of the new Trio Presidencies, which was published in June 2017. The new proposal for a declaration takes into account the work programme of the European Commission for 2017 and the 18-month programme of the Trio Presidencys of the EU Council, namely Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria, and the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, entitled Continue work on the strategic agenda. Before the debate, the rapporteur is the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and the Magi. Bojan Krajnc presented the opinions of these working bodies on the proposal for a declaration. The opinion on the declaration was presented by the President of the Commission, Dr Janvit Golob, on behalf of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs in the State Council. These working bodies of the National Assembly and the Commission of the State Council support the proposal for a declaration. Otherwise, the Committee received reports from all the working bodies of the National Assembly, which the proposal for a declaration dealt with in terms of its competence and also supported it. The amendments were discussed, and the Government also identified themselves at the meeting until the proposed amendments. The Committee did not adopt the amendments proposed by Mr Mate Tašner Vatovec, and the Committee adopted the following amendments to the proposal for a declaration, namely the chapter Agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition in the sub-chapter of the Economy and the section Environment, sub-chapter Water. After the debate and vote on the amendments, the Committee on European Union Affairs voted on all parts of the proposal for a declaration from the point of view of the Committee's competence. The amendments adopted are included in the updated Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the June 2017–December 2018 withdrawal, prepared by the competent committees and forming an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u45	In order to present the report of the Committee, I also give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy of Magi. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Government and others present! The Committee on Foreign Policy is at its 93rd session. 9. 2017 as the competent committee considered the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period July 2017–December 2018 to be adopted by the National Assembly pursuant to Article 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly 22. 6. 2017 submitted to the Government for its consideration. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, State Secretary Iztok Mirošič, Ministry of Defence, Head of the Sector for Euro-Atlantic Integration mag. Igor Vah, and other government representatives. Mr Iztok Mirošič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, provided an additional explanation of the proposal for a declaration. First of all, he presented some of the priority areas concerning the guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the Union, which were presented on the national working bodies. He stressed that the area of the common foreign and security policy is very unpredictable because of the acute and changing situation in the European neighbourhood and around the world. Slovenia will strive for a Union where citizens will feel safe. It will also seek to strengthen the role of the European Union in the international community and an integrated approach to contemporary challenges and threats in the implementation of the global strategy. He pointed out that the Republic of Slovenia would continue to support a credible enlargement strategy of the European Union, but it must broaden its action towards the sustainable development of unstable areas and a rapid and effective response to humanitarian crises, and in particular the root causes of migration must be addressed. The Defence Committee considered, as the parent working body, the proposal for a declaration at its 16th session. 9. 2017. The opinion was presented by the Vice-President of the Committee, Benedict Kopmeyer. The Commission for International Relations and European Affairs of the Council of State addressed the proposal for a declaration at its 86th meeting. 9. 2017 and delivered an opinion supporting the proposal for a declaration. In the debate, several members of the Committee pointed out that the proposal for a declaration did not define current issues such as the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the EU, the next Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the EU, the judgment of the arbitral tribunal on the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia and the related respect for international law. The proposal for a declaration should not address current developments in the international community, such as the issue of the safety of citizens or terrorism. Support was expressed for the enlargement of the European Union to the Western Balkans and the need to address the causes of migration. It's a Magnificent message. Alenka Bratušek expressed disappointment that the proposal for a declaration does not specifically contain the requirement of the Republic of Slovenia to expect Member States to exercise the rule of law. It proposed that the Committee adopt a decision supplementing the proposal for a declaration, from which, in addition to respect for international law, the request of the Republic of Slovenia for action and assistance by the other Member States with regard to the implementation of the judgment of the arbitral tribunal will also be recorded. The Secretary of State explained that the proposal for a declaration was drawn up before the judgment of the arbitral tribunal and therefore does not contain a substantive definition. Regarding brexit, he said that the negotiations were only at the beginning; otherwise, there is still a desire in the United Kingdom to work closely with the European Union. He stressed that the Republic of Slovenia was actively involved in discussions on the future of the European Union at all levels. The Secretary of State explained that preparations for the Slovenian Presidency of the EU Council are under way in the second half of 2021. A draft human resources plan has been adopted and the Presidency has been adopted to represent a whole government project, not just the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Regarding migration, he also highlighted the importance of cooperation with partner countries. In connection with terrorism, he said that the EU's joint action is crucial to addressing these challenges. He also drew attention to the division of the European country into the north and the south, as the former represent financial rigour and others face financial challenges and issues. The distribution of European countries to the east and west is also detectable. With regard to the inclusion of the text of the judgment of the arbitral tribunal in the proposal for a declaration, the Secretary of State stressed that the existing text already highlights the doctrine of respect for international judgments and international law on pages 5, 17 and 70. Following the discussion, the committee adopted the proposal for a declaration with 9 votes in favour and 0 against, which falls within its competence. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u47	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, other representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! 60 years ago, Europe's ideal fathers decided to connect the continent with the power of law, not with the power of weapons. Indeed, I repeat to the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker, the rule of law in the European Union is not a choice, the rule of law is mandatory. The European Union stands or falls under the rule of law. Europe was created for peace, but it was not created for peace, it was not created for stagnation. Helmut Kohl and Jacques Delors taught us that Europe only thrives when it is bold. On the single market, on the Schengen area, on the single currency of the euro, many initially viewed utopian unrealistic dreams, and yet these three bold projects have been realized and become part of our daily lives. Even now is not the time to be overly careful. We have begun to repair the European house and we must finish our work while the weather is still beautiful, as Mr Juncker called us all in his speech on the situation in the Union on 13 September. Today we are considering a declaration on the orientation and functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for a half-year period from July of this year to the end of next year. Emphasis in New Slovenia is given on the operation. It is very important how we are working, how effective we are, how active we, the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in various institutions, are. And I would not like to see the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2008 and take over the euro 1. 1. 2007 was the culmination of our work in the institutions of the European Union. It was, and it was supposed to be just a bouncing board. Whether we have really jumped into the institutions of the European Union since then is, of course, a question. And the coalition agreement contains very promising ideas or plans. The Foreign Policy chapter states that a key foreign policy orientation will be to restore credibility and strengthen the foreign policy visibility of the country and of all our people at home and around the world, both to protect and represent our interests in the international space and the European Union and to promote and create different opportunities. Within the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia will make more active and credible use of the opportunities offered by membership. Whether or not we have realized this is, of course, a question. In Novi Slovenije we have been constructively involved in the drafting of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, which we adopted on 10 July 2015 in this National Assembly. The National Assembly also adopted the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, with a large majority, have decided to become a member of the European Union, which for the Republic of Slovenia represents a fundamental value and political framework for ensuring prosperity and fundamental rights, and membership in NATO, which constitutes a fundamental framework for ensuring national security. In New Slovenia, we have repeatedly stressed that there is no alternative to Slovenia; for Slovenia, the only choice is the European Union, the family of countries and nations. And here, of course, we all expose only or only the rule of law, at least in this last period. We add that freedom, equal opportunities and, yes, the rule of law must be three principles on which it will be based more and more united, stronger and more democratic the European Union. And if we are talking about the rule of law, then it is an extraordinary opportunity for this moment for this government and this coalition to deal with those who have washed one billion euros in the state bank. When those responsible are brought before the hand of justice with names and surnames, this will be the first government in this country, and thus this coalition and this government will also deserve great recognition. I'm sorry to overstep your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u49	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! It would be difficult to find better evidence of irreversibility, ideual emptiness and unconditional serviceability of the government coalition to power centres in the European Union. It would be difficult to find it more than in this declaration that we are considering today. Thanks to this declaration, Slovenia will continue to follow blindly the most powerful European countries in their efforts to actively introduce free market mechanisms or introduce new markets into all social times. But of course it's nothing new. Such a service policy is a constant of Slovenia's relations with the European Union. The latest aspect of such action in EU institutions is the adoption of a trade-investment agreement with Canada, Ceta. In the National Assembly, we made commitments regarding this agreement, to which Slovenia is prepared to give up, what is acceptable to us and what is not. We have talked about this several times on various committees, and we have listened to the high-year words of Minister Restovalski and also the President of the National Assembly on what we will not agree on in this agreement. Finally, we received a rotten deal that did not take into account practically any of the decisions taken. Our ruling coalition has agreed to this silent head. Last week, Ceta, with virtually all its disputed provisions, came into force temporarily. The government in the EU institutions did not represent the interests of Slovenia, nor did it represent the interests of the people and the environment. Last but not least, it did not take into account the interests of the Slovenian economy when accepting the Cete. At the very least, it represented the interests of those workers and workers living on the social floor. What she represented was the interests of German capital. The declaration, which should be referred to as a declaration on passive smoking to the institutions of the European Union, says that this government will continue to represent these interests. More specifically, it will defend the view that environmental protection remains subject to capital interests, that it will continue to strive to maintain the ambitious objectives of reducing greenhouse gas missions at European level and, of course, to maximum discharges for our own national emissions. When adopting trade agreements, it will not seek to maintain labour, agricultural and social standards and, of course, to protect the environment, taking into account the law of Slovenia and the European Union. What bothers us the most is that the Government will strive to ensure that the free market suffers as little as possible at the expense of preventing social dumping. This is most evident in the chapter which speaks of Slovenia's positions towards liberalisation of road transport. It's a sector where workers are already living on miserable wages and fine working conditions. The last proof of this was a recent sentence in Arriva. Further liberalisation of road transport will only make the situation worse, especially by increasing the pressure on already poor wages. This will be directly the responsibility of the Modern Centre, Desus and the Anti-Social Democrats. In Levica we have tried to address all these problems with the amendments, which would at least slightly improve the declaration. The Coalition has categorically rejected all our proposals and thanks to them, Slovenia will continue to be a German servant in the EU institutions. We can't do this in Levica and we won't do it, so we're going to vote against the declaration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u51	The text is addressed to Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Vice President. Hello again, all present! This time, the proposal for a declaration is, as mentioned above, the eleventh in a row, so I am convinced that it is a good time to look back and assess the impact of previous declarations and achievements of Slovenia, while at the same time a good opportunity to look at the common European future and the situation of Slovenia in the European Union, as there are many changes at EU level that have a profound impact on the development of Slovenia and the Union as a whole. The proposal for declarations, as it has always been, highlights the priorities and key policy orientations that Slovenia will follow in its further operation in the institutions of the European Union in the next 18 months. Otherwise, we note that the recent involvement of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions and working bodies of the European Union has been much more active and successful in representing Slovenia than it has been in the past. So this proposal for a declaration provides a good basis for Slovenia's continued functioning in the institutions of the Union and a solid framework for adopting positions on the topics addressed in the European Union, while at the same time identifying current challenges and including the guidance of the Republic of Slovenia in finding solutions to these issues. Some of the tasks contained in the previous declaration remain unfinished and we will have to focus more on them in the new declaration. In addition, a number of new trials and challenges have emerged in the European Union during this period, such as migration and economic problems, the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and the growing threats to peace and order within Europe and the growing instability in the European neighbourhood. These challenges, however, represent one of the most difficult tests for the development and strength of the Union and its future existence. In this context, the Republic of Slovenia is also one of its Member States, whether wanted or not, directly and indirectly to the test. We must be aware that these challenges cannot be successfully addressed by any Member State alone, but only in close cooperation with all the members of the European Union in the search for common European solutions. In doing so, the SMC Group notes that the new proposal for a declaration responds adequately to these challenges and to the changed circumstances that require priority treatment, an appropriate and timely response. Among other things, in addition to a successful sustainable and social Europe and Slovenia and a stronger Europe at the world stage, as the first objective that Slovenia will prioritise in its operation within the European Union, is a secure Europe and a secure Slovenia, within which the Republic of Slovenia will strive to strengthen its capacity for such a Union in which citizens will feel safe. In the SMC Group, we support further strengthening the European Union's security cooperation, which will enable us to respond more effectively to the security challenges ahead. We are particularly committed to taking effective measures to combat terrorism, radicalism and extremism in the spirit of solidarity and common European values. However, we must not allow such events to endanger our security and the enjoyment of the fundamental freedoms brought by membership in the European Union. Slovenia is very active in the field of migration policy. Otherwise, Slovenia, as the smallest country on the Schengen border, is very exposed, so within the EU we are committed to a common approach that must be solidarity and responsibility. We are also working to prevent illegal migration, which requires effective control of the external borders of the European Union, the implementation of compensatory measures inside and the full operational capacity of the European Border and Coast Guard. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular that Slovenia, during its political orientations, will pay particular attention to the introduction of social Slovenia and social Europe. In doing so, we will focus on such a Union that will promote equality between women and men and rights and equal opportunities for all. For the Union to fight unemployment, discrimination, social exclusion and poverty. For the Union, where young people will receive the best education, training and will be able to study and find employment throughout the Union. I believe it is crucial that we put the individual's systemic efforts at the forefront with all his/her needs in the field of education, culture, work, health and social security. In doing so, we must also pay particular attention to the fight against intolerance, racism and all forms of hate speech. In addition to the policy orientations mentioned in the proposal for a declaration, Slovenia also highlights the following priorities: strengthening the economic and monetary union, the EU's development-oriented budget and additional impetus for investment, strengthening the Single Internal Market and completing the Digital Single Market, building a solid energy union, an effective transport policy, maintaining a strong common agricultural policy and a strong common trade policy, supporting the EU's common response and policy on migration, the successful use of resources within cohesion policy, the active creation of a strong common foreign and security policy and strengthening the role of the European Union as a credible global actor. As we can see from the above, Slovenia is very committed to developing and strengthening common European policies and increasing European integration, which is essential especially in those areas where only a strong and strongly integrated Europe can be effective. We therefore insist that Slovenia will continue to contribute constructively to the stability, security and economic and social strength of the European Union, while respecting the European Union's acquis. Such a stable, secure, united and economically successful Union is the fundamental framework for the development of our country, and we want Slovenia to remain a strong and very committed member of the Union and at the heart of its integration in the future. In order to achieve all these objectives and priorities of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, we wish to reach a broad political consensus at today's meeting, and we will also contribute to our votes in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u53	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I welcome you! We're dealing with 11. Proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period July 2017–December 2018. The Declaration contributes to the transparent functioning of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union and provides a broader framework for drawing up views on the European Union acts that Slovenian government representatives represent in their daily work in the institutions of the European Union. The events of the last year dictate the need for closer and more effective participation of all members and commitment to finding common solutions. We are faced with a number of challenges more than ever in today's period. The wave of populism seems to be slowing down, but there are no other challenges. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to see a number of debates on the situation of older people in society and on the projected demographic changes in the future. We only want this to be even more and to encourage those thinking also to be responsible in the area of social and health and the labour market in Slovenia for activities that would improve the situation of one of the most vulnerable groups of citizens, these are older people who are no longer able to earn income by working on the market. As we know, it still opposes the establishment of an effective demographic fund, which we have been working for a number of years in the Desus Group. Likewise, the competent ministries, health and work, family and social affairs have not yet given birth to a legal basis to address the issue of long-term care. In addition, the organization of accessible help for the elderly in the home is limping. Not to mention that the number of pensioners living below the poverty line has increased according to Sursa's latest data over the past year. It is also important that we strive to improve the general and professional competences of persons who are less involved in lifelong learning and to reduce disparities between skills and labour market needs. By providing jobs, it is ensured that contributions are made to ensure the sustainability of the health and pension allowance. Slovenia could learn from the actions of other countries, inter alia, in order to finally equalise the contribution rate paid by workers for pension contributions to those paid by employers and to prepare itself for the challenges of a long-lived society. We also support the strengthening of Member States' cooperation in the area of joint procurement of medicinal products and greater accessibility to health technologies. In doing so, let us not forget the younger ones who need to receive good education and training in order to be able to study and find employment. We therefore support cooperation in the field of education and training between the Member States and the institutions of the European Union. We encourage active citizenship of all generations, as it will only create the conditions under which all citizens can live with their work. We know that there is still room for improvement, as Slovenia is rich enough to ensure the decent life of all its inhabitants, so it is essential that Slovenia, together with other Member States of the European Union, fight unemployment, discrimination, social exclusion and poverty. Slovenia must continue to act constructively in the institutions of the European Union and continue to respect the rule of law consistently. At the same time, we must ensure that international law is respected by other members of our large family. Dearly beloved, in the desire for the further evolution of this community of nations, whose part we are, we will support the proposal for a declaration in the Desus Group. We believe that it is a good guide for the functioning of our country in the institutions of the European Union in the coming year and a half. Finally, let me greet the pensioners on the balcony! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u55	Thank you very much. It's not a custom, but so be it. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Ministers and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Declaration on guidelines for action in the institutions of the European Union is a fundamental document on the strategic objectives and efforts pursued by the Republic of Slovenia over a period of time within the framework of its operation within the European Union. The Declaration thus constitutes a framework for the key political objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and highlights those that constitute its priorities, which can also be classified by its content as documents which in some way define the vision of the European Union, as defined by the Republic of Slovenia within its strategic framework. In short, the declaration of action not only embodies Slovenia's political objectives, but should say the most about its expectations and efforts, as well as about the fears, fears, fears in the Union and the world that we are facing today in a period of rapid change, both political and economic. The Government's proposal for a declaration highlights the four main priority areas of action, namely, we want a Europe where citizens will feel safe, and in all the meanings of that word, a commitment to sustainable growth and a social Europe is essential if we are to grow beyond just economic and security cooperation if the European Union is to truly bring full benefits to all its people. As a fourth priority, the Government underlines the power of the European Union, as only an integrated and unified one can play its role on the global map. In short, Slovenia wants more security, more sustainable governance, more social justice and more power for the Union to do so in the European Union. Now, on paper, on resolutions, we can write any strategy. None of us want less jobs, worse jobs and more dangers. What we are dealing with today – while we all agree that it would be nice to live better – is crucial that Slovenian policy and everyone who works and works differently, even outside the national framework, should understand that we are playing together and that when the interest of the Republic of Slovenia is represented abroad, we must forget here and there that there is a daily policy and that there are ours and yours. The main burden of the Republic of Slovenia in implementing all its strategic decisions in the last 25 years has been this, inanimateness and deliberate damage to its strategic interests, so that someone has managed and managed to gain a more political point here and there today, something less tomorrow. If we know this to go beyond and if, at least where this is the most important within the European Union, we know to go beyond our traditional division, then this resolution and strategy is an excellent document. If we play it our own way, it's just as important as the text I read before. We will, of course, support the Social Democrats, and, as we have said, we hope for unity, just as we hope to achieve all the wonderful goals that we have said to ourselves in the last hour and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u57	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the supplementary proposal for a declaration. She has the floor as the first Mrs Andreja Potočnik, to prepare for Mr Simon Zajc and Danilo Anton Ranc. Mrs. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Let me begin my debate by saying that I regret that we are not the biggest opposition parties here because we are talking about a very important topic, and this is a proposal for a declaration of the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU. This is also a reflection of the opposition on this subject. As we already know, this declaration is adopted eleven times, and this is a fundamental document that speaks of transparency and the targeted functioning of Slovenia in all the institutions of the European Union. We were told that the material was fully in line with all the ministerial departments, which gave me great insight. The key themes of this declaration are the debate on the future in the EU, the negotiations on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the preparation of the multi-annual financial framework after 2020, the security of Europe and Slovenia, the successful economy, sustainable environmental care, the social dimension of the future of the European Union and the strengthening of the role of the European Union at the global stage. As President of the Committee on the Economy myself, I, of course, focus mainly on the part that touches the economy, I think it is extremely important that we have two key challenges in this area: a single market, it is said, in the area of this trade policy. But the second challenge is brexit, because it directly touches our consumers and also our companies that work with the United Kingdom. The essential difference between this declaration and the previous declaration is in two areas, and this is just brexit and another area is the new US administration. I believe that, even in these two essential differences, the new declaration must address these two key changes. We have heard from the Committee on the Economy that particular emphasis should be given to the appropriate arrangements for the status of goods, services, investments and rights relating to goods in the period following the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. However, it is important to be very careful before the new agreement enters into force. It is likely that there will have to be a transitional period for all Slovenian consumers and entrepreneurs who, as already mentioned, cooperate with the United Kingdom. In short, we want the smoothest possible transition from one regime to another, and I believe that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will work hard towards this smooth transition. Another important topic in the economic field is the common trade policy. The responsibility of the European Union in establishing rules and standards at global level, strengthening the role of the European Union as one of the leading members of the World Trade Organisation, must be highlighted here. Of course, in all this, we must also take care to maintain all the high standards we know in the European Union and try to enforce them throughout the rest of the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u59	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc and Mr Andrej Chus.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would focus in my debate on just one area, this is agriculture. Indeed, the period covered by this declaration will be very important for agriculture in the European Union and, of course, for Slovenian agriculture as well. At least now there are discussions about what the future common agricultural policy in the European Union should be like. It is therefore very important that, during these talks, Slovenia, within European institutions, plays its role to ensure that these specificities, which Slovenian agriculture has, so that three-quarters of our farmers, in areas where farming opportunities are limited, make sure that we are small farmers, that the average of 6.8 hectares is there, in short, these specificities must be taken into account now that we are discussing a new common policy so that, later on, when this common agricultural policy enters into force, there will be no excuses for why we cannot help our small farmers, our farmers with specific characteristics. Now is the time when this can be achieved, not to be achieved, but to be the opposite, so that it can be achieved through the common agricultural policy so flexible that we and our farmers can benefit from it. I think that three sets, as far as agricultural policy and this declaration are concerned, are very important. The first set to which special attention will have to be paid, and this is also recorded, is sustainable agricultural production. In fact, the agricultural doctrine over the last 100 years, somewhat less possible, has led us to essentially degrade the agricultural land to the point that it is practically dead dust, that living matter in today's agricultural land is only around 1%, up to 3%, which is due to the use of pesticides, that the land is being plowed, that it is then fed by artificial fertilisers. And if we want agriculture to refocus on sustainable agriculture, we need to start right at the ground, that is to say, this land needs to be revived, and this percentage of living organisms needs to be raised again. Why am I saying this? Why does this matter? Today, agriculture is one of the main culprits for greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere, and if we were to reverse this doctrine of drilling and pumping poison around the earth, we could achieve not only that agriculture would no longer be one of the main pollutants, but we could even achieve that agriculture would be one of the main positive players in reducing greenhouse gases. I think that the American Agency for Agriculture and Food has published information that if this doctrine were to change, so that they would no longer destroy the land, within one year the agricultural land would suck up all greenhouse gas emissions released into the atmosphere by the industry. So this is one thing that needs to start thinking more effectively at European Union level, and here I think that Slovenia, given the structure of agriculture we have, can also lead. And when we talk about changing our minds about this doctrine, we come up with a second set, which I think is crucial in this, and these are young farmers, or young farmers, who will have to be further strengthened in the future, they will have to be further assisted. By the way, when is the easiest time to introduce new technologies? When a generation changes. And when the generation is changing, it is also necessary at European Union level to ensure that this money is introduced in the case of young entrepreneurs with new ideas that are capable of – for example for the Slovenian situation – introducing technologies and products that then lead to a small farm up to 6 hectares profitable, from which two or more people can live. So flexibility in the field of young farmers and takeovers needs to be achieved to the extent that they are more supported. And the last thing that seems important to me in this agricultural declaration is the role or position of farmers in the food chain. Today we know that the situation everywhere in Europe – and this is not just the property of a Slovenian farmer who is small – is the weakest farmer in the food chain everywhere in Europe. If we just look at what happens to our prices on shelves in stores, prices go up or remain the same, while purchase prices in farmers go down. Well, that makes it clear where that money's going. He's not going to the farmer. And in my view, it is very important here at European Union level to ensure that this position of farmer is also legally protected or corrected, where possible. Because we know otherwise that we do not come to this with a variety of soft measures, because traders are still so much stronger than all the other players in this chain. I think we will have to ask ourselves at the end of the day at European Union level, without whom we can cope more easily – without a trader or without a farmer. And in the way the food chain works today, we will indeed lead to the destruction of agriculture as we know it in Slovenia. These are small family farms. This, I think, cannot be afforded, so I support the declaration in this part, and I hope that Slovenian representatives in the institutions of the European Union will be successful in this and that it does happen to us that we are also protecting the farmer at the legislative level in the field of the whole of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u61	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Chuš and Marko Ferlug.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u62	President, thank you for your word. I will also touch on the declaration myself as a document that I understand to somehow smother the activities of both the European Union and our country in this family of nations. Of course, we meet there several times, including our representatives in the European Union, given that Slovenia is small, we face different interests of the larger countries. And, of course, it is right to arm or empower them in the document with measures or activities that benefit Slovenia as well as the European Union as a wider community, broader with the nations that are united in this Union. I would focus here on our natural resources – here are water, forest and, of course, wood. How can the European Union plan a policy of dealing with these sources so that, in the event of these ecological disasters, additional greenhouse gas emissions that have a strong impact on our climate will bring some benefits to the local community or to the country, which is Slovenia, as well as to a wider Europe? In this context, I would like to point out that although Slovenia has some of these resources at its disposal, with certain resources we are also very gifted, for this reason we have also incorporated water into the Constitution, and in particular that it would expose forests and timber as one of our largest sources, which unfortunately is not used as it could and could benefit the local economy and, of course, the wider European community as such and globally to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Although we are one of the forests of the most growing countries in the European Union, unfortunately we are exporting this natural resource. Last year we exported about 3 million cubic metres, while other countries in the European Union are doing so, but it would point to guidelines and economic policy guidelines in the European Union to channel the environmentally friendly processing of wood and also to create conditions for the development of these greenhouse gas-reducing industries, enabling the so-called green circular economy and, on the other hand, to provide jobs and production products with a higher added value. I must say that some countries are following this trend successfully, but I do not think there are enough measures globally at the level of the European Union and conditions to stimulate such production and the processing of wood to reduce greenhouse gases. As my colleague mentioned earlier in agriculture, here I see enormous opportunities for organic waste materials, such as plastics, metal, aluminium, to be replaced by wood. This means that we reduce greenhouse gas emissions for a long time and contribute to a better environment not only locally, but also globally. In addition, the positive impact of these measures is so-called green jobs and employment in these sectors. The amendment, which my colleague and I have tabled, has also come across the understanding of both the competent committee and the Committee on European Union Affairs, and in this amendment we have tried to point out how to introduce the so-called integrated use of wood throughout the chain, introduce the so-called circular economy model and, of course, produce wood locally, because if we drive wood at some great distances, the costs of transport and additional greenhouse gas emissions are once again here. And it is in this amendment that we suggest that so-called low-carbon products should be introduced, that we also stress the importance of putting the wood chain and the full use of wood throughout the chain. Of course, I note that these are more or less guidelines, which would also indicate that, at the level of the European Commission, they will be accelerated by various economic measures, such as stimulating the use of wood products, lower tax rates on wood industry, lower excise duty, and therefore lower transport costs. I think that in the period of the global ecological crisis that we are experiencing and the changes in the environment, one important contribution can be made to the prevention of natural disasters, the concerns we face, and that these measures would achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and, of course, to the use of lower carbon footprint material. I think, as I mentioned earlier, that this measure, which would have also been applied more broadly in the European Union, would have achieved that this natural material is also treated throughout the Union as a low-carbon material that reduces the carbon footprint, and ultimately such a measure would have contributed to the local production of these materials and, according to some estimates, I am speaking only for the economic, economic space in Slovenia, increasing the gross social product by up to 0.4% per year. So I fully appreciate that the declaration is a quality document and that this amendment, which points to the direction I have described, gives us a different width and, of course, the possibility that our representatives in the European Union are seeking to apply natural resources that reduce greenhouse gas emissions across the European Union and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u63	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Prepare Mr. Marko Ferluga and Dr. Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u64	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Where do I start? If we are already talking about the functioning of our institutions, both within the European Union and to our citizens in general, somehow I cannot get past what is last happening in the European Union. Perhaps if I asked all of you here today, it would be difficult to say and agree that we are satisfied with what we have in the European Union today. At least that's the way it is when I talk to my peers, friends, friends, and friends, all of what we have today is unfortunately quite disappointed. However, our government seems to me that, in the institutions of the European Union, it is too few times aware that, of course, we must first look at the interests of our country, to enforce our sovereign statehood in the European Union, not to worship some dictatorships and directives everywhere. And not just from Berlin but from Brussels, unfortunately, we also worship many other countries. And if Angela Merkel's goal was to destabilise the European Union and lay the groundwork for its paradise, we can say Angela's fourth Reich, today, we must acknowledge what has worked. Here I would also point out a quote from a British journalist, who, unlike me, is rather Eurosceptic, in principle I support integration and the European Union as such, but then and for such purposes as it was made, not what we have today. And if I put out a quote from Simon Heffer, a British journalist, he'll tell us everything. “Where Hitler failed with military means, modern Germans succeeded in trading and financial discipline. Welcome to the Fourth Reich." And, of course, if we continue, unfortunately today Greece is tripping with 23% unemployment, here is one of the statements by Angela Merkel: “We are in Europe what the Americans are in the world, an unloved leading force.” So in conclusion, we can say what did not work for Germany with wars, today with military power and, of course, with economics. The six founding members of the European Union, which began in 1951, certainly did not establish what the European Union is today — to be a hegemon in Germany. Here, too, we also have to deal with some of Jean-Claude Juncker's scenarios, which I believe we are all looking forward to the end of the European Commission's mandate, because what we have today is truly tragic, because we are witnessing more circus performances than some serious debate, what awaits us in the European Union and how to go on. I miss the debate on what the European Union will do today, what will happen in the future. As young generations unite and talk across Europe today, more and more people are disappointed about the functioning of the European Union, more and more people, not only people, but I can also tell people, not only are they moving across the European Union, but they are moving from Europe to other continents. Now, last case, I have a colleague from Prlecia who's going to Canada with a belly for bread. In short, if I sum up somehow, unfortunately what we have in the European Union today – and also the result of brexit, somehow dictated from Berlin, although I hope that this Jamaican coalition will calm and neutralize it a little, although I am not optimistic – this cannot be a story with a happy end. The European Union needs a normal Germany, our most powerful trading partner, who has also recognised Slovenia as independent among the first. And we need a European Union that will respect the principle of strong, sovereign states, but not as one, here even Dr. Crnčec says, a federal prowess who cannot stand up for himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u65	Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State! The very presence of Members in the Chamber is a witness to who will have much to say after it is time to say about this proposal for a declaration and a proposal for action in the coming period. Sadly, all those with such a mouthful are not here today, so, very interesting. There's one thing missing in all of this. That's the eleventh, if I'm not mistaken, a statement of directions. In my personal opinion - I have always been somewhat critical of these documents, otherwise they are very extensive, very well prepared, but there is a lack of that red thread that connects, regardless of the government, left or right, some basic orientation of Slovenia in the European Union. It's one of those things that I kind of read to myself and I'm trying to tell all of our colleagues here. Another issue that I think is very important when we talk about the declaration on the direction of the Republic of Slovenia's operations in the European institutions is that colleagues on the Committee of the European Union may not be trying enough to accept these documents with some degree of criticism, but not only to apply themselves automatically to our order. Another issue that is important in this debate is that, somehow, given the situation that is, the real migration crisis, the security situation throughout Europe, we should start to talk about this security segment, where we know that each member is still independent and somehow leads each of its policies. Here I think it's one of the most important points where principles can be found. Mr Ranc is also already the principles of a certain topic that would be considered to be an issue in the European Union as some Slovenian subject matter, and this somehow paves our way and our visibility not only in sport, but that we also have them in politics, that would not be bad. One of the most important issues, however, is the involvement of our MEPs in all these declarations. As far as I am aware of their presence here on the Committee on Foreign Policy and probably on the Committee on the European Union, it is not as I would have expected — not to speak of others — that we could work even more creatively and more in all these institutions. So it's also one of those interesting things. And then, you won't believe it, these MEPs have some of those, at least in our media, ratings that make you think they're moving mountains, and in fact, one big question is what's going on there. Another issue I would like to point out around this declaration is that some of the previous tasks remain unfulfilled. Perhaps it would be good to put it in a chapter in the next declaration to see what is done, what is yet to be done, what is yet to be done, because it is clear to me that there are certain things in the process, but it might be very good to mention this. In the previous declaration, I had commented that the Ministry of Infrastructure, in particular as regards this famous second track, might have been under-defined or under-priority. I understand that each of the ministries and also our delegation, which is in the European Union, knows exactly what to do, but it is nice, after all, that here in these proposals the declarations and proposals of these guidelines, what will happen, will also record certain important things that are important to us, but I think also to Europe, and one of them is the other. One of the remarks was in the debates we had around this statement of orientation, including why there was no arbitration written. I think our diplomacy knows very well what to do in that there is no need for specific explicit tasks in this regard. We know that they now have additional tasks in this area, so that it may be for the public or for those who accompany them to introduce some of these points, which are also at home, for the future good. On the other hand, a lot of work is waiting for us both at home and in the European Union, and I think that with these guidelines it is possible, if they were slightly less broad and more structured, to achieve some other effect, including within the National Assembly and Members, as well as in the local public. Besides, I support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u67	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u68	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Anyone who starts a speech with the words “I’ll be very brief” usually lingers, but this time I’ll actually be brief. Otherwise, I wrote down a whole bunch of things during this extremely short, yet fruitful debates according to the content that this declaration has, and it is extremely horizontal. At this point, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the one that coordinates the process of preparing this declaration, started this process very early than we were used to in previous declarations, although I was only involved in two, but in 2014 we had one complication because they were in the midst of the elections and the case was closed for half a year and then did not count certain things in that declaration which was adopted at that time, then six months later. I must say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken this matter extremely seriously, I find it difficult to say for the rest of the ministries, because we all want peace in the world, there is not one that does not want it. I will not praise the very content of the declaration, because it is very broad, and I think we have a very large number of challenges in the future, as far as the European Union is concerned, from brexit to the multi-annual financial framework to free trade agreements, to enlargement, of course, which we support relatively strongly in Slovenia, and we want the European Union not to lose its members, but to acquire and expand them. That's it. It has been said that we want unity in foreign policy, of course we want it, and arbitration has been and will be one such case where we stand or fall into this small foreign policy school, a large foreign policy school. However, the cooperation of the national parliaments, the President of the Government has highlighted this. Yes, of course, also the European Commission and its Vice-President, who visited us two or three weeks ago, has greatly encouraged and continues to encourage the participation of national parliaments. As a Parliamentary, I can say that these documents are extremely extensive and the machinery of the National Assembly, professional services, although they are doing their job very well, I can say for the Committee on European Union Affairs, as well as for the professional services of the parliamentary groups, it would be very difficult to process so much ballast – let alone the Members – coming from the European Union, from their Directorates where the employed gallons of people are employed. So perhaps in response to my fellow Member, of course I would like to be more involved in the preparatory process itself, and in the process of preparing the declaration itself we have been involved, more at the informal level, that is what we also wanted, so I must express once again the satisfaction that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken this matter very seriously. But the state of the spirit in the hall shows the seriousness of the darkness that we are dealing with. I didn't want to get caught up in this, but even when I was monitoring and reading the reports of the committees, the working bodies that dealt with this declaration, I saw that there was simply no excessive desire for any more substantive debate. But here we are, the situation is like this, I believe that this declaration to us – practically, there are some guidelines, but it will not give citizens what European citizens do. That is why we are here, and we will do everything we can to educate citizens and citizens that they are and are European citizens and that we have from the European Union, if and when they remain as they are, only the benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u69	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, we are talking about the declaration of the direction and functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union during a year and a half of the time interval and from July of this year to the end of next year. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are an extremely pro-European party. We are not the EU's fanatics, we are the EU's realists, and we believe that there is no alternative to Slovenia. Last but not least, our voters and voters expressed themselves at the referendum on 23 March 2003, when about 1 million voters came to vote, and about 90% of them decided to join the European Union. I am also pleased that, in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, we have written that, on the basis of this referendum outcome, the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union represents our fundamental political and value framework. It is, therefore, the values of the European Union, the values set by the fathers of Europe, mostly Christian Democrats, and these values of the European Union must also be protected in different ways. Here I am referring to the establishment of the external borders of the European Union. Here, of course, Slovenia must also contribute its share. It's not enough, as someone from the coalition said before, that we have documents because words and sentences can be written very nicely. So, at the declaration level, we are all in favour, but when the institutions of the European Union, I will now focus on the European Commission, and they recommend what would be good for us to realize in Slovenia for the greater welfare of citizens and citizens of this country, and then we simply ignore these recommendations so that I do not use any tougher words. That is why I call Slovenia's functioning in the institutions of the European Union. This also means, on the one hand, that we have a better staff of Slovenian staff, Slovenian people in institutions. It would be nice to have as many as possible, substantially more than now in the European Commission and, of course, in other institutions. The other is, of course, those elected, for example, Members of the European Parliament. And if we are truly committed to the European Union at such a declaration level, then we should also respect and respect what the institutions of the European Union recommend to us, because they do not impose on us, we are a sovereign country, they recommend. One such thing is the one he spoke about at today's first point and opened it up and is the relevant content opened by his colleague Jurš, low wages, low pensions. Slovenia and its population are ageing the fastest in the European Union. And what have we done in this mandate to mitigate this influence, this fact? We've done nothing, ladies and gentlemen. And over and over and over again and for several years now, the European Commission has been warning us about this, watch out, the population is getting older. What does that mean? Through the optics of fiscal policy, if I look at it, it's going to be big and it's a huge fiscal risk for our country. We should do something today or yesterday to improve the well-being of our pensioners, too many of them have lousy pensions. And what we should do if we want better pensions, we have done little in the business environment or this coalition has done to stifle the economy. She raised taxes, which we remember, VAT, introduced tax receipts. Today we are saying that one sausage costs 3 000 euros, that 1 coffee costs 4 000 500 euros, if of course I am speaking here now somehow in the parable, and that it is not paid by the one who drank it, but by the one who served it, because it happened that it did not give an account or whatever. That's why [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Horvath. I conclude the debate on the supplementary proposal for a declaration. No amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have been tabled. We will decide on the proposal for a declaration in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal for a resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian aid to the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Iztok Mirošić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[advertising from the hall]] The position will be presented by the Secretary of State, Mr Andrej Logar. Mr. Logar, may I see you at the speaker's table?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u72	Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! It is a pleasant duty for me to present to you the resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance, which I believe will be adopted by the Dragani Assembly today, and to give you, in this brief presentation, some of the main directions of this strategic document on the functioning of the country in this area. The question is why this new document, a new resolution. Let me say that, due to the expiry of the previous resolution, it has expired in 2015, among the reasons for this new resolution is the important placement of change in the international community and, above all, the adoption of a new global development paradigm known as the 2030 Agenda for Development. This was adopted at the Summit of the United Nations in September 2015. So these are all the circumstances that we are assessing that a new resolution has to be drawn up to replace the present one. The new resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance of the Republic of Slovenia sets out the objectives, baselines and principles of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance of the Republic of Slovenia. It sets out priority content areas and priority geographical areas. The new resolution also specifically stresses humanitarian aid. And this one is particularly exposed in this new document. The resolution includes guidelines for long-term planning and the provision of funds for international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. It also stresses the importance of an appropriate organisational structure, underlining the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the national coordinator for international development cooperation. The resolution provides for a strategy on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance aimed at further defining individual content and operationalising further action. As some final stage of this will be the adoption of an international development cooperation law. In order to achieve sustainable development effects, the resolution underlines the importance of partnerships with civil society, the private sector and the institutions set up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of international development cooperation in the specific substantive field. The focus of the resolution is on raising public awareness, which seems particularly important to us. It is about the importance of resolution, objectives, achievements of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance and global learning to understand global developments, its causes and consequences and the possibilities for responsible and creative integration into global flows. Let me also say that the resolution also defines for the first time the monitoring and evaluation of international development cooperation, which will be the basis for the preparation of concrete documents in this area. The text of the new resolution has been prepared in an open public and broad inclusive dialogue with the members of the Expert Council on International Development Cooperation, government departments, and I would also like to thank you at this time, and with all those entities involved in the implementation of international development cooperation and not least with the important contribution of civil society. Let me once again say that this resolution has been and is intended to upgrade those areas in a document where Slovenia has experience and comparative advantages, which will contribute to its effective functioning and sustainable development in the future. At the same time, we wanted the document to be clear, short, legible, understandable to the general public, because it is important that the public is aware of Slovenian efforts in this area and that, of course, they also adequately support it. I personally believe, and on behalf of the proposaler of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the proposed text of the resolution will lead well to our work in the future and look forward to creative discussions with you, honourable Members and Members. Thank you so much for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Magi. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members – I see that I cannot greet any Member, because there is no one here but me – all the others present! The Committee on Foreign Policy is at its 92nd session, 7. 9. 2017, discussed the motion for a resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government to the National Assembly pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 4, of the Law on International Development Cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. In its consideration, the Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the motion for a resolution in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and the motion for a resolution had no substantive observations. The motion for a resolution was accompanied by amendments to the preamble, to the chapter Objectives, starting points and principles, to the chapter Priority areas and areas of international development cooperation, to the chapter Long-term planning and provision of funds for international development cooperation, to the Chapter System of International Development Cooperation and to the chapter Inclusive and effective partnership for international development cooperation. Mr Andrej Logar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, presented the motion for a resolution in a supplementary explanation. He highlighted the key reasons for its development, based on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. In doing so, he outlined the main objectives, starting points and principles and highlighted the priority areas and areas to which the Republic of Slovenia focuses in the context of international development cooperation. As priority areas of content, the motion for a resolution defines the fight against climate change, focusing on sustainable management of natural and energy resources and the promotion of peaceful and inclusive societies. Particular attention is paid to good governance, equal opportunities and quality education. He said that the Western Balkans, the European Neighbourhood and Sub-Saharan Africa are considered priority geographical areas of the Republic of Slovenia, with more emphasis being placed on the less developed countries. He stressed that the motion for a resolution was the basis for the preparation of an international development cooperation strategy aimed at further defining specific substantive areas and operationalising further action. It also stressed the importance of cooperation with NGOs and implementing institutions and the integration of the private sector into international development cooperation. He pointed out that the motion for a resolution for the first time also defined the monitoring and evaluation of international development cooperation, thus allowing for greater involvement of civil society. The position of the interested public was also presented by Mr Albin Keuc, the manager of the Slog platform, who stressed that, due to current challenges, the motion for a resolution is a strategically important document which further strengthens the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate, the Members identified themselves to the proposed amendments, which were further explained by the representative of the motioners, Dr Matej T. Vatovec. He noted that the role of the private sector was overemphasized and, as a result, the document was unambitious because it was underfocused on other important areas. He was also critical of the economy's separate emphasis, as the objectives of this should be completely incompatible with the sustainable development objectives highlighted by the document. The opposition representative of the Magi expressed disagreement with him. Branko Grimes. Mag. Branislav Rajić pointed out the nobility of increasing funds for international development cooperation, but pointed out that we should not forget the actual capacity of the Slovenian budget. Secretary of State Andrej Logar agreed with some of the above concerns and further explained them, and some of the thoughts and assessments of the representatives of the amendment candidates seemed unacceptable to him. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee adopted the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the preamble and to the section Priority areas and areas of international development cooperation, but did not accept the other amendments of this Group. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has drawn up and adopted an amendment to Chapter Objectives, Platforms and Principles. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all parts of the motion for a resolution jointly and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u75	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u76	Thank you and a nice hello again! International development cooperation in the global economy primarily serves to preserve the existing exploitation relations of the countries of the world periphery or so-called developing countries, of course at the expense of the countries of the world centre or so-called developed countries. Unlike military intervention and free trade agreements, this is a more perfidious form of domination, which aims to preserve, as does the first two, the dependence of former colonies on colonizers. It is about maintaining access to natural resources, to the cheap labour market and markets for the export of final products from the countries of the World Centre. It's about keeping the operating system at home and in the world. In Levica, we believe that the international solidarity of all people united against the system of capitalist exploitation is necessary to eliminate poverty, inequality and discrimination, for the decent life of all people, for the real sustainable development in both the environment and the social sense and, lastly, for the peaceful co-existence of all people and for the existence of humanity on this planet. We need to make a move. A shift from the present form of international development cooperation, which is more than intended to preserve existing social relations in the world, to the form of international development cooperation that will encourage changes in these relations. The resolution that we are considering is therefore contrary to what we would really like in Levica. It's a document that's unambitious. Non-ambitious not only in the light of the standards we set ourselves in Levica, but also in the light of the previous resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian aid, which expired two years ago. The implementation of this resolution has been a little defeatary. At the time of the expiry of its validity, Slovenia did not devote half of the amount of official development aid to which it committed itself. If this aid does not include the provision of refugees in our territory due to the OECD methodology in 2015, these results would be significantly worse. Although the implementation of the previous resolution has already been poor, the Government has not proposed any more ambitious objectives or more concrete measures to achieve them. Instead, the 2030 targets are the same as they were set but not achieved for 2015. For example, the importance of NGOs is decreasing, the organisational structure for the implementation of international development cooperation of humanitarian aid in the Ministry of the Interior is weakening and the so-called private sector is becoming increasingly important. The emphasis of this private sector on international development assistance is absurd, as the main objective of international development cooperation is in particular the elimination of poverty and inequality in the world. These are the direct consequences of a capitalist production process, the only focus of which is merely making profits in the private sector and not the welfare of people. The emphasis on the economy in the resolution as part of Slovenian society, which is one way or another, shows the ideological limitations of the proponents and supporters of this resolution. The motion for a resolution was so flawed at the outset that, in the preamble itself, there was not once a commitment to eradicate poverty, the fundamental objective of international development cooperation, between the purposes and commitments of the Republic of Slovenia. At least that is, thanks to the amendments we have tabled in Levica, it has been corrected by now. We have also tabled an amendment with which at least a cosmetic motion for a resolution can be reached to some extent for this meeting, namely, a removal of work that speaks of the importance of the private economy for international development assistance. This part is an unnecessary neoliberal ideological nuisance, which is simply not part of the resolution. Whether the amendment is adopted or rejected, we will eventually abstain from voting on the resolution in Levica. The fact is that we need it, and the fact is that its shape is not what we would like.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u77	Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u78	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! The adoption of one of the key strategic documents of our country in the field of international development cooperation and international humanitarian assistance is an opportunity to recall what it is intended for and what we are looking for as a donor country. Allow me to begin by referring to the thoughts of Nelson Mandela, who the international community has repeatedly faced with the fact that poverty eradication is not a matter of charity, but rather an act of justice. Human poverty has been caused by man’s actions, and poverty can be eliminated only by human actions. The resolution, which we adopt late today, follows this fundamental leader and takes into account the commitments of the Agenda for Sustainable Development by 2030. This calls for the eradication of poverty and for a sustainable development model for all countries from the least to the most developed, and the text of the resolution incorporates the objectives, interests and values of the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in 2015. What we are and what we want to be depends on how we see ourselves and how we talk about ourselves. We can be proud that the motion for a resolution very clearly defines the Republic of Slovenia as a developed country capable of donating development aid. Slovenia, as a responsible and active member of the international community, is co-forming policies and measures to address global development challenges. As such, it seeks to achieve growth, which is sustainable, fair and inclusive, supports the strengthening of human dignity and a secure and successful future for all. The commitment that the Republic of Slovenia devotes 3.3 GNIs to development aid by 2030, in particular in the form of bilateral development aid, seems at first sight to be too ambitious, but in the light of the current circumstances, the only reality is real. On the basis of the 2030 agenda and with the aim of achieving a genuine global partnership for development, we support the emphasis of the resolution on the integration of the private sector in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre and we do not see any ideological content in this regard. In addition, we find again and again that more than the amount of resources that we all want to have as many as possible is important how we spend them. To this end, we welcome the intentions to create a mechanism to assess the effectiveness of programmes and projects co-financed by the development assistance of the Republic of Slovenia. Only in this way will we be able to plan and implement our assistance more in a more targeted manner and leave a positive mark in the international community for future generations. For this reason, the proposal for a resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance of the Republic of Slovenia will be unitedly supported in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u79	Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u80	Good-bye to all of you! International development cooperation and humanitarian assistance are, of course, one of the foundations of international cooperation and forms that promote development in areas where development potentials and the efforts of others are not achieved because of such or other circumstances. The resolution itself is good at this work because it follows what I have been defending all along. That's what you say when you want to help someone, people in particular, you have to help where these people come from. The biggest nonsense that the European Union has done in recent years is to import migrants and thus foreign wars and foreign armies into European soil. You don't import anything other than trouble, and if you import a third world, you get a third world. This is exactly what we're going to talk about today, so I don't want to continue here. However, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, these aids have also evolved to a certain extent. In fact, those who share them have become so bureaucratic that, unfortunately, many times, they do not get help then those who are actually meant for them, but stop there somewhere in the middle. This is not a problem for specific individuals or individual countries, but unfortunately it is already at some general level. You probably know the story when the European Union criticised the United States a long time ago for its lack of assistance to Africa and boasted that it was giving itself 50 billion, and then they did a recalculation and it was found that various European consulting firms were working and so on, they were cashing out 51 billion out of that aid, which means they were actually draining one billion out of there. So much for this humanitarian aid and international development cooperation. This is undoubtedly necessary and will need to be rationalised, adapted to the actual capabilities, in particular Slovenia. Unlike the predecessor, who, of course, represents the ruling coalition, I would certainly not boast about how much Slovenia is developed. Slovenia had a moment when it was approaching the European Union, that was in 2004-2008, and then it began to fall drastically behind the Pahor's government forward and today this backlog is very large, a fall due to the crises that hit Slovenia, it was so great that the current recovery also meant that we were already somewhere up here, we fell down here, and now we're starting up again from here. This is not something to be commended for, but something that needs to be taken very seriously and made sure that we do not only reach this point that we have already been at, but that we will then continue to move closer to the European Union and that we will be strengthened by a development that is faster than the European Union. And if you want an example of how this can be achieved, Poland has only right-wing parties in Parliament, the Polish crisis has not even taken place, and it has recorded extremely rapid economic growth, without falling all this time. That is to say, if it is to be done, only humans must choose the right authority. As far as the resolution is concerned, we will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u81	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u82	Your Honor, once again, I welcome everything very well! The motion for a resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance of the Republic of Slovenia defines the position of international development cooperation within the framework of Slovenian foreign policy. By adopting it, we will map our contribution towards poverty eradication, reducing inequality and achieving sustainable development in partner countries. In the Desus Group, we see international development cooperation as an important instrument of Slovenian foreign policy that contributes to peace, security, stability and sustainable development, while strengthening our visibility in the world. The role of Slovenia is particularly appreciated in the Western Balkans region, where we are recognised as a credible partner, in particular in the area of public finance management, environmental protection, water management and humanitarian assistance. Among the challenges we will have to face in the future is strengthening our efforts in developing countries. Slovenia, as a small donor, can only be identifiable and effective if its official development assistance focuses on a small number of partner countries and priority content, where it shows high capacity and comparative advantage. It must also be acknowledged that, unfortunately, we have not yet fulfilled our international commitments to allocate 0.33% of gross national income for official development assistance. The resolution therefore foresees the preparation of an action plan, which will define the gradual progress after years towards the target set. On the other hand, a number of bilateral humanitarian projects, such as health rehabilitation of victims of armed conflict in Ukraine, psychosocial assistance to victims of conflict and assistance in the area of integrated rehabilitation in Gaza, mine risk education and explosive remnants of war for Syrian refugees in Jordan and many other projects, must be highlighted. The motion for a resolution provides the basis for the preparation of a strategy aimed at more detailing individual substantive areas and operationalising further action. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Desus Group, we are aware that in the last period a significant part of the blue-green planet, including Europe, has entered turbulent waters. But as long as some live in relative peace and relative to others, it seems right for us to share what we can with those who unfortunately do not. Slovenians in this area prove that we have a heart, just like in sports. In the Desus Group, we support efforts to do so in the future, so we will of course support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u83	Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Andrej Logar, other representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats welcome the adoption of the resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance of the Republic of Slovenia, as enhanced international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance are also listed among the key objectives of the Declaration on Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly in July 2015. Although with a two-year delay, it is important that the National Assembly adopts a resolution today, since the Republic of Slovenia is further strengthening its position as a responsible member of the international community and reaffirms its commitment and commitment to the values to which it aspires. However, it is of course important, as it has been heard several times today, that the dead letter does not remain on paper and only in resolutions, it is important that the Republic of Slovenia implements its commitments to the international community that needs development and humanitarian assistance. Here I want to remind myself, and I will remember when we start the budget debates in a few days and we will actually be able to see if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a genuine objective of 0.33% of gross domestic product for international development cooperation and humanitarian aid. The resolution is particularly important due to the current global challenges facing Slovenia as a member of the international community. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that this time in the declaration special attention is paid to public awareness in the Republic of Slovenia of the importance of international development cooperation, the objectives and achievements of this area. However, I must say that we expected the Government to follow the decision of the Committee on Foreign Policy of 14 October 2015 at its 30th meeting, when it adopted a decision at the 30th meeting to propose that Nepal be one of the priority geographical areas of Slovenian development assistance when establishing a new resolution on international development cooperation for the next period. Unfortunately, I note that the Government has not included this recommendation in its priority areas and areas of international development cooperation. The Mountain Union of Slovenia has been associated with Himala and Nepal since 1954, as the first Slovenian alpinist attended the Argentine expeditions to Daulagira and the trip to Trisul in 1960 Slovenia or the then Yugoslavia entered the Himalayan peoples. Closer cooperation with Nepal was established in 1979 with a resounding departure to Everest, under the direction of Toneta Škarje climbing one of the most demanding directions across the western ridge. Unfortunately, the Nepalese head of the Ang Phu high-ranking carrier, which was also the reason for the establishment of the Slovenian school in Nepal, failed to enable the training and assistance of Nepalese professional staff to train as many Nepalese as possible for safer work in the mountains. However, we expect that the Republic of Slovenia will always respond in solidarity to help any affected country or individual facing emergency situations as a result of natural and other accidents of greater magnitude or armed conflict. It is important that the Republic of Slovenia effectively, I stress, effectively helps those who flee from war, those who flee from death, those who flee from hunger, and those where there are actually reasons for fleeing unhappy people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u85	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapter and on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 25. 9. 2017. I am putting to the debate the chapter Objective, starting points and principles and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I give my word to Dr. Matthew T. Vatov. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u86	Thank you very much. As I have already said in my position, we have tabled an amendment on the point where the economy is highlighted as some particular part of Slovenian society, which is of course nonsense. We propose that this part of the text be deleted, so that the word “including economy” simply disappear because it is pointless to stress the economy as a separate part of Slovenian society. Here I would like to point out that international development cooperation, as I have already said in my position, cannot be something that is solely linked to the participation of the economy in the achievement of these objectives, but should be something that is primarily linked to the country as well as, of course, that the State is trying to encourage the so-called developing countries or the underdeveloped countries to become more equal to Western countries in the sense that we are trying to eliminate what has been a centuries-long oppression of Western countries, let us say in Africa in other parts of the world. And second, of course, we should place more emphasis on the role and importance of civil society. These are two key points that should be addressed in international development cooperation as what should be crucial. I don't think that's that far from what some established doctrine of international development cooperation is. If we just look at one contribution in the Journal, this is a newspaper published by the Slog platform, in which the president of the National Assembly also published his contribution for 2015 – we know that he is an expert in international affairs – and where he highlights exactly what we have proposed in Levica with the amendments. Let's talk about this, and I quote here that "development cooperation policies must therefore be understood as a global social correction which, on the basis of solidarity and awareness of economic and moral interdependence, acts as a catalyst for fundamental human rights and freedoms". So, speaking of, let's say the economy will contribute precisely to the exercise of these fundamental human rights and freedoms, if, of course, we understand that the economy is seeking first, and this is the basic logic of the private sector, to profit, is simply confused by logic. Desperate that, of course, profit always puts itself ahead of all other forms of both sustainable development and, of course, social equality. Profit is simply generated by the exploitation of labour. We've seen this too many times. We see that things that are first deleted are labour rights, wages and so on. These are the conditions that can then make profit on the other side grow. If we go to look at this same article further, he says: "On the contrary, its link must further encourage us to focus our efforts on the creation of genuine development partnerships that go beyond the idea of naked aid and which will lead to the empowerment and economic and social isolation of the most vulnerable societies." Right here, when we put the economy as one, I can say what is the basis of the importance and role given to it in this new resolution, or in this motion for a resolution, is also at odds with this principle. If we want the economy to play an important role, we should promote economic growth or, if you want, private societies where we are going to help. So that economic operators are established in developing countries, but not that we are actually opening the way for further exploitation through such proposals. To open markets, of course, this is what is the basic trend in the current world, where the Western market is more than saturated, we need to look for new areas for profits, for opening profits, for new market niche where, of course, this market is not so saturated. And what areas are more appropriate than developing countries? Countries where multinationals and other low environmental standards are under pressure also have low labour rights, low social rights and so on. This is about countries that, because of these pressures, are literally a paradise for economic societies, especially for multinationals, because they can significantly maximize and achieve this goal. Next. In this same article, the last paragraph I will take away: “State and intergovernmental institutions will not stand up to these great challenges alone.” We can agree. We know that this is a very big question, a very difficult puzzle to which, of course, we must all approach, not just the countries as such. And then on: "It is therefore appropriate to emphasise the extremely important role played by civil society and its organisations in international development cooperation processes. The latter are those who possess the necessary specialized knowledge, have direct access to local stakeholders and thus add some of the missing qualitative elements to quantitative dimensions of development policies." And that's exactly what this is about. Instead of targeting non-governmental organisations, those with this specialized knowledge, taking part of the cake and redirecting a greater tendency towards economic operators, we are actually undermining what should be the task of international development cooperation, international development assistance. The point is that, of course, we should strive to achieve what this equality is supposed to be, not that it is under this pretense – and of course also a trend in this recent time – that is, a large majority of countries are just overriding this part of the responsibility to the economy, probably because the country itself cannot do so, and partly because of the already mentioned interests that the economy has in this regard. And these are the highlights that I think are important and, as we say, may be a cosmetic correction, by deleting this "including economy" word link, but I think it is also a very important principle. In principle, that, of course, we will not give priority to the economy as such, that we do not take it as something exempt from our society, and, of course, should be an integral part of our society and have about the same tendency as all other aspects of society. When we are in the official documents – and I think that the motion for a resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance of the Republic of Slovenia is probably one of the key also diplomatic documents when we begin to agree in this way to reduce what is supposed to be solidarity and, of course, the strengthening of human rights and freedoms at the expense of the economy – it will be a bad sign and a bad journey. To conclude, I will also paraphrase the conclusion of this article, which says, let us listen, consider and act. If we want international development assistance to be an international development cooperation to serve what has actually been created, to achieve a society, I do not mean national or Slovenian, but one that will be comprehensive, global and, of course, based on equality, in particular on equality or in the first place on equality, we need to approach this mechanism in a substantially different way. Not only do we look through financial logic, through economics, but we cannot, of course, achieve those set goals, how much we will pay for it, but we also need to look at what kind of international development assistance we really want. Whether with international development assistance we want to achieve that countries will not be the same, let us say, and the European Union of the United States of America, with its colonialist or imperialist policy, if you want to, continue to insist on exploiting the other countries in the world, then of course we must listen to a number of criticisms, not only to the criticisms we are making in Levica, but also to reflect on what we really want and, of course, to take action. In Levi, we propose such a very small step to keep at least this resolution on paper in principle, but of course every time again, and we will continue to do so, we insist that we consider, listen and act in a way that can actually achieve international equality.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u87	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I can see that. Mr. Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! We in New Slovenia, of course, cannot support this amendment. This is the place where they just bang, argue different opinions, different views. Every opinion is certainly worth the attention. We understand the development aid that will help the undeveloped to develop the world in such a way as to open up jobs there. And now the jobs are opening up to who? The economy. God forbid we should open politics. We are saying that the best social policy is the one that creates a business environment in which the economy can open new jobs, expand and thus ensure the existence of families, individuals and so on. When we talk about the economy, I would like to add that we are advocating a social market model for the economy. I don't have time to explain now, but I know that everyone who listens to us understands this, too, the social market model of the economy. This practically means that a person is at the forefront and that he benefits not only the employer but also the employee. And in this context, it strives for such jobs that provide a person with a valuable salary. And I am glad that we are members of the European Union. So much more pleased when I note that the European Union's official development assistance reached its highest level in last year, it has reached its highest level so far, which means that new data confirm that the European Union, or more precisely its Member States, have consolidated the position of the world's leading donor in 2016. So if someone criticises the EU on the average that this, I don't know what kind of vocabulary is already used, then we can probably all be proud here, and we can express to all the members of the European Union the recognition that preserves the position of the world's leading aid donor. Now, if I go into detail, of course, we are not in favour of the development aid that is largely lost in the accounts of large advisory houses and so on. This is an effective one, and this is also enshrined in the resolution, for the efficient use, if you want, of financial resources intended for development assistance and humanitarian assistance. But who will help more cost-effectively if not the European Union, where 7% of all mankind lives and where these 7% of all humanity, I still think about the EU 28 here, generates about 30% of the world's gross social product? Within these countries, within the Member States of the European Union, if we go to analyse, we see that the economically richest countries are also the biggest donors. And I am proud that the European Union is maintaining, as has already been said, the position of the world's leading donor of official development assistance, which, of course, is also a clear expression of our commitment to the goals of the United Nations for sustainable development. In 2016, 5 Member States of the European Union earmarked 0.7% for official development assistance, we have a target of 0.33, but in 2016, 5 Member States of the European Union committed 0.7% or more of their gross national income, namely Luxembourg 1%, Sweden 0.94%, Denmark three quarters%, Germany 0.7%, which achieved the first target, and the United Kingdom also 0.7%. 16 Member States of the European Union have increased their share of official development aid compared to their gross national income, while 5 Member States have reduced official development aid and 7 have maintained it last year, i.e. the level of 2015. A total of 20 Member States increased nominal official development aid by €10.9 billion, while the reduction in 6 Member States was €3.4 billion. The OECD reports that official development assistance from the European Union and its Member States reached €75.5 billion in 2016. This is an 11% increase compared to 2015. Official development assistance remains an important source of funding for many developing countries, but it is clear that much more needs to be done. A lot more. This vision of increasing development funding to support the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was, as we all know, agreed on in the Adis Abebe Action Agenda. So, the key is to do it again, to help in those locations where there are reasons for unhappy people fleeing. I also agree with what my colleague said in his position that we must not import problems and wars into Europe, but to help where there are hot spots where people flee from death, from war to help there. Or to help out where hunger has taken place due to climate change. So that we can respond to climate change, which is everyday, in fact, and have hit hard in our home, in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u89	Mr Andrej Logar, State Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me. Since I was here for the first time when I was in New York and I addressed some conferences several times, we could sit down and feel quite comfortable, but this does not prevent me from standing up and expressing some respect. In particular, let me say that I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their views and also for the debate that was later adopted with a very favourable view to the proposal for this resolution, which I hope will be adopted today. Let me start by taking into account some comments in the debate that the key objective of the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia is to contribute to the eradication of poverty. We have included this in the preamble already at the source of this document. Reducing inequalities and achieving sustainable development in partner countries, this is our goal and, in some ways, this resolution also leads to this. With regard to thinking that civil society is not involved in implementing, profiling and defining policies and implementing policies, let me mention that when preparing this resolution we have actively cooperated with non-governmental organisations, civil society and that the document before us actually reflects a vision of how the country should lead international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance. This afternoon, I have an interview with representatives of NGOs here in Slovenia, and I expect about 20 of them to attend, and we will actually start a discussion on the elements of a possible strategy that will be adopted in the coming months. The Law on International Development Cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia should then follow this. I would like to thank Mr Horvat of the New Slovenia Group for his contribution as well as for his initiative to place Nepal's issue in concrete projects and among the priority projects of international development cooperation. Let me stress that the resolution does not limit the placement of Nepal at some later stage in discussions if these are projects that would receive some unanimous support. We are mainly limited in the resolution on geographical areas, while at the same time around 20% of the funds are available for specific projects, and if the project related to Nepal is the one that would receive the appropriate support and would give appropriate development effects, then of course I am not excluding that proposal to be taken into account in the preparations for the strategy. With regard to the amendment of the Left Group, I would like to be very precise. The sixth paragraph of the motion for a resolution has already been amended at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy on 7 September. As motions for this resolution, we agree with such an amended text. As a matter of fact, we've already taken that into account. With regard to the further proposal relating to the economy, let me reiterate our view that we do not support this amendment of the Levica Group. Let me explain why. While it is true that the economy is part of society, it nevertheless represents an important and special promoter and promoter of economic growth and prosperity in partner countries, which is reflected in all dimensions of sustainable development, social, economic, environmental, and it makes sense, according to our assessment, to mention in particular. At the same time, there is a general consensus that, taking into account the main purpose of development cooperation and the effectiveness of this development cooperation, it is necessary to design a Slovenian economy with its specific competitive advantages and capabilities, and this is in some ways also a support for those Slovenian economic operators with knowledge, experience in this area and the ability to look for their market opportunities in the international environment. So, again, I am explaining the position of the Government, the amendment of the left-wing Group cannot be supported. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Let me just respond briefly to a preliminary debate. My colleague Horvat says it's a key job opening. I absolutely agree. Who's opening them? The economy. Probably to a large extent. That's what he's holding. My question, I think that I have also highlighted it in my debate, is whether we want to encourage the economy in developing countries in such a way as to open jobs for their businesses, or whether we agree only to expand markets, for example, the Member States of the European Union to these other countries, and thus not to empower the economies of the recipient countries, but, above all, to alleviate in some way those wounds that have opened up because of the multi-annual exploitation of these countries. Secondly, colleague Horvat listed how many Member States of the European Union are committed to a significantly higher amount of GDP than we are. So, more than 0.33%. In Levica, we proposed an amendment to the Committee, which, of course, would raise the Slovenian obligation that Slovenia could be part of these exemplary members who give substantially more than most, but, of course, there was no such amendment on the Committee of Support. Then there was another thought, one about helping people in their countries of origin. We are probably also talking here about the consequences of wars and climate change, i.e. various refugee flows. But I think we need to make another fundamental point here. Of course, it would be right to help people in the countries of origin, but we also have to ask ourselves why countries of origin exist. Why are there refugee flows? Why do people flee either because of climate change or — and what is in most — wars? This is probably a question that we should ask exactly to the European Union or its Member States and, of course, to the Member States of NATO. As people flee their countries, it is likely that we are also largely linked to our failure to implement international development aid, but of course we are even more unsuccessful in that we love or that the countries that are in these two associations like to create these conditions or relationships. If we go back to international development aid. What is more important — to help others or to buy 200 million new armored men, an old military weapon, to support NATO’s commitments? Here's the reverse logic that no one wants to talk about or anyone listens to. Countries of origin will cease to exist in the majority or most of the time, when there will be no more reasons for the countries of origin, when we stop sowing arms in Iraq, in Afghanistan, perhaps, I don't know, after Korea, when we stop using these situations in one way or another for arms transactions. As far as what the Secretary of State Logar said is concerned, the eradication of poverty as a key objective was not in the original document. We have proposed this with the amendment in Levica, and only at that moment has it become a key objective of this document. As long as you agree that international development aid does not have the form it should have, at least not to deceive. With regard to the amendment, if you all agree that the economy is a separate part of our society, then do not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u93	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, that is to say the first, fourth, fifth and sixth indents of the first paragraph of paragraph 63. Member of the Wildlife and Hunting Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was tabled by Mr Janko Weber. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as a parent working body, proposes to the National Assembly that it rejects the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation. For the presentation of the Committee's proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Committee, Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u94	Your Honor! The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first, fourth, fifth and sixth indents of Article 63 of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its 22nd meeting, on 7 September 2017. Following an initial presentation by the proposer of the authentic interpretation, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, in explanation of the written opinion, stressed that the proposal for an authentic interpretation formally contains all the elements which must be contained under the second paragraph of Article 149 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It further raised two specific questions, namely the need to adopt authentic interpretations and the question of the admissibility of an authentic interpretation in relation to the proposed content. It is an authentic interpretation of the provisions on the refusal of the issue or extension of the hunting card and the withdrawal of the validity of the hunting card. With regard to the issue of the necessity of the PSC, it is not possible to clarify the provision in itself, since there are certain conditions which are also prescribed in other areas of regulation or are the conditions under which the official record is kept. Furthermore, it does not appear from the proposal itself that the meaning of the provision by interpretation could not be established. The PSC therefore points out that the authentic interpretation cannot be the answer to any disagreement with the implementation of the legal provision. However, as regards the admissibility of the acceptance of authentic interpretations, the ZPS assesses that the proposed interpretation may change the meaning of this provision by adding content relating to the membership of the hunting family and by laying down for hunting families who may become a member. In doing so, we would be struck by a provision of the Company Act which leaves the system of application of the right of association to societies in accordance with the freedom of association under Article 42, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. At the same time, the SPS points out that authentic interpretation would also intervene in the field of criminal law, which is legally disputed in terms of the principle of certainty, which is an integral part of the rule of law and the related principle of legality in criminal law, which gives rise to a specific requirement for the definition of offences and penalties and the prohibition of the retroactive application of the rules governing offences and penalties. In the light of the above, it considers that the current regime with the proposed authentic interpretation is of new and different importance than it does without such an interpretation, thereby not meeting the conditions of admissibility presented. After the introductory part, the Committee moved to consider whether the proposed authentic interpretation of the law should be adopted. The majority of the members of the Committee agreed that the adoption of the proposal for an authentic interpretation was not necessary, as the proposed interpretation meant a substantive amendment to those legal provisions, which could only be done with the amendment of the law. It also expresses the belief that there is no need for a person who has not yet reached the age of 18 to become a member of a hunting family also because, at that age, a person is not mature enough and responsible enough to fully understand the tasks of a hunting organisation which is very broad. In addition, any young person can already be involved in the work of hunting organisations on the basis of existing legislation and is gradually being introduced into their work. However, some members of the committee felt that it would be advisable to consider the possibility that persons under the age of 18 might join the hunting family. This would attract more young people to the hunting families and thus increase the membership of the hunting families, so they think it would suggest considering the preparation of a novel of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which would address these and other issues, which are highlighted in the presentation of the reasons for the adoption of the proposal for an authentic interpretation. Following the conclusion of the discussion under Article 150(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee decided on the following decision: the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considers that it is necessary to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 1, 4, 5 and 6 of the first paragraph of Article 63 of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. The Committee did not adopt that proposal. Ten of them voted against, no one was in favour. In view of this, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes that, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it should not adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 63(1), (4), (5) and (6) of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u95	I give the floor to Mr Jank Webr, the applicant, to present my position on the proposal of his mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u96	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I have tabled a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 63(1), (4), (5) and (6) of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting on the grounds that this is a diametric contrary interpretation of the membership card in the hunting family and the hunting card. The diametrically contradictory interpretations are, of course, also the basis for accepting an authentic explanation. If we look at the first indent, which I propose that we understand in such a way that it is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Society on the basis of which hunting families are established as a society, a member of the society may also become a person under 18 years of age, irrespective of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, which provides that a person under the age of 18 may not be issued a hunting card to a person under the age of 18 – an individual or an individual may become a member of a hunting family before the age of 18. But he can't get a hunting card by the age of 18, no matter if he's already got a hunting license. And here is the key explanation of the diametrically contradictory interpretation of the membership card in the hunting family and the hunting card. In fact, the hunting card is not at the same time a member’s membership card in accordance with the Company Act, but a member’s membership card is also a hunting card when a member of the hunting family buys a sticker and is thus extended and allows the hunter to carry out the hunt. Here is this diametrically contradictory explanation, for it is explained that the hunting card is actually the one considered as a membership card, not the other way around. Therefore, in the fourth indent, I propose an explanation that it is necessary to understand it in the case of a foreign penalty by withdrawing or not extending a hunting card means that a hunter at a time for which a foreign penalty has been imposed on him shall not hunt, but shall continue to be a member of a hunting family. So you lose your hunting license, your hunting card, and you don't lose your membership card. In this too, I would like to point out, in fact, when the sentence of the foreign penalty is that this by-law applies to the prohibition of fishing, not to the prohibition of membership. In the case of the fifth indent, it is particularly important to point out that it is not a matter of amending legislation as reflected in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as in the opinion of the Government, but that it is necessary to understand the implementation of both the provisions of the Wildlife and Hunting Act and the Penal Code, as follows, when it comes to a lateral penalty. In fact, on the basis of known rules and if there are penalties for the prohibition of fishing or for the temporary or permanent withdrawal of arms, the court shall, as a foreign penalty, prohibit fishing for a certain period of time and enter it into the register. In such cases, the offence of illegal fishing under Article 342 of the Penal Code and the non-disclosure under Article 208 of the Penal Code could be taken into account and, in such cases, the court could impose as a foreign penalty a prohibition on fishing for a certain period of time. I therefore explain more precisely which provisions should be taken into account in the Law on Wildlife and Hunting and the Penal Code, but I am not amending either law. The same applies, for example, in the case of a warning or a financial penalty, and on this basis the entry into the record of offences under Article 203 of the Offences Act does not mean that a hunter loses membership in a hunting family and the status of hunting for a period of 3 years, when a hunter who has received a warning or a financial penalty from a hunting inspector is kept in the record. And the hunting card shall be revoked or not extended only in the event of evidence of fraud. Intention is also one of those acts where it is actually necessary to withdraw either the hunting card or not to extend until it actually expires when it is entered in the court record. The Legislative and Legal Service is referring to the need to find a solution in the initiative before the Constitutional Court and this initiative has been put in place, but I think it would be better to adopt an authentic explanation in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u97	In order to present my position, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Marjan Podgorska.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, the rest of you are here! In the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation is not necessary. The reasons for the first and fourth indents of Article 63(1) of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which provides for the refusal of the issue or extension and the revocation of the validity of the hunting card, are not necessary in order to clarify those provisions in the law itself. However, the content of the proposed authentic interpretation of the fifth and sixth indents of Article 63(1) of the Law on Fisheries does not merely mean an interpretation of those provisions but constitutes a substantive amendment to the relevant legal provisions. The initiative to adopt an authentic interpretation is not justified for these reasons. I am pleased that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has followed both the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the proposed authentic interpretation constitutes a substantive amendment to the legal provisions. However, at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we have recognised the need to regulate the refusal to issue or extend and withdraw the validity of the hunting card covered by Article 63. At the ICGP, in cooperation with the Hunting Union of Slovenia, we are preparing a new proposal for an interpretation of the fifth and sixth indents of Article 63 of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, which will clarify when the hunting card is not issued or extended to validity if the Law on Wildlife and Hunting or any other provision has been violated. The explanation will be without prejudice to the scope of the amendment of the legal provisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u99	Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u100	Dear President, Secretary of State, other guests, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we do not see the need to adopt a proposal for an authentic interpretation of the first and fourth indents of Article 63(1) of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, as they have set out sufficiently clearly. Let me say that the first indent specifies that a hunting card shall not be issued to a person who has not reached the age of 18 years, and the fourth indent shall also make it clear that a hunting card shall not be issued or renewed to a person who is legally convicted of an offence committed in connection with a hunting operation and even a permanent confiscation of a weapon. Which makes perfect sense. However, the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fifth or sixth indent does not provide a substantive interpretation of those provisions, but does interfere with the substantive amendment of those provisions. The possibility of involving persons under the age of 18 in hunting societies as a full-fledged member requires the amendment of the current Law on Wildlife and Hunting, and even the Weapons Act, which provides in Article 14 that a possession sheet may be issued to a person who has reached the age of 18. Finally, let me say, as a conclusion, that all efforts to become full-fledged members of the hunting society cannot be supported and I personally do not support as a hunter, because I am aware that being a hunter is a very big responsibility because hunting is carried out with firearms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u101	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor and will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u102	Your Honor! As I said in the opening presentation of the report of the competent parent working body, it considers that there is no need to adopt an authentic interpretation of the first, fourth, fifth and sixth indents of Article 63(1) of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. In the SMC Group, we agree with the opinion of the Committee and will therefore support its proposal not to adopt a proposal to amend the authentic interpretation. In the debate on the Committee, both the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service have pointed out that the provisions of Article 63 in the first and fourth indent are not unclear and that the acquisition of a hunting card is not directly linked to the membership of the hunting family, since they also have the right to hunt other persons of full age who are not members of hunting families if they comply with other legal provisions. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between membership in a hunting society and the right to a hunting card. A person who has not reached the age of 18 may participate in a hunting family in accordance with the Law on the Communities and Statutes of the hunting family and cannot be a full member of the hunting family. It is also necessary to take into account the Company Act, which provides that everyone can become a member of the company and operate in society under the conditions laid down by the company in its basic act. The law is therefore clear in this part and the legislator's task is not to respond to any possible disagreement with the implementation of this legal provision in a particular hunting society or a particular case of a minor. With regard to the authentic interpretation of the fifth and sixth indents of Article 63(1), we have listened to the arguments of the Legislative and Legal Service, which warned that its meaning is changing by authentic interpretation. The Government also agreed that the latter did not substantively mean an interpretation of those provisions, but rather an actual substantive amendment to the relevant legal provisions, which could only be done with the amendment of the law. Legally speaking, the proposal for an authentic interpretation in the first part of Article 63 is not necessary and, in the second part of Article 63, the applicant should submit a amendment to the law instead of an authentic interpretation. We will therefore reject the proposal in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u103	Mr Bojan Podkoršek will present the position of the Parliamentary Joint Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u104	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues and all those accompanying this meeting! At this point, we are talking about the proposal, the adoption of authentic interpretations of the first, fourth, fifth and sixth indents of Article 63 of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. Of course, the proposaler has given a number of reasons, but in the introduction, let me say that we certainly respect and understand the importance of hunting Slovenia, hunting families and, above all, the hunters who carry out this important mission. The proposer discusses how to regulate the operation of hunting families as much as possible and effectively as possible. Next. Add the scope of the shooting and task to the hunting families, of course when the scale of the shooting is increased. Not only for shooting but also for preserving nature; in order not to issue a hunting card for persons who have not reached the age of 18 years, of course, that the hunting card is not issued to a person who is legally convicted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the first and fourth indents are already sufficiently clear in the current law, as far as the fifth and sixth indents are concerned, and this can be regulated by the amendment of the law, so we will not support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u105	Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Common Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u106	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, nice greeting! Colleagues and colleagues! The proponent of the authentic interpretation of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which we are considering today, explained that he has decided to do so because he believes that the operation of hunting families needs to be regulated as best as possible. For they are getting an ever-increasing amount of work, because hunting is becoming an activity where for a long time it is not only about hunting and shooting, but about concern, about nature, monitoring the state of the game, retention of the game and so on. As we have already pointed out on the working body, it is undeniable that in the case of hunting families it is a slightly different content of work than in other societies such as, say, cultural or reading society and so on. This is primarily about nature protection, which needs to be carried out in a delicate manner, and in particular with all the responsibility, because this is also the case with weapons. The determination that persons must be 18 years of age in order to obtain a hunting card has been taken into account and with much prior discussion. In our group of Members, we believe that a person who wants to become a hunter or a hunter must be personalized, know his responsibilities and duties, and understand the vast tasks of the hunting organisation. After discussion on the working body, we have heard some calls that the applicable Wildlife and Hunting Act should be amended to take into account the warnings of the proposer of this authentic interpretation. In the Desus Group, however, there is no need for us to change the law immediately and quickly. In fact, any young boy or girl who has an interest in participating in the work of a hunting organisation, which often happens in families where he is one of the parents or both hunters, can participate in the work of a hunting organisation even when he is under 18 years of age. But he doesn't need a card to do this, and he'll get it if, of course, he meets all the other conditions when he's 18 years old. Members and Members of the Desus Group agree with the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture that the proposed authentic interpretation should not be adopted, as it would constitute a substantive amendment to the legislative provisions, which can only be done with the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members! In Novi Slovenija we are somewhat surprised that the proposalr chose article 63 of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting for Authentic Interpretation. It is obvious that this article is not given a clear and specific and basic reason for an authentic explanation. It is a completely different matter if this provision is implemented incorrectly in practice and if there is an uneven implementation practice. This is exactly what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government have broadly justified in their opinions. In New Slovenia we have long warned that hunting and game management is a very sensitive topic. For 25 years now, none of the competent authorities have dared to shudder in this area, to settle it fairly, fairly and in a European way. Slovenia is unique in the world, according to its regulation of the position of forest owners. The owner bears all the burdens of property, maintenance costs, care and, at the same time, excessively limited rights. Many civil society organisations have been working to regulate the area in a European comparable way for years. Of course, New Slovenia - Christian Democrats and also forest owners are aware of all the positive roles of forests, from economic to social and ecological, but the arrangement, when all the damage caused by savages and some ruthless visitors, especially collectors, is covered by the owner of the forest, is inappropriate. We need to introduce personal responsibility. New Slovenia will continue to seek such a solution. Members of New Slovenia will vote against the proposal of an authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the 27th meeting of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this 24th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 27. On the eve of the day, the proposal recommended in relation to the migration crisis and the establishment of surveillance at the border with the Republic of Italy. The proposal for a recommendation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to sign. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Branku Grims. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! No topic is in fact long-term for the European Union and for Slovenia as an integral part of it is more crucial than the topic we are talking about now, because it has so many dimensions that it is actually difficult to say this in so little time as we remain available today in the introduction itself. In the introduction, a few words first on the migration crisis. The greatest illusion that this creates again and again in the public is that it is already over. Unfortunately, the situation is quite different, which proves right from the time we submitted it, and then the time to the day that the National Assembly is considering it. At that time, things changed so much that the pressure on Italy was slightly lower. In fact, the Italian navy, as well as Germany and some other countries, has finally begun to do what should have been done from day one. This is said to have stopped some smuggling boats, seizing some ships of so-called NGOs that actually organized smuggling of people, migrants to Europe under the cover of humanitarian activities. However, this is not necessarily good news for Slovenia, because because of the decline in migrant flows across the Mediterranean to Italy, the flow of migrants through the Balkan route is being strengthened again; due to more than a good fence set up by Hungary, of course, this also means via Slovenia. There, as we were last introduced by the Minister, we have already seen an increase in the number of illegal migrants found by 130% in the past period, which is, of course, something that we should all be concerned about. What is the biggest problem is that in case of mistreatment Slovenia can quickly find between two streams; that is to say one stream coming along the Balkan route, and another stream coming through Italy and then looking for a way through Slovenia further. The problem is that the borders of the other countries are increasingly protecting. I made sure of that on Saturday when I went to Austria. The kind of controls that the Austrians are currently carrying out, and I've gone through Ljubljana, and I have to say that I haven't seen it in years. That's what it says, border protection is getting stronger on all sides when things are changing. But they are changing to a large extent because of the story that took place yesterday, these were German elections, and only now will it be seen which way Europe as a whole will actually go forward. And what has happened so far, ladies and gentlemen, we must be very concerned, so just a brief outline of what we have witnessed in the past few weeks. It is likely that almost no one has heard the information that more than a thousand 500 people have been killed in terrorist attacks by Islamic extremists just this year. This was just the time when we made a proposal for a recommendation on the migration crisis and the establishment of border control with the Republic of Italy. At the end of the summer, this is said in the period we are now living in, in recent weeks alone, more than 20 terrorist attacks by Islamic extremists have taken place in the territory of the European Union. For some you have heard, the largest was on Rambla Street in Barcelona, 14 dead, more than 30 badly wounded. You've probably also heard of Helsinki, where a migrant with a knife stabbed his mother with a baby and then stabbed another lady in the neck who rushed to help her, and she miraculously survived. The rest of them were less receptive, and that doesn't mean they're neglectful. It was also an attack on soldiers, on police officers and so on. A typical multiculture day in the European Union appeared a few days ago to have been wounded in a single day by a soldier in a train explosion, two severely injured women were attacked by an Islamic extremist with a hammer, a soldier was attacked on the same day, and dozens of cases of physical and sexual violence, acid attacks, destruction of property, and so on. Europe's acid attacks were virtually unknown until a few years ago, and are now on the agenda in the UK in particular. The saddest part is that in fact, some others decide — you know, the examples are sadly drawn. What is always most tragic about these numbers is that the numbers themselves become statistics and one picture says more than a thousand words. I'm sure you all remember that poor little drowned boy who was shown as an example of an unfortunate fugitive by all the mainstream media around the world, even in Slovenia. You all know that picture. Later it turned out that his father was responsible for the boy’s death, who was smuggling migrants, was a boat driver, and then he knocked him over, and then instead of saving the child, he just saved himself. And that the painting was even directed. The journalists themselves put things in such a way that they were as obvious and, of course, shocking as possible. On the other hand, there are pictures that no one can see. This, ladies and gentlemen, you certainly didn't see it on the front pages of the central media. This is a driven mommy with a child from Rambla Street in Barcelona – the image of Slovenia, if we do not act properly, if we do not act in time and if we do not do everything for what we as politicians are obliged to do for people in order to ensure their safety. These pictures, too, I doubt you've seen on the headlines of the central media, not only in Slovenia, even outside Slovenia, unfortunately, you couldn't see this picture. It's a runaway young girl on Rambla Street in Barcelona. Dozens of them were actually taken. There were over a hundred wounded and some worse. Well, this is a picture from Helsinki. Just a few more blood on the street where Mommy and the baby were stabbed. It's actually being carried out, you could say, some kind of genocide. This one is stained with ideology, with political interests, with the wrong interpretation of faith, but this is the reality that we all face today. It is the responsibility of those who uncritically open the doors of the European Union to migrants and still open it and still defend it; and then what happens is what is in the picture. This is Monfalcone, Tržič, this is the traditional Slovenian historical territory. Today, this is a place of radical Islam. Why there has developed so much radical Islam that even Italian secret services are concerned with this is a big question. I doubt it's a coincidence. Perhaps our neighbors have even directed the most radical and, therefore, the most dangerous to rob — unfortunately in this case close to us. And that's why we have a picture of something knocking on our door. Ladies and gentlemen, this is traditional Slovenian territory. This is the border of Slovenia with Italy, where you can look at dozens of people who are waiting, some are also walking across the border and the only question is what will happen from here. It is therefore a fact that Slovenia faces security challenges such as has not yet been met. Just today, you could read two very interesting information in the public media that three of those who were asylum seekers were self-injured as if they were committing suicide and then fled. From the experience of neighbouring countries, we can know that this is also one of the recipes for a great deal of danger. Look who did some of the acts I was talking about today. This is said to be what needs to be done, action must be taken immediately, and action must be taken in the most non-problem and timely part. That's all three of them give a guarantee. I would like to remind you of 2015 when I advocated the need to set up a fence and together with Hungary, at the same time as them, to announce the closure of the border. The flow would go elsewhere, and that's how it was, because it didn't happen, it was said, yes, because we're dealing with neighbors. I said it wouldn't apply. How long were those arrangements valid? Not even one day. Not even one day did any arrangements apply. Unfortunately, today Europe is such that we can rely only on ourselves and our security, our actions, our protection. This is the reality we live in. That is to say, what has been the subject of the recommendation, which has only been made, is that at the border, those actions that give a clear signal should be put on, say, some panel fences, similar to those already at the southern border, be carried out with appropriate activities, while giving a clear signal that we will defend borders, that there is a clear signal that we want to ensure human security. In particular, to take into account the reality today in Europe that countries are already setting ever stronger borders within the Schengen area. It is Slovenia that is facing this at its northern border, as well as at the border with Hungary, that similar story is being prepared elsewhere and now it is only a question of where we leave our own open space. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia acted properly two years ago to protect our southern border, it can be argued with all responsibility that such a regime is bordering Austria, where there is no Schengen in fact, but we can all pretend that it is, we would never face it. Now we have to. As the rest of the borders around Slovenia are increasingly closing down, there is a real danger that is the worst of all; Slovenia becomes a pocket. Only a relatively small number of migrants in this case, if you stayed in your pocket, and imagine that they were in a bad mood, because their goal was not Slovenia, but other countries would pose an extremely big problem – an economic problem, a human security problem, a problem for the social states. It is said that action must be taken now while the time is right. It must be realized that all these stories cost Europe and Slovenia enormously and that it is not an excuse for a second, that is why we are also receiving European funds. Yes, I'm sorry, do European funds come out of the air? We are also paying for funds to the European Union, and if we get some of it back there, it is still the money that has been made by making Slovenian citizens and citizens, with the achievements of Slovenian entrepreneurs, all those who are overburdened by taxes because of the money being thrown out the window. After the Court of Auditors found that one migrant stood a thousand EUR 980 per month! Three Slovenian workers, poorly paid, worked for one migrant. Now we are facing a further problem, a security problem that is becoming increasingly pressing in Europe. The stories I've presented, which have been stories in recent weeks, not in recent years, but in recent weeks, of course, all those who think it's no longer a topic, or they're trying to convince people that it's no longer a topic, how it doesn't matter anymore. Where, ladies and gentlemen, it's only just begun! See, even what is happening in Slovenia – we are now witnessing real threats, including those expressed in official institutions, such and different ones. Because of one extreme, we must always know that one danger is giving birth to another and things are getting worse if things are not done in time for those measures that are mitigating things. However, things need to be mitigated by first protecting the border, then by looking at who has come to us and for what purposes. All who swear to violence, and especially radical Islam, must be shown the door. For all time! Although Slovenia will no longer be a safe country. This, ladies and gentlemen, and I conclude, is not only a security issue, it is also a fundamental development issue, not only of Slovenia, but of the whole of the European Union, because security will become increasingly good, which on the one hand will become more and more because of stupidity, because of the thoughtlessness of past weeks and months and years and also now, on the other hand, people, investors, entrepreneurs will certainly decide to go where security will be greater. Sweden, as an example today, faces the fact that the most capable entrepreneurs and young people are going abroad. Unfortunately, this sample can be repeated quickly and is already repeated in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u111	Thank you very much. At its 54th urgent meeting, on 13 July 2017, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the proposal. Since the Committee did not adopt the point of the proposal for a recommendation after the discussion, the Chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation at the meeting of the working body had been completed. In order to present the recommendation to the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, very nice greeting! As stated by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Authority, the proposal for a recommendation on the migration crisis and the establishment of border control with the Republic of Italy was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. In an additional explanation, the representative explained that at this time there is only one issue on which the existence of the EU and the existence of European civilisation depend. In his view, this is a question of the migration crisis in connection with the radical Islamisation of Europe, which is directly linked to it and represents a situation that has a significant impact on the security and well-being of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and the EU as a whole. He took the view that security was a fundamental value without which everything else lost its meaning. The Minister of the Interior said that security was certainly one of the greatest values, which the Government also considered to be a comprehensive approach to dealing with migration issues. In addition to security, she stressed that other dimensions, such as the humanitarian issue, should be taken into account in the refugee problem and should therefore be dealt with more comprehensively or in a comprehensive manner. Regarding the migratory pressure faced by the European Union, she stressed that there is a reduction in the number of arrivals at the annual level. Regarding police activities, she said that it was constantly monitoring the situation of illegal migration in neighbouring Italy and was in constant contact with their security authorities and authorities in other EU Member States. This cooperation shall include regular meetings with the security authorities of Italy and other EU Member States, in particular with a view to collecting data on the state of illegal migration in areas along the national border as well as at the external borders of the Member States. It pointed out that since 2016 the police had prepared vulnerability assessments and plans for the implementation of the protection of the state border in Italy in the event of an increase in the arrival of migrants covering specific activities and the escalation of measures on police administrations bordering Italy. In the debate, Members welcomed the coalition's preparatory measures to protect the borders of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of a worsening of the migration crisis due to the possible new wave of migration presented by the Minister of the Interior. As a result, there is no need for additional calls on the Government to adopt new measures in their view. Members of the proposed group have repeatedly expressed their belief that Slovenia must have ready measures and solutions before the re-emergence of the migration crisis. In addition, it was considered necessary to reject and send illegal refugees to their countries of origin. The representative of the Left Group agreed with the Minister of the Interior that the migration crisis was a complex challenge, but pointed out that Slovenia should develop a comprehensive migration policy. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the point of the proposal and did not adopt it. On the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of 9. 12. In 2009, the Chairman of the Committee noted that the proposal for a recommendation on the migration crisis and the establishment of border control with the Republic of Italy on the home working body had been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u113	Thank you very much. In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. In the spring of Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u114	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Speaker! As in the last debate in this month's debate, I can still argue that security for the Ministry of the Interior is a key value as well as a task. We have demonstrated this many times, including through a comprehensive approach to addressing migration issues, because we are aware that migration is a very complex issue and that the Government is also closely monitoring the situation of migration flows and related activities through the competent authorities. As has already been pointed out today, it should also be stressed that there are fewer arrivals to the European Union at the annual level, which is certainly due to the European migration policy and the effectiveness of the EU-Turkey agreement. However, another important factor is certainly the strong engagement of Italy and cooperation with Libya, as well as the closure of the Western Balkan migration route. Despite the escalation of the migration crisis in 2015, migration pressure on the more economically powerful countries in the north has been successfully managed, and even in the future, it must lead to the face of migration with sobriety, proportionality and, of course, timeliness, if a worsening of the migration picture is indicated, in the fact that we must be aware that migration is still the reality of today. Police are constantly monitoring the situation of illegal migration, in particular in Italy, in contacts with representatives of the Italian security authorities, police are collecting data on the state of illegal migration in Italy, with an emphasis on areas along the common state border. The following conclusions can be drawn from the currently identified illegal transitional internal borders with Italy. The largest proportion is from the citizens of the Western Balkan countries: Albania, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, entering Slovenia from Italy after overstaying in the Schengen area and returning to their countries of origin; citizens of China usually enter without appropriate travel documents, their intention is mainly of a daily nature; nationals of countries at risk from the point of view of illegal migration, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Syria, Iraq, Nigeria, the internal border with Italy are trespassing in individual cases, and these are largely for persons with regulated status in Italy and Slovenia entering without adequate travel documents. Slovenia is not a target country for foreigners travelling through Italy, the target countries remain Central and Northern Europe. Nevertheless, we are ready for all scenarios, as has already been said today, all three police administrations at the border with Italy already in June 2016, when Austria for the first time announced the possibility to reintroduce border controls with Italy, prepared – each for its own area – threat assessments and also updated its border protection plans with Italy. These plans provide for concrete actions and steps to be taken, with different risk-based scenarios foreseen, and also taking into account the specific situation, either moderate or excessive increases in the migration problem. The measures are combined, i.e. operational, technical, political, and are also being balanced. At present, the situation is manageable with regular forms of work. The police are constantly monitoring the situation in constant contact, and they also have, as it were said, vulnerability assessments, as well as stepping-up measures, from the classical compensatory measures in the interior to the intensification of these measures under the auspices of the General Police Administration. The next measure would then also be the imposition of temporary reintroduction at the internal border with Italy on the basis of a decision by the Government, and of course it would also be necessary to take into account the restrictions under the Schengen Code, which also gives the functioning of the country credibility. However, the last step and the last measure, if there had been a serious deterioration of the situation, would have been to close cross-border communications and eventually activate Article 10b of the Aliens Act. However, once again, on the basis of all the data and analyses obtained at this time, it is unlikely that migrants would be more likely to be diverted mass from the neighbouring Member State of the European Union, i.e. Italy, to Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State! The SDS Parliamentary Group has again tabled a proposal for a recommendation on the migration crisis and the establishment of border control with the Republic of Italy. This is another of the typical political maneuvers from which their electoral base is being fueled and with which they want fear and intolerance — and what we have also heard and seen today — to show how everything is in disarray. [[ringing the phone]] Here, it's music. Bravo! With recommendations through the National Assembly, the SDS recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare immediately the necessary border controls with the Republic of Slovenia and strengthen the prevention of a large increase in illegal migrants. Allow me to say that, given that I live along the border and with the border and I could say that we have the opportunity to cross the border several times even after some purchases, and I must be honest with you that there was no need for such a proposal not in July, but even less now, this is a couple of months later, and as far as we have dealt with it on the home working body on the internal committee and we have, you will not believe it, you will also reject it, even now the topic under consideration is not necessary. Why? Because of their concern for the competent services, the Ministry of the Interior and also the security services of both Slovenia and Italy share data and control possible migrations. Therefore, unlike our colleagues in the SDS, we trust and support the work of the police. Indeed, we agree here that Europe is still facing migratory pressures. Now, whether this is successful or not, it is possible to debate, but despite the seeming silence, this problem is far from being solved. The number of migrants arriving in the EU must be said to be lower this year than last year. It is said that certain steps have been taken. The migratory flow, indeed, has now shifted across the Mediterranean because the Turkish road is closed, with Italy facing the biggest problems. This year Italy came, once again, fresh data, more than last year's migrants, and here represents the largest share in this. That Italy needs more international attention in the reception of migrants, which I have already pointed out on several occasions in the SMC to all the competent committees in the National Assembly, and also to the Government and the Government in this direction working in the institutions of the European Union, and I will say, but here it is to ask what the European Members are doing. Italy itself has seen that, through the European Union and the United Nations, there is no effective response and has therefore acted alone. We must not forget here the last Slovenian initiative, specifically the Ministry of the Interior, which recently launched an initiative in the framework of the sixth informal meeting of the Brdo process, as part of the internal ministers of the Western Balkan countries in Brdo, in the framework of the 6th informal meeting of the Brdo process, for the integrated management of internal security in the Western Balkans. In view of the above and of the police reports, it is necessary to make it clear that the current situation in the area of migration at the border with the Republic of Italy is peaceful. Calm down, I'm underlining. We can also argue that the majority of the population has not felt the migrant crisis since 2015, as it has always been under control, targeted and controlled. In the SMC, we will continue to advocate European values, for tolerance, for humanity, for solidarity, but for solidarity, which is within the limits of our capabilities and within the limits of our resources. As you know, Slovenia is actively striving to find solutions that will be harmonised at European Union level and therefore fulfil its obligations under the plans to relocate refugees from Greece and Italy. To be concrete, it has so far met about 40% of the quota. The last announcement was made for 73 people at the end of August. The key thing for us in the SMC is that all political actors who bear and bear responsibility respect for the rule of law are committed to tolerance and solidarity and avoid any conduct that undermines European values. The promotion, expression of hatred and intolerance towards certain vulnerable groups is not acceptable, and the SDS is expected to stop unwarranted and unfounded meetings, which do not contribute in any way to solving this problem, on the basis of the above-mentioned activities and decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I think that we are old enough to see clearly enough ahead of us what the future is and that with some patient dialogue, we are saving everything. In the manner shown, but certainly not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The controversy with the speaker follows, of course, that is clear – then I will be out of the bench. When we made a recommendation in July, which we are considering today, the situation was slightly different. Austria has made it very clear that it will close the border with Italy with the military. And with the army. Then it is probably clear and responsible by every opposition, as much as it thinks of course and which not only supplies its electoral base – by the way, it will also disappear, and you will no longer be able to power it – then it is clear that every political and responsible group in Parliament will do something. It is logical that government parties are those who have a government that has a minister and has access to information. It is also entirely logical and understandable politically that the opposition does not have it. When we tabled this and discussed it on the committee, the Minister, in fact, satisfied the opposition to some extent. She said and listed on the committee the measures the Government or the police are preparing, and at least I was personally satisfied with the committee. And the blue coalition, which this is not, this is something else, would probably take some such recommendation from the opposition and say, "Yes, gentlemen, you're right, but we're already implementing measures, but it's true that you didn't know about them. That's what the Blue Coalition would say. Just like we do when we propose laws that you reject in order. By the way, never what it was — in short, a burka; you were snarling, laughing. Now that Austria has put in place this same ban, 130 euros in fines and now silence. The SDS, of course, has clear, loud and, above all, constructive views on migration issues. Where it is necessary to support the Minister of the Interior, an example of the Foreigners Act, when you squeeze your tail between your legs in coalition, die and do not support it, we support it. Why? Because we have a clear, loud and responsible view of this issue all the time. So let me go over or go over these questions, which we have actually dealt with in the past. Look, it was very clear in 2015 that when Hungary started to close the border and set up the fence, it was possible, I don't know how to say it, but for a child who can see a picture that he doesn't have to read yet, it was clear that this flow would turn somewhere. Probably not Moldova, but Ukraine, but it was logical that it would turn to Slovenia. It was perfectly logical! We were able to predict by the dates and hours exactly when the Croatian-Slovenian border would be crossed. And what did the government do, and what did the coalition do? Nothing! The transport company Cerar, d. o. o., transports migrants, illegal migrants from the southern border to Šentilj, which, the Minister knows this, the European Court of Justice said this year that this is illegal conduct. It is true, however, that the European Court – yes, look, Mr Ferruga, learn a little, give yourself up, you might say. On a proposal from Austria and Slovenia and Slovenia, the European Court ruled in a specific case of an illegal migrant who traveled to the costs of the Republic of Croatia from Serbia-Croatia to the Slovenian border. And said the European Court of Justice that Croatia is an EU member and must therefore protect the borders and must therefore carry out all the procedures envisaged in the laws and not transport illegal migrants from Serbia to the Slovenian border. In this way, the European Court of Justice also responded to Slovenia, making it clear that this government has illegally smuggled half a million people across Slovenia. With trains and with the help of the police at the expense of taxpayers. Yeah, what else did she say? That's when we warned you to close the border. That's when we warned you to start setting up the fence. That's when we warned you to ask for help from abroad. The Slovenian police can't do that, that makes sense. At that time, we warned a number of other things. Of course you were laughing, of course you were laughing, and of course you said: You're scaring people. Well, three months later, Mr. Cerar goes to Lendava and asks nicely for Mr. Orban's wire. That's your picture. This is a picture of your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! First you cut the opposition's throat, then you're fencing this ugly Orban to sell you the wire. Let's move on. You haven't even mastered your language in the coalition. Not a word! A refugee, a migrant, an illegal migrant, an asylum seeker, international protection and so on. I warned the President of the Government about this speech, who appeared, I think, in October 2015, he was talking about refugees. Yeah, well, who's the fugitive, but we know. A refugee can't come to the state of Slovenia any different than a parachute. And I didn't see anything in Slovenia to fall down from the sky. Everything else is illegal migrants. However, if asylum seekers are international protection, they must make such an application in the first safe country and not in Slovenia. You haven't even mastered the expression. The first to put the language in place for this speaker was the President of the State when he took his place in the National Assembly. First, if I exclude the opposition which warned of this in writing and orally, of course by using the right terms. We warned you in 2015 that you must stop transporting people. They breed so they don't feel anything. Even the forerunner was now, yes, the Slovenians felt nothing. Of course, they didn't feel anything if you smuggled them across the border! No, they should be rejected at the border, as the European Court of Justice has also said, or accepted an application for international protection if there are conditions for this. Such conditions were not met by anyone who came to the Croatian-Slovenian border. Nobody. Because he could apply for international protection in Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, Serbia or Croatia. That's right. And no one was able to reach the Slovenian border in a legal way to apply for international protection. Let's move on. In due time, we warned in July 2015 that the Defence Act should be amended. Every normal country, and these Western European countries, of course, will send an army to the borders. Yeah, what else?Oh, my God! Yeah, well, what if the police can't do their job? We begged you. We asked you to do this. The answer was: Scare people. That's not necessary. Well, then you brought in the Defence Act — three months after we first alerted the case. Then, of course, two ministers in the government jumped in their hair — the defense supported it, and the interior rejected it. At that time, Secretary-General Krašovec assembled for you in the government, because there were three former police officers, the secretary-general at the time, the justice minister and his secretary of state, and they told you at the government to enter the four-and-a-half police powers that the military could exercise at the border. And they listed them: identification, arrest, arrest and detention until the police arrived. Which would make perfect sense. But the kitchen on Gregorčičev 20 cooked something else entirely. For example, the authority to direct the crowds. What is this crowd direction? Nothing. It's nothing. That's not an authorization. That is why even today, according to my assessment, soldiers at the border have been left to overstep their powers, which was not necessary at all. In fact, those police terms that I've previously listed are clear as a day and we've known to use them for 70 years. It's a foreign law. After all, the Minister began – I don't know when we discussed the Aliens Act, I think this spring, if I'm not mistaken – the Minister finally began to speak a language that I think is true. She wrote the Law on Defence — no, the Law on Foreigners, in which she said that if public order and peace and the normal functioning of the State were endangered to this extent, the police at the border could reject everyone except certain vulnerable groups. And what happened? Did the secretary scare you? No, it's not! I think she did the right thing. In my opinion, she acted responsibly. And if it weren't for the SDS, I think the NSI too – what would happen? The marriage would fall because the coalition turned its back on its own minister. So the SDS has always acted responsibly and also supports the proposals of the government or the minister, the key, as you can see, would not have gone through if we hadn't supported the issue and not talked to me about scaring people. And that, Mr Ferruga, is something I cannot bear, and I will object to you all the time if you talk about it. Let's move on. The situation in Europe is very different. Slovenia, of course, plays a role that this coalition has drawn on, which is a bad role. That means what? I don't know what it's all about. Why do not Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and so on fit the quotas? Then you'll tell me, I can't hear you now that you don't have the microphone on. Why do these countries not agree to quotas? Because they have capable governments. In 2009, as an example, there was a strong lady in power in Slovakia, who was the Prime Minister. And when we gave 300 million to Greece in this National Assembly on a proposal from the left government, this lady said, "No, we don't give!" In the same way, the governments in these countries that I counted said no. And the Hungarian Prime Minister is absolutely right, which, of course, you don't like when he says, "Take them all you want, that's your problem." But you're not gonna rape us with this. And we should do the same. How do we do that? So we welcome them. For a thousand €963 per asylum seeker, there will be no mistake and there will be no balance with this data. The asylum seeker costs us a thousand 963 euros a month. This is the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. Pika, amen, for sure, you can say whatever you want! You can say whatever you want. That's the decision, that's the Court of Auditors' conclusion. With the pension, which you said on January 1st, you increased your pension to 500 euros — you will not believe what a good government! A thousand and a half euros. And that's what we're paying today for one asylum seeker. If anyone rejects the Court of Auditors' report, try it. The Prime Minister tried it, but it didn't work out. Don't tell me there's a worker's salary here. Of course, the wages of the workers are inside — what! If there were no asylum seekers, there wouldn't be any pay. Since these people — I have been a minister — excuse me — if you don’t have asylum seekers, you don’t need any employees in an asylum home. That's right and nothing else. Let's move on. When we introduced the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Order and Peace into Parliamentary Procedure; I am talking about burkas and so on, you did what? That there's no need, chauvinism, I don't know what happened. Or did it go well in Austria? Why did Austria accept this now? And all that fellow Grimes had previously shown up there on the screen; but the Slovenian public must see because it is an integral part of this issue that the media, which you bought, does not show. That is why it is only right that someone, as formerly colleague Grimes presented them, shows them because this is also an integral part of the situation we are dealing with. In short, I'm sorry that you rejected the matter, the recommendation on the parent's working body, and I'm sorry that there won't be a vote on that. The Blue Coalition would support this as a sign of a good attitude towards the opposition; the opposition is a world of democracy. If everyone was as limping as you were on this side, then that's how we'd have what we had before 1990. And therefore we have opposition; that he may warn you of errors, that he may warn you of things which are not right. But you're just acting the way you are now, absolutistic, but just until the election, nothing more and never. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go. I'd like you to stay out of this, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Government! It has been more than two months since the SDS Group's request for an urgent meeting of the Internal Policy Committee recommended that the National Assembly recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it prepare immediately all necessary to establish border controls with the Republic of Italy and strengthen activities to prevent large increases and illegal migrants. On July 13th, we were on the parental committee or, if I am precise, it was already July 14th, because the meeting was held almost 1:00 a.m., we rejected the recommendation, so today we are simply discussing it and not voting. As the vote on the parental committee has shown, this time it is only the SDS recommendations and not the National Assembly and we could put a dot here. The fact that the applicants had reacted prematurely also shows that the Austrian Chancellor had, immediately after a statement by the Austrian Defence Minister, softened the announcement of the imposition of border control with Italy due to an increase in the number of refugees who had angered the neighbouring country of Italy. He stated that Italy currently has the situation under control and that Austria is not currently considering sending an army to the border. So far, nothing has changed completely, so there is no point in losing words about something that has never happened. However, we would welcome a debate on the state of emergency in the Mediterranean, which has been a reality for some time. The fact is that the admission of migrants cannot and must not be on Italy's shoulders alone. Solidarity and assistance for the whole of Europe will be needed, as data show that as many as 85% of migrants crossing the Mediterranean Sea are arriving in Italy, so this country is very burdened with receiving and saving migrants. Italy has so long been calling on European countries to do more to share the burden of receiving migrants across the Mediterranean Sea arriving in Europe. It is a menacing indication that more than 2,000 people lost their lives this year in the Mediterranean Sea, and we should step together at this point. If I return to the debate held on the Internal Policy Committee. In the Desus Group, we believe and trust the Minister's words and ensure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, through the competent authorities, is constantly closely monitoring the situation of migration flows and related activities, that it has plans to step up measures with regard to the results obtained from risk analyses and the specific situation on the ground. According to her, the police are constantly monitoring the situation of illegal migration in neighbouring Italy and are also in constant contact with their security authorities, the authorities of other Member States of the European Union. Since we believe in government assurances in the Desus Group, we would like to avoid debates that serve nothing in the National Assembly. Of course, it cannot be said that refugees pose not only a major challenge for Slovenia but for virtually all European countries, but such challenges need rational answers and actions based on the values and principles to which modern European civilisation is committed. It is important that we not leave Italy to ourselves. We need to focus our efforts on solidarity with the EU Member States that are most burdened. And that. Even if I use the words of my colleague Ferluge, I too live along the border with Austria and with the border, as he put it, I do not have the experience of crossing the crossings that my colleague Grims has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It has been quite a while since this point was addressed on the home working body, where the applicants of this point highlighted the behaviour of the Austrian authorities. This is, of course, internal border control at the Italian-Austrian border due to the increased migration of refugees and migrants to Italy on the sea side. Refugees and migrants tend to continue their journey north of Europe and, above all, Germany. Austria is constantly forecasting and taking measures to curb the influx of refugees and migrants into the country. At the time of consideration of the proposal, the Government has informed us of the measures it has carried out in the wake of the announcement of our northern neighbours. This was also stated in the opinion we received. The consideration of these recommendations is far from being considered, it is already far away, so that today it might be more useful for us to present the events and measures that the State or Government has also implemented since the July meeting of the Committee; what the police have been doing at the border with Italy, what measures they have taken and whether the fear of the applicants of this point that refugees and migrants from Italy are coming to us in mass is justified. Dearly beloved, we have already said many times that the daily conflicts cause people around the world to choose to flee from home. As a rule, they are forced to flee, including threats of persecution, torture, murder, destruction and incineration of their homes, such as in Burma, when more than half a million people fled because of violence against minority members. Unfortunately, conflicts in Africa and Asia have also led to an increasing number of women, children and men taking a dangerous path towards developing Europe across the Mediterranean. During the week, we are familiar with the sad stories of many who are not fortunate enough to get on hard ground. In Europe, Italy and Greece face the most refugees and migrants. Malta, too, cannot be forgotten and the European Union has adopted plans to relocate refugees to all Member States in order to share this burden. Slovakia and Hungary have complained to the Court of Justice of the European Union about this measure and have even requested that they be exempted from the solidarity scheme for the relocation of refugees and refugees, but have lost. The court dismissed their action. Refugees and migrants are also often associated with violence, some even with terrorism, despite the fact that the authorities of the countries in which such an event took place still surprise us with the news that the perpetrators were born in Europe, that the perpetrators of the second generation of immigrants and were born in Europe and that these people have lived in Europe for a long time. Obviously, the Member States that have the most immigrants have passed the integration test. Let's keep that in front of our eyes. For most refugees and migrants, Slovenia is still a transit country. We will allow those refugees who have stayed with us to accept the state of Slovenia as their home; a home where they will be able to develop their potentials, to educate themselves and to contribute to the progress of this country. Let's let them feel Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u123	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u124	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The European Union has shown no determination when deciding on emergency measures to protect external borders and thus help to establish adequate control over and restrict migration flows. Since a comprehensive common solution is not in sight, the situation is being resolved by each country in its own power. As the common European policy in relation to the migration crisis does not work, Slovenia should also decide and act alone to safeguard its sovereignty and ensure the security of citizens. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that Slovenia, as a democratic, legal and sovereign state, must not agree to the concept of free and uncontrolled migration to the European Union. Today we can say that solutions at the very source of the crisis, i.e. in the countries of the Middle East, cannot be expected for much longer. Given the growing likelihood that the arrival of migrants in the desired country, namely Austria, Germany and Sweden, will no longer be possible, our country will undoubtedly become a target country. Let's just look around. Austria has renewed its control at the Schengen border, the free movement between neighbouring countries is gone, Hungary is in the lead of a strong and decisive anti-migrant policy. Croatia has also well protected its borders, and Slovenia is still untiringly waiting. It is expected that circumstances will arise that will require action, monitor the situation and argue that there is no high probability that migrants will be more likely to turn towards Slovenia. Police are expected to provide for all procedures and, in cooperation with the security authorities of neighbouring EU Member States, are already preparing for new challenges. In Novi Slovenija we wonder what procedures she has foreseen. Is the government ready for us to become so-called pockets? Today we do not speak so loudly about refugees and migrants, which does not mean that the situation from autumn 2015 cannot repeat itself. The massive influx into Italy, which we could not read much about in our media, and the open border between Slovenia and Italy can quickly change the picture when Italy does not register these migrants. Therefore, the proposal for today's recommendations is justifiable and necessary to protect our borders, our sovereignty, our culture and the millennium roots. It is a security, social and economic issue. We do not know why you are so afraid to accept such recommendations, honourable coalition Members, because they mean nothing more than preventive action and readiness for a situation that may arise tomorrow. We must say no to illegal migrants. Only true refugees really need our help, and these are very, very few. Already in the previous country there was a river that followed a number of preventive exercises Nothing can surprise us or shorten us – NNNP. Why don't we stick to it today? In Novi Slovenija, we supported the proposal at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u125	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u126	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to another five-hour performance! Director and lead performers, SDS Task Force. After repeated repetitions, we know almost everything: hatred, intimidation, creating a sense of emergency in Slovenia. Why? After years of looting, armed affairs, privatisation and belt tightening, the SDS with its president simply lost voter confidence. The growth of their extreme ideology is why they build on an external enemy. Of course, all means are allowed in the fight for such a desired takeover, especially those who, by means of manipulation and lies, play exclusively on the emotions of voters and voters and are most easily ruled by a scandal. Of course, it cannot lead to power by a people who knows that it was the SDS that earned the catastrophic social picture to a large extent, not by those who remember, say, the patriotic property that obviously grows to the great leader on the tree, unbridled privatisation, the destruction of the social state and the continued undermining of the legal system. Therefore, they are working hard to prove to the people that their wealth and better futures were not stolen from them by those in the SDS, for whom all misery in the country has been blamed by those who have a soft name, Romi, in the same sexual orientation and, of course, refugees lately. This lie is repeated daily, at every opportunity; it is no longer a lie of politicians, but simply a harsh policy of lies. But to be more than one-sided, of course, the accomplices to the rise of right-wing populism are also government and coalition. Instead of resisting it and taking a clear stance that must go against the fascism of society, they do nothing. What's more, the right hands are helping to intimidate. Constantly exposing security aspects, changing circumstances, inventing new definitions of crises, changing situations, emergencies, these are things that help, of course, and it is high time that this is done. For we are no longer talking about conservative posture or the attitude towards people's parties, we are talking about rhetoric used by extreme xenophobic and neo-nationalist parties, and this rhetoric allows everything. However, if there is currently no minority in sight that could be attacked, Commander Ivan simply sends Private Mahnič to order the war on Croatia. It all went too far, but the government and the coalition obviously do not intend to act. With intermittent responses and participation in the day-to-day intimidation, the Pear Manoeuvres of the SDS take place. What's more, you're even helping with the intimidation. The changed security situation and the feeling of a state of emergency in Slovenia are also part of government and coalition rhetoric. After all, the government coalition is the one that has placed the cutting wire on the borders; the one that has adopted the most likely anti-constitutional law on the closure of borders; the one that has reduced the scope of rights that go to refugees to a minimum that allows a person to live a decent life. It was not only against refugees, but victims of wrong policies are all deprevilitated, poor, and pushed to the brink of this society. Such fear promotion is not the only common point of the SDS and the coalition, they also share anti-social policy, privatisation and ultimately the distribution of candy to the most powerful. For the sake of all the foregoing, I declare, in accordance with Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the absence of all members of the left-wing group in the consideration of this item on the agenda. We're not gonna be part of this farce and part of this reality show in the SDS. The rise of right-wing populism, which leads to the fascism of society, needs to be suppressed, not really offered by the National Assembly for a project to change lies. Those of you who have any sense, join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u127	We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. We are going to have a general discussion of the Members and Members of the proposal for a recommendation. Before that, allow me to give my word to the representative of the Magi's proponent. They're defending Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u128	Thank you. Just once again, first of all, to colleagues from the Left, who are now of course going to a better place and I wish them well outside the hall, and the fact is, they missed when they said we were looking for enemies abroad. No, our enemy is human corruption, human stupidity, and in some ways it is best to characterize that alliance of left-wing and radical Islam, which today not only threatens the European Union, national states, but also Slovenia, but threatens the entire European civilization. This is the real enemy we face today, and of course the stupidity and naivety of all those who fall prey to it. In fact, everything about migrants was in some way a theater. In this part, even and even with this sentence, I agree, only in a completely different way than they would like to show it. In practice, however, the largest government party has provided the best possible starting point. I will quote a respected colleague who spoke on behalf of the SMC: “All consistent for the rule of law.” Mr. Ferruga, I sign! With both hands. This is said to be the case; since the Government, under the leadership of the SMC and with your votes illegally, has allowed, contrary to the rule of law, over half a million illegal migrants across the border, I expect you personally and, of course, in your government to exercise responsibility for the grave, irresistible and irreparable violation of the rule of law that you have committed in relation to migrants. To cover this up, of course, you used rhetoric; rhetoric when you were talking about poor refugees. I would remind you that in the spring of 2015, when there were no others here, and when you all thought that Slovenia would never arrive, I made it very clear that there were no refugees in the legal sense of the word. They're not here at all. Today, some of you take this a little bit, but you're talking about migrants, and the government has already changed rhetoric, and it's talking about migrants. At that time, it was so blasphemous that many of my people looked at me uglyly. Why aren't there any refugees? Because of the legal order of the refugee because you have used the term legal order, you are in the first country to be safe or in the part of your country that is safe — you have the right to asylum there! But when you go from there, it's called asylum shopping and, by the way, it's been treated throughout history as a violation of the law, even as a crime. Now this has become fashion, and a large part of the institutions of the European Union are behind it. Everything that has happened in connection with the migrant crisis is illegal. This allocation of migrants by quota is also still illegal because it is contrary to the signed international conventions. The European Court, when you like to refer to it, has not blessed it as if it is now a permanent solution, but has said that it is permissible as a temporary measure. That's about how you read it, if you read things carefully. Personally, if Europe wants security, it will have to face very seriously, for the first time, with its own respect for the rule of law. Now back to Slovenia If Slovenia once wants to ensure serious long-term security, it will first have to ensure a consistent rule of law, but the first, which should then break, is the current government of the current ruling coalition, because the rule of law has trampled to the ground. She's been trampled half a million times, not once, half a million times, because she's been passed over Slovenia by half a million illegal migrants. This is said when we talk about it, we agree at the point that the rule of law must be respected. What is a problem with the ruling coalition is that this applies to it too. Ow! Ow! You yourself said, again by the SMC, that the SDS has invested again, of course, because we are trying to rule the law, ladies and gentlemen! [[…]] Mr. Ferruga, we're working for the rule of law. First. If you want to achieve the rule of law, you need to be aware of where the law is being violated. In this case you and your Government are violating the rule of law and you have violated it half a million times and should therefore draw appropriate sequences, first of all by yourself. We will therefore file this further, many more times, perhaps half a million times, for every violation of the law you have committed, for every violation of the rule of law once and for all, so that you will finally understand what the rule of law really means. When you say so, fear and impatience spread. You know, if someone's fear is that their nation will be affected by something like that of the Spanish who have acted lightly in the past, allowing radical Islam to grow and then experience what is now on Rambla Street; if someone is afraid of it, then they will be responsible for their role because they want to protect their people because they want to protect the safety of people because they want to protect women and children. That says a lot about who's reading it. But when you talk about impatience – sorry, the only intolerance I admit is intolerance to those who violate the rule of law because it is wrong. If someone's in power, they have to respect their rights. If he thinks that something is wrong, let this legal order change, but no one has the right to open borders and half a million illegal migrants to settle with some Cerar express through Slovenia. And then everyone is still listening to how many terrorists are involved, how many potential terrorists were involved, and how many of those we will eventually get back, because, of course, now all countries facing the security issue and the issue of this crisis are asking what they should actually do now. Of course, everyone is turning the board, and how credible this is, and to be honest, I leave it to you. Personally, I don't trust those people who opened borders once. Only no migrant guarantees security; the principle of no migrant within the country guarantees security in terms of radical Islamic terrorism. I'm afraid that's the way it is today. You should look not only at those who went illegally, but also at what came legally before. But those who, say, committed this last crime in Spain, because they didn't all come as illegal migrants, came gradually in recent years. But the Spanish authorities knew that there was violence there, that people were talking about very strange things, killing infidels, threats. By the way, we are witnessing threats in Slovenia. I have already seen them, too, when I, as President of the Commission for the Control of Security Intelligence Services, presented — and believe me, very popular — what was the debate between my colleagues and colleagues at the closed meeting of the Commission before the public, I experienced the fact that someone had strongly forged that statement, manipulated it to the end, and then was published down there to Arabia on Al Jazeera. That was Mr. Nezet Poric. That's why I also got a threat then because of statements I didn't say at all; but what was used was given into one context, in which I didn't speak at all, and I didn't present my personal opinion at all, but what was happening on the committee. And I presented it correctly — it can be confirmed with all responsibility by any member who was there at that meeting. This same man was now in the institution yesterday, in the Ljubljana City Council, talking about how they would remember who expressed a different opinion. Wait, people of God, where do we live now? But will everyone else have the right to say what he thinks because this right is given to him by the Constitution, or are we not allowed to say some things after the new one, or what? By the way, if Ljubljana or Ljubljana City Councillors in the majority, the minority were against it, but in most cases they had a historical responsibility to their own people and to their own Ljubljana, then they would not have the Jami Street now, but would have had the street Jan Sobieski III. I guess you don't have to explain why. This is a question of what you are building on and what gives you a guarantee of development and civilization for the future. Do you believe there's a Chinese study? China – watch out, you know what the arrangement is in China – which says that Europe has experienced such prosperity and development only because it was building on Christian tradition. Then ask yourself, in the context of what is happening now, in the direction Europe is going and where Europe is misdirected by some, not all, leaders. That is why I said earlier that the issue we are facing today is the most important issue in the long term. I firmly believe that there will be no such great wars, which are so much to be talked about, in the end, because this is the issue of mutual destruction, and no one is crazy enough to risk it. It is also an open question to which the development of an individual country, an individual community, the question of the existence of a nation, the question of the existence of the cultural tradition of an individual nation – I will, of course, highlight the Slovenian nation – and of course what will become of civilization as such. Whether it will be a civilisation based on consistent respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as I say it must be, or it will be something else. You won't believe I studied Sharia law with Dr. Cerar, but with 10, by the way, I did. It is very interesting that Mr Cerar knows very well, so, as a professor, what we are dealing with. And Sharia law with modern Europe, by what we understand as individual freedom, as protection of vulnerable groups, women, children, is simply not compatible. This needs to be known, it's not compatible, in no way can you put it together because it comes from some completely different assumptions. There's no question how you're going to put these two together because you can't. The question is whether one will prevail, or whether freedom will be maintained for all. This is the fundamental issue that we are really facing. This issue is not only a question of culture, civilisation, security, but also an ever-increasing issue of development. See what is happening in Sweden; Sweden was the richest country or at least one of the richest countries. They opened the door to migrants, imported them so much that things went completely out of hand and today the richest layer of people, entrepreneurs, youth, people are moving abroad, because they simply don't see their future there. Is this the future you want for Slovenia?Oh, my God! Before that, I said that nothing destroys the future of civilization, prosperity, security, more than a string of left-wing and radical Islam. How far this goes, let me say on a case that most people don't know. Most have probably now heard that in recent years it has become a fashion, especially in Britain, that radical Islamists attack with acid, with a substance that degrades man. They especially use it against women because it works for intimidation. But you won't believe that when you were in America Charlottesville, about which you were all very unilaterally informed, there was a conflict, because the police withdrew, but the police withdrew because they had previously separated the left and right, but there was an order from the local left-wing government that apparently wanted to cause a conflict. But what you don't know is that someone from the antifayal, radical lefties threw acid in the face and had permanent eye damage because of it. Clearly, what is the worst possible example is already growing in this cooperation, when left-handed left-wings in the hands of radical Islam are destroying civilization and endangering everyone around them. This is what really is the biggest problem, and it is what we are dealing with. Everything else is in the context of this. And don't say it's xenophobia! Why does not Europe order that refugees who are actually refugees, even if they do not have this status, be dissolved in Poland now because they have come from Ukraine? Because the European Union has disgraced Ukraine. First, she encouraged them to go into action because they knew that they were going to run into a very radical rejection position in the Russians, but after the case had broken down, they were left behind. The result is a million refugees, hosted today by the state of Visegrad, a vast majority of them are in Poland and are from an area under Russian or pro-Russian territory, if you like, the occupation of Ukraine. But nobody talks about these. That doesn't even exist as a problem! Isn't that interesting? There are no mandatory aid quotas here. On the contrary, Poland is under pressure to adopt even radical Islam. What are we talking about? What we are hiding now is that this is no longer humanitarian aid. These are political objectives hidden for the enormous and sky-sweep humanitarian principles. This, ladies and gentlemen, has already been so important at the beginning, whether we are talking about the poor refugees or we are talking about migrants – whether we are talking about illegal migrants, we are using the right expression and the danger posed by the link between left-wing and radical Islam. This is really what we are talking about, and there is something that we need to know about this context – that Slovenia is increasingly becoming a remote island, because our dear neighbours all in turn are strengthening borders against Slovenia. Anyone who doesn't believe that should get in the car and drive a little across the Austrian border. Every day, they reinforce border control. They also strengthen him because we have no control over Italy, Comrade Ferlug. What's going on out there? Now let's take a look at the whole picture. Macron, because of the pressure of the local public, has literally had street conflicts in Paris, which we do not write about and talk about for a while, and the “no” area where police with armoured men no longer hope to go, thus closing the border against Italy. This works very discreetly, some of it was before the elections, and now after the elections, it's getting worse. The Swiss sent an army to the border — a set. They've closed the border. And why is Switzerland Switzerland? For the first time because it consistently respects the right to direct decision-making, to a referendum. The last referendum took place after 50% of the participation, if I am properly informed, and therefore, in fact, they have in their hands those who have to have it by the constitution, and this is no one else. On the other hand, because they are able to vote in the referendum that migrants will no longer receive any social support, which means that from now on Switzerland will not be a destination country for migrants even in dreams. Therefore, Switzerland is Switzerland, ladies and gentlemen. And we go to fake social and fake humanitarianism, and then we witness that four Slovenian pensioners get as much pension as this country costs one migrant under this government. One asylum! Or that three Slovenian workers are paid as much as 100 per cent to the employer of the government, then one illegal asylum-seekers, a migrant. Yeah, great, well! And then you tell me it's a social state. What a social state! This is unfair, ladies and gentlemen! It's got nothing to do with social security anymore. However, it has very much to do with political objectives and the fact that it obviously wants to destroy the country as such, in the long run, of course. Instead of giving a framework as we should to ensure security consistently on the one hand; from border protection, to reviewing everything within the country – once again, I will say a hundred times, radical Islam in Europe cannot have room! This must be sent from where it came, if not, there will never be security and peace. It doesn't matter if he came as a legal migrant, as an illegal migrant, as much as anything. Whoever swears on violence, who preaches violence, cannot have room in modern Europe, if not, is the end of civilization. That's what guarantees the constitution. Does anyone else even read what the Constitution says? Once this is ensured, everything must be done to establish a framework, on the one hand, for successful entrepreneurship, which provides the only prosperity that gives only rich individuals, but all individuals, not like left-wing people, when they talk about redistribution of wealth, do only the poor. Once people understand what the left-wing goal is. After all, the leftist's goal is to be as many poor as possible, so that everyone then hangs on their mother's bosoms and her left wins again, so that I get three hundred euros, and they don't even think that if the right wins, we'd have a business, and he'd get ten or twenty times that. They do not carry people that far after being caught once in this mental framework of socialism, which is unfortunately still dominant in Slovenia. Once they understand that security is the foundation of prosperity and prosperity, then we come to a key point. Instead of importing migrants, which must be brought to an immediate and unconditional end, everything must be done to decide for more children, to return the will, to love life and to make people, because they will also be encouraged, to make sure that the tax policy is right and that everything else works better for more children. It's just a long-term survival. And seek the support of those who are capable of doing so. If this is not capable of the European Union as a whole, it will be necessary to get as close as possible to the Visegrad Group, I have been stressing this all along. By the way, you rejected the ruling coalition a year and a half ago in a vote in this House, which is very sad to see what you've done. That is why we are facing these issues today. These issues are not only security issues, I stress once again, they have a great deal of value issues, respect for human rights, respect for the protection of the most vulnerable groups, especially women and children, the issue of the existence of civilization, as we understand it and know it today, it is respect for and constitutional order and the rule of law, which has been gravely violated under this government, systematically, systematically, deliberately – five hundred times has been violated. It is therefore a matter of the existence of the State as such. If we act wisely, if we act preventively, then it will be a rich country that has all the conditions for this, with smart, good people who are able to develop exceptional entrepreneurship, which we prove, unfortunately, repeatedly abroad than at home. Or will such conditions continue to be established as they have unfortunately been for quite some time, and then we will witness the further departure of the most capable young people and entrepreneurs abroad, and then again someone will come up with the idea that at least half a million migrants should be imported. But in such a country, I am firmly convinced that none of the citizens and citizens really wants to live; only if they once clearly present themselves as to what this is and people are aware of all these dimensions. This is not about any intolerance to anyone, but it is a simple question of whether we are capable of providing citizens and citizens with security, prosperity, legal order, perspective, the future. If we're capable of this, then we're trustworthy. If we don't, we're gonna have to do something different. And it will be decided by people in less than a year, be aware of that. As a result, all those who, by demeaning any well-intentioned proposal, throw it out the window, think about how different behavior is in the SDS. When the Minister proposed the right solutions, we supported them in the SDS without any doubt. And you let too many of your own ministers out of the coalition. You may be ashamed of yourself, for it was a value that was the foundation of everything for human security!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u129	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak and the Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The refugee migrant theme is in the National Assembly today, I think six times, if I'm not mistaken. I expect that, given that we are going against the elections, we will have another six. Because, what is happening in the European space? So that anti-migrating rhetoric can bring some plus points or some success to the elections. The last such evidence was Sunday's elections in Germany, where the Alternative to Germany, in the part where the least migrants, received the greatest support, but this is precisely because the rhetoric against migration is working for extreme right parties. I think that they are also aware of this in the SDS party, so I expect that there will be more meetings of this kind and I will not personally explain that you are dealing with some patriotism, that it is because it means so much respect for the law, but that it is worth it or that such rhetoric is actually worth it in Europe. In this sense, I can't even blame you because you have results, and from this point of view it is logical that you will continue to do so. But what is the truth about migration in Slovenia? It is, however, such that, in the greatest inflow so far, the Republic of Slovenia has effectively managed migrants and refugees in a very exemplary manner. It must, of course, be stressed that it has not forgotten the most important thing, that it has also been able to think about the humanitarian aspect; and that it has also ensured the security of both the people who have been in these flows and our own citizens. Now, at least this government is often accused of closing borders because of us, but in fact, if we look at the situation, in my opinion it is not entirely true. Austria, Austrian policy has made various decisions that have gone this way, mainly due to internal political conditions. It has placed control at the border with Hungary, which has this border or border fence, like Slovakia, which has even rejected the quota system, although it will obviously have to implement it now or has already announced that it will be in effect after that decision by the court. Therefore, to explain that the procedure or manner in which the Slovenian Government acted is not entirely correct, I think. It is correct to say, however, that Slovenia, during the worst crisis and today, followed the measures that were necessary at that time. It did not go ahead and did not fall behind. That's the way I think it is, I think it's smart, so you don't have to take some measures you don't need yet, but when it comes to that need, you're ready to do it. We also heard this on the committee when we considered this proposal recommending that the Government also has precise procedures for the Italian border, how and what it will do if this pressure increases. So, we know, we control, we monitor the situation, and no matter what happens, the government, without scaring our citizens without knowing how and when it will act. This seems important to me that the Slovenian public knows that we do not at the same time arouse some fear, which then leads to some xenophobia and hatred. This, in turn, seems to me that if we encourage this, we will lead to some climate in Slovenia in a society that will be at least unpleasant, if not even worrying. When we talk about the cost of a migrant – because everything was expected today, from these images of attacks elsewhere that serve to scare people, of course, to the fact that some of the costs we have due to the migrant system are compared to the wages of workers and so on. But, look, even when you were in the government, it was necessary to have a certain infrastructure, it had to be maintained, it was necessary to hire people, so they were also costs in your time. This cost, a thousand 963, of course, if we had more applicants, this cost would be lower on the applicant than now that we actually don't have so many. But every government, including yours, especially since you had to adapt this asylum system after entry into European rules, had this asylum system and infrastructure and the people working on it, and even then it became a certain budget, so that this asylum system was still standing. If I'm done. Today in the Republic of Slovenia the government knows how and what to do. So what procedures will we have in advance and we know what we will do if this pressure increases, and I think there really was no need for such meetings already in July, except for the need for intimidation and the need for some political support among the voters of a particular party. In fact, the situation on the ground is such that Slovenia is in control of the situation and is also prepared if it is necessary, otherwise or if measures need to be stepped up, so that the situation we have today remains the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u131	The word has Dr. Vinko Gorenak, get ready for the mag. Dušan Verbič and Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Scare again, fear, fear again. Who's scaring who? Are you afraid of something? Is there anyone else in this room? Nobody's scaring anyone. We're talking about the fact that this side points to problems in time, and you do what we say with a distance of time, just like a echo in the mountains. That's it. Nobody scares anybody. And no xenophobia, no hatred, and so on and so forth. None. 40,000 people received this country from Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1994. I think I said the right information, maybe there were more. I think it's 70. I don't know, it doesn't matter. Thousands of people have been accepted. No extraordinary meeting was held in the National Assembly, and no one intimidated anyone. I know many people, I will say, are also members of our party, if you want, who at that time had and accepted at their home people from the war areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but ladies and gentlemen, these were children, older men and others. All right, disabled people and so on. There were no men between the ages of 18 and 60. They stayed home and created a country in the war. What is the structure of illegal migrants from 2015/2016? 68% men between the ages of 18 and 48! Even if they were official asylum seekers or international protection, they are not right. These are capable people who can create their country at home. But that's how they erased you, and those who would be needed for possible protection are left at home — women, old people, children. Don't try to convince me to do something that doesn't. But we're going in order. The minister spoke about the Ministry's key task and so on. I don't have a special problem with that. I hope it stays that way. She talked about fewer arrivals, probably not because of our thanks, but probably because of the situation in Europe as a whole. However, it should be pointed out that there are more asylum seekers in our country than there were years and years ago, if you wish. If you count those who are coming, and those who are imported, then there are many more than before on a long-term average. Except, of course, for the year 2,000 when we know what the situation was. Mr Ferruga spoke about this – “reinvested...” We'll do it five more times if we have to! Because right after when we do something this way, then you react. This is a problem for you to react too late in our opinion. “Fear.” Who's scaring who? Tell me one fact, one fact, tell me what I, my colleagues, or the Grimes' proponent was misinterpreted. Tell me one fact. But if you don't have it, then it's not a scare, but it's a figure of speech. We've heard of the "powering of the electoral base" before. So Mr. Zajc talked about candy, but I don't know what; in short, about his own election base. Tell me something. I've tracked down the data so that you can raise your pension on January 1st and May 1st. [[…]] Huh? Can you tell me why? And with what kind of money, how much more do you want to tell me? Tell me more! Why decades and decades at the end of the year or in the second half, why now on May 1st? Yes, you designed the lollipop! The bait, which she is called, "we will catch the pensioners, we will arrest them with a few Euros, and they will elect us because the elections will then be one May". Only one thing I have to say to these pensioners is that their pensions have increased by 25% from 2004 to 2008, not by two euros, but by three euros and five euros. Twenty-five percent! But then there was another government, so it's said, the government of Janša was and Desus was involved in that government. Now he's working on the left and they get two, three euros if they get anything or take anything from them. Well, now, this time they're melting. Look, it's populism, and it's powering -- it's not populism, actually, it's already ugly what you're doing. That's a bad thing to give five minutes before the election, and you say I'm going to get elected. Well, that's it. Let's move on. Mrs. Muršičeva spoke – what? That Slovakia and Hungary have lost in the European Court of Justice and must accept quotas. They lost, but their prime ministers said no to Brussels. And yet no aircraft has flown from Slovakia or Hungary to Greece or Italy to bring migrants. Not yet. Look, she forgot to say that. You have to give complete information, not just half. Not to mention what the Vatovec said. It's out of the question. I mean, now, that's not helping anymore, but you know. That's right, right in front of the amen, as they call it. He mentioned the arms affairs. As if the court had already investigated that story of the year — that is, the interwar story long ago — and five investigative commissions in the National Assembly, as well as the judicial branch of power. Directly. One day in 2000, the late Drnovšek told his own MPs that now stop making nonsense. He specifically said that to Mr Mohet, who was then the leader of a commission. After 17 years, the Vatovec comes and we're having a weapons affair again, as if it hadn't been for Patria's sake that everything had been decided long ago. But not that it's out of date. You've been tried for something that's not a crime. Now he doesn't understand. Despite his doctorate, he'll probably have to read something else to understand whether it's a populism. He spoke on the “catastrophic economic situation”. Between 2004 and 2008, pensions and salaries went up by 25%. Excuse me! Anyone who looks at me and doesn't believe it should look at the payroll from that time. But of course, I'm talking about the average. I'm talking about the average. This is not a catastrophic situation, but this is what our citizens need. Of course they get it in the right government, not on the left. That's not where he's going, is it? Anything else you'd like to say about those Slovenians or people of Slovenian origin who are said to be in Venezuela today? [[…]] Would you consider easing a marriage and making it easier for these people to come to Slovenia? These are people of Slovenian origin. You haven't thought about it yet. If we're going to make some kind of marriage, you're going to say we're going populism or something. But this is the country where they go to the left with a government plane down, their government plane, and they carry toilet paper with them because they know there's no toilet paper down there. It's that country, you know. And in a country like this, these gentlemen are trying to take us. Now they've gone out, even though they've got 3,000 euros to pay. Okay. Let's move on. Mr. Zajc still didn't understand, you know. Mr. Ferruga has these terms, and I would ask you to teach him what a migrant is, what a fugitive is. In fact, he has not yet heard the words of an illegal migrant, as it seems, he has only migrants and refugees on board. Since you know that, it would be nice if you taught him a little, because he is your fellow Member. In fact, many of us do, but he's obviously not yet. Let me just tell him that we have illegal migrants in Slovenia, because they don't jump out of the air with parachutes. He also said that Slovenia has always acted in a timely manner with appropriate measures in view of that moment. Oh, no, no, no, no, When you had to put the wire on the border, you screamed, not that it was intimidation, xenophobia, I don't know what it was. After it was a little hot, you bought the same wire – yes, at Orban, and you put it on the border. It wasn't the right time. It should have been six months earlier. As for his thousands of 963 euros, it is necessary to make it clear once again. Of course, even in previous governments we had an asylum home and we paid people who were there, but actually, the fact is what I said. If there were no asylum seekers, would there be — what? Electricity turned off, temperature given at +5 degrees to keep the pipes out, and one doorman would sit at the entrance. And all of this would cost a negligible amount. That's what I'm talking about. So it costs a thousand 963 euros per asylum seeker and you can't get past the data that at this point 440 euros is a full-time pension, 40 years of machine labor. You can't pass that information. So it's not a question of whether or not we're going to accept these people. We have proven in Slovenia in 1994 that we know that we can and are welcome, but those who need international protection, children, old people and women, not as it is now. Go through Ljubljana, go there to Kotnikov's, go to the neighbourhood of the asylum home, and see how many old men are on the bat — nothing as many children — almost nothing and how many women — almost nothing. All we have is men 18 to 50 years old. However, international legislation in this area does not offer an automatic right to international protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u133	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Prepare Mr. Andrej Chuš and Mr. Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State, very nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, including you! I must admit, when I listened attentively to the presentation of the parliamentary groups, I have had a very strong impression in listening to some of them, as if, if I may say so, at a pre-election meeting and not in the National Assembly, where we are discussing the agenda item, namely, the proposal for a recommendation on the migration crisis and the establishment of border control with the Republic of Italy. Except now that the honourable speaker, the Member, has touched on this subject a little bit, it is a simple debate, at least by the parliamentary group of candidates, that was everything other than this topic, and I miss it myself. But I'm still going to stick to these agenda items. As a Member, it would be unusual for me, as a representative of this National Assembly, to accept such a recommendation on a topic based on – and in particular referring to data or information from foreign media, in particular the Republic of Austria. I'm gonna let myself be a little provocative. Is this Austrian medium left or right? I don't know. I point out this mainly because at the end of last week we had a very difficult content to discuss, it was by the parliamentary group that today's proposal for the item was mentioned many times – Slovenian media that do not comment on whether it is a question or a correct comment. For this reason, I also wonder today whether this Austrian medium, which is the basis for this recommendation, is referring to the proposal itself, whether it is objective, left, right, neutral, whatever. This is mainly because I consider the proposaler of the SDS Group to be an extremely good knower, as regards security situations, a security issue. Here is my question of probability on the basis of such a recommendation that took place on the parental committee. I must admit that at the beginning of this we adopted an amendment to the Aliens Act. I admit, what was said by the MPs, yes, it was, if I may call it, a consensus, reason, whatever we may call it, we have adopted the so-called 10. a, 10 b section of the Foreigners Act and how it was needed. The fact is that these two articles are very committed to each government, including the current government, to very proactively, preventively uphold the provisions of these laws and to this end it has a number of mechanisms, headed by the so-called National Security Council and all subsystems, primarily in order to ensure security in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. The essence of what has been said several times today is the Institute of Security. However, a few words are needed in this regard. When it comes to security, it is important to keep in mind that safety is needed as a system of self-improvement, upgrading. We can find in this mandate very competently that in this segment all previous governments have been very macho towards this institution and the very importance of upgrading or preserving, not until improvements. Clearly, it's all about the money. Budget resources for the Ministry of the Interior have been rapidly reduced in this area, rather than increasing and worrying in the interests of the security of the responsible government: first, for an appropriate number of uniformed police officers; secondly, for their good equipment and, lastly, for their technical equipment. All of this means normal conditions for the provision of a basic mission within the Ministry of the Interior. Where are we today? The fact is that we are back before the so-called budgetary period. And the biggest problem is, which this government is now aware of and is looking for the possibility of providing funds for the employment of good 300 uniformed police officers, so that we can talk about security, so that we can reasonably have some arguments, how to ensure security also at the border with the Republic of Italy, whether funds will be provided for the normal equipment of uniformed police officers who are on the ground, not to talk about their technical equipment or the basic assets associated with their work. I am aware that the Secretary of State, who is not here, is now most likely a major problem, given that more and less are going around about money. Since I do not wish to politicise with the Institute of Migrants, Refugees and the like, I agree that the analysis of past events is still important precisely because of the direction of further activities, if any, but it is essential, at least as regards the National Assembly, that we consider how to ensure effective security for those bodies entrusted with and committed to ensuring the security of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the Secretary of State would have a concrete proposal in view of the fact that we know what problems you have with the Ministry of Finance in cutting up this so-called cashiers if you and the Minister are still trying to get to certain funds and I have a concrete proposal. My proposal is that, together with the Minister of Finance, who is the supervisor on behalf of the Government to DUTB and SDH, the Ministry of Finance simply cancels all advisory contracts to the two companies. As an overseer or as a representative of the Assembly, he certainly has this opportunity. The fact is, at the DUTB, which employs more than 200 top-notch experts, they still need a few million euro at the annual level for advisory contracts. Let these funds be earmarked for police equipment. As far as SDH is concerned, they are also hiring advisory contracts in the case of an abundance of experts. If I only take the example of a contract linked to Luka Koper, where the consultant charged over 150 000 euros for a study that was simply not reflected at all in the work process in Luka Koper. This proves once again that the funds, the state resources, are earmarked for completely different purposes than the interests of the State. That is why I really suggest, Secretary of State, that in your dialogue with the Minister of Finance in the Government, you put this problem on the table and that these funds should indeed be earmarked for security in the country. If you go with this activity, I can say with certainty that you will also have the support of individual Members of this National Assembly, because we are aware of what security means in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u135	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Again, we have a debate on the agenda on the migration crisis. We all see that somehow Europe's response to the migration crisis or illegal migration is still inadequate, uneven and we will probably have to rely more or less on ourselves in the future. Otherwise, I agree that we are helping those who are persecuted, but we need to ask ourselves which of these people today who are illegally going to Europe are being persecuted. I don't think we can count many. In fact, it is illegal migrants who exploit the plight of people from the past, who pretend to be refugees, and it is seen from afar that they are not even nearly refugees. I also wish and hope that there will be some conversion in neighbouring Austria, that Sebastian Kurz will be elected chancellor, who I think will bring into this European Union of sleepy leaders some freshness and a new wind, as well as courage, and then other people will follow it a little. When we talk about migrant quotas, I would remind myself that I have also tabled a proposal for a consultation referendum on the rejection of migrant quotas, but unfortunately with a few exceptions between the parliamentary groups, this proposal has not received sufficient support. I must also say that when I tabled this proposal and when we were rejected, I received quite a few letters, calls, messages on social networks, which have somehow gone in the direction of how sad it is that after 25 years we have become second-rate citizens in our own country. When we talk about terms or what a refugee is, what an illegal migrant is, I would also like in the National Assembly and even more honesty, both on the government side, even on the opposition, and of course even in some public discourse. I would also like to remember a number of protests by people in Slovenia, in the last few months, years – Lenart, Kidričevo and, of course, I could list them. Isn't it sad that people have to organize themselves against this country that wants to impose something without even asking and informing? Maybe we should just let it go. We've talked about this a lot. Of course, I would also like the government coalition to accept the good proposals of the opposition, which are large, and this proposal for a recommendation made by the Slovenian Democratic Party is in place and, of course, it would be worth considering; but unfortunately, somehow this coalition roller with the government SMC or the party of the migrant centre acted as it did. I also have to say when somehow my debate is going to end, because I have, unfortunately, a limited time. A politician who will not put his own people first is, in my opinion, not worth or should not be a politician. Otherwise, somehow, to conclude, the persecuted people are welcome, we'll help, but the crane sausages and the drill will not give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u137	Mr. Franz Breznik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u138	Thank you very much. However, I would like to return the debate to the essence, to the argument that makes it necessary to adopt recommendations, for which it is necessary to be pragmatic, for which it is necessary to feel and believe in the time and space that surround us and to follow something that may threaten us in the future. Where is Europe strategically, can we say, an extremely rich house? We can say that before the inadvertent new revolution is in the industry, which foreign media – or part of it is in the neighbouring Federal Republic of Germany. So we're ahead of the fourth industrial revolution, we're ahead of the electromobility, but we're below, we can say, the artificial intelligence that comes into our everyday lives. So we are ahead of the unfathomable changes that will make this European house even richer. On the other hand, this rich house here today, due to its very naive politicians, faces this rich house having an extremely cheap, modest lock on its door to enter this rich house. Aware of this is the rich Arab countries, the flow of refugees is not natural, but it is stimulated. Islam is particularly aware that the last century has done nothing to develop science, art, culture, everything else, because of this extraction of natural resources, oil and gas, contributes to the awareness of the rich Islamic countries of their clairvoyant end. This is also part of these migrations, and this is also part of the fact that these people also come illegally to the Republic of Slovenia, and of course to those richer countries in Europe, such as Germany, Austria, and, last but not least, Spain, France, etc. So for the first time, we need to be aware of our geostrategic situation. Secondly, we need to be pragmatic so that we do not ask ourselves again in the future so that we do not use the worst word. In defence policy, there are the worst words in strategies when there is a clairvoyant situation: now it is what it is. I don't want to hear those words here in Parliament, yes. Let's leave the past, now it's what it is. I don't want us to talk about this for the next year. The fact is, as a neighbouring country, Austria does not trust us. That's why all these controls are on the border. In the first stages you need to know, I have talked to a number of politicians, including Sebastian Kurz himself, his personal position is sharper and more radical than my position on these matters. Österreichische Volkspartei or the Austrian People's Party also had to distance themselves from the socialists and thus resolve their status. We can say that the centre of Graz, the capital of Stajerska, literally Muslim, in Vienna was a major problem in certain parts of Kolje Zajc earlier said to label these people, list to me how many of the 540 thousand Slovenians who live abroad were blown up. [[..]] List how many Poles, Czechs and all others, which are also large numbers in Germany, have blown up. He didn't. I was alone on December 19th last year in the evening hours in Berlin, a few hundred metres away from this Christmas fair, if I didn't have Styrian customs, and if I hadn't come to Berlin for the first time, I would probably have ended up with the victims at this fair. And when you see all these people, because then I was at dinner with a guest of one doctor who came from the night watch, explaining how many not only the dead but the disabled, the injured, the deformed limbs, the children, the women; then I realized how fast you could be the victim and how close an accident could be. Dear colleagues, what we are saying in the Slovenian Democratic Party is pragmatism, is something that some politicians should have most of the knowledge, experience, information that can create the destiny of their people. At this time, Slovenia is primarily part of the business environment, meaning security, security of this country, security of investment and security as one of the essential elements in which Slovenia has its strategic advantage at this time. We are sometimes critical of our business environment, which is uncompetitive, and security is what gives us competitiveness in possible investments. I'm sorry, as you know, I'm a man with a humanitarian note that I've also shown in those years when we had over 60,000 refugees in Slovenia; but illegal migration is number 0 for me. The state falls on its sovereignty, the most important constitutional element of the state falls when you do not exercise sovereignty at your borders. We have not transferred our sovereignty through the Treaty of Lisbon to the European Union; we must exercise our sovereignty, our security here and now. An increased flow of migration, which is already in our neighbouring countries, requires us to open our eyes. I was in Black Forest in September 2015 when the first migrants came to Slovenia. Since then, I have been able to convince myself, together with police officers, firefighters, that it is not a refugee, that it is typical illegal migrants with iPhones, with jeans dressed in textile clothes for a few hundred euros; and in an environment where our rural population has less than 200 euros in pensions, where we collect child stoppers, where most of the time we were underdeveloped compared to Ljubljana, is extremely underdeveloped. I'm sorry, we've set this country up for the Slovenian people. We have appointed this country to make our citizens better. We Slovenians and Slovenes are also humanitarian, we are willing to help; but forgive me, the entry of some people we have not summoned, who have nothing to do with refugees who survive their deaths or grave dangers, illegal migrants have nothing to do with it. We need to be aware of this and we need to separate it strictly, especially here and now. And this is no fear, it is that the surprise factor of many terrorist groups suggests that we can also face it in Slovenia. I never would have wanted that, I never would have wanted to see the bodies of the depraved Slovenes and Slovenes or children in front of the mall. I would never forgive myself for being too determined; even in the various recommendations, the various actions of the National Assembly. Because of this, respected colleagues and colleagues, what I would like to say myself, is pragmatism, is a blue head, there is something that history must teach us, which can teach us the Roman Empire or the Western Roman Empire in its last breaths during the year about 200 of our count by the year 450, when similar things were happening there. When the hordes of people came to Rome, then the lights went out in Rome, and in Europe it was literally about 600 years. Literally a topic in terms of civil progress. And also here, dear Slovenians and Slovenians, dear colleagues, I appeal to pragmatism, I appeal to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior to place clearly and loudly all possible matters on our Slovenian borders, to make it clear that Slovenia is an impenetrable country, that laws and rules apply to refugees and illegal migrants in Slovenia. And that's what we need to talk about. As you know, the Slovenian Democratic Party, mostly with its colleague Grims and my colleague Gorenak, we were also state-of-the-art when it came to police action. Dear Secretary of State, you are aware that we are not a party who throws pollen under the feet; when you faced the worst crisis in this area, we were the ones that were a nation-building party. Of course, this cooperation could be better, we could have fewer costs, fewer headaches, less problems if what colleagues Grims said today started to apply perhaps in the spring of 2015. I hope we've learned something from this. This is what we want to say, and we want to learn something from it. Before the new process, which I am deeply convinced about, we must not get to sleep that we must prepare for this flow with all our attributes, with all our resources, with the people, with the army, with the police, including with the security and intelligence services, cooperate as much as possible in this area and protect the Slovenia's borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u139	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. We continue with Mr. Laho and Dr. Dragan Matić. Mr. Marko Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Little wonder I listened to what I had previously heard from my colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party. I today printed Mrs Tomc's speech on the vote on migrant quotas, where she literally said: "I held that I supported the European Parliament's resolution on recent tragic events in the Mediterranean and the European Union's policy on migration and asylum. It was supported by all European Members, members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because our vote was in line with the opinion of our home party's summit. I also believe that the other members of the European Union have been obliged to assist them in solidarity." On the other hand, I heard quite the opposite of my opinion, so I am a little confused; however, we will always have two floors in this democracy — the antidote and another matter. What's interesting about this? It is always clear to us or this government that it has reacted late that we have never listened to the proposals of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I don't think so. I think that this government has shown a reasonable and procedural view of this crisis, in accordance with the limited resources and the opportunities it has. The viewers and listeners will explain this in their own way. Those who have some critical distance and who follow our debates in Parliament more closely, I think they already know who belongs and where the dog is praying. Believers of the Slovenian Democratic Party will know exactly what's on their side, and others will know what's on the other hand. I've always been of this opinion that you can't be sure of your conviction. But everyone has an opinion, that's right, democracy is right. For the time being, this government has shown that it has mastered these procedures, but what bothers me most is that, as a former police officer, it is a fundamental lack of confidence in the functioning of our authorities when we speak of the police. Because all of these recommendations on this migration crisis always raise questions as to whether the police are capable or monitoring, whether they know whether they can or will be able to. And that all of this has to be revealed because it's not going to work. And I think it is appropriate for this police to trust what has proved to be true in this refugee, migrant crisis, whatever you want to call it, that it has performed professionally like all other services, including the military, including civil protection and all others, to have played it right. You're talking about that it was only Miro Cerar, d. o.o., transporting migrants, that's how you can take this matter. But if you've mentioned this pragmatism before, if you're a pragmatic man and you have this huge amount of people, I'd do it as soon as I can to get them through as soon as possible. We know what problems they had with logistics, how to feed them, how to process them, and all these things. Now to be smart about what would be better and how ideal it would be – unfortunately, there are no ideal situations. This migratory crisis has in fact shown all this powerlessness in the European Union, has shown that Slovenia is small, as it is, but that it was able to react; and it has the right response. I think it's been a success in time. And now through to show how and what we could do and then compare ourselves to Austria, which came to the border. We know that in Austria there are now these elections and we need to tighten up a little bit and it's nice to hear it up for those right-wing voters. The tendency is more right-handed, more restrictive. But with some reasonable policy and with some confidence in our security authorities – including intelligence authorities that monitor the situation not only around our neighbours, probably even longer – I think that this can be done in some rational, optimal way, as is the work of this government and the competent ministries. I don't see any special reasons why we have to keep interpreting this and repeating it, because then people get the feeling that it's really so stressful around here that nothing happens. Well, when it doesn't happen, jobs work. Because jobs won't hang on the big bell, what they do and what methods they have. In fact, we have to trust them in some way, so we also have a committee under the supervision of Mr Grims, who is doing his job, we have a lot of security guards in all directions, as you wish. But once we have a normal situation, not some schizophrenic situation, when we are working through some pressure and then the media is happy to continue to broadcast these signals of negativity, we are not doing the right steps that I want them to take, that the situation is under control, that the economy recovers, that there are possible steps forward. Yeah, if they're really good suggestions, we'll support them, because I don't see why not. This ping-pong doesn't lead anywhere in the long run. This has already proved in these 25 years that we are standing in one particular place and are not able to make the breakthrough, the step forward that is needed for all; and which is also good, because it will start to show this positivity, as our basketball players have shown us, who are really bright exceptions and really show what all of us, including politicians, can do, even if we are responsible in this, look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u141	We have another debater, Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would also like to join the motioner's concerns about our border. We must be aware that the European border is at the border between Croatia and Slovenia, that there is a Schengen area, that European legislation giving Slovenia the task of protecting this border, and we have just left half a million of these migrants, not refugees, across our borders. Fortunately they moved on, the vast majority of them, now the road has closed down, more or less; yet there is still an open road through Italy. As the proposalr said earlier, what a large number of these migrants have settled in the developed part of Italy, in the north, even near our border, which is not well protected by Slovenia, so that these migrants do not settle, come to us because of their numbers. Some political groups are invited and you want them to stay as comfortable as possible with us, regardless of the cost of being truly hospitable and giving everything; on the other hand, we do not care enough for our citizens. If we were to respond as sovereignly as the Hungarians, the Austrians, because we have all the reasons for this, because we are a milestone between Europe and the Middle East, if they were already launching neighbouring Croats, we should do something different. The opposition warned of this at the time, but no one thought about it, and later you did exactly what was proposed earlier, when the matter was already quite late. The government first gave one network, a lot of costs to set up a wire network, and then it was found that this was not the best; and new costs with panel fences, not across the whole border, only in certain parts. And it can't stop if there's not enough military or police control in the back. Because what is it to climb this fence or to break into this fence at least where there are doors that are in multiple places?Oh, my God! That's why I don't think we're ready. I'm also disturbed by the cost. What costs do we recognise for these migrants in Slovenia? A few days ago, we also received a letter from various humanitarian institutions, such as Amnesty International, protesting that for foreigners who are admitted to us, the proposal should be to wait a year and that those who come to Slovenia should also have proof if their relatives come after him that they have a chance of survival here. I think that's right. Even ours, if they're going to Western countries or years ago when they had to go, had to prove it. Not everything was offered to them — hospitality, strangers. We also have many of these from the former brother republics in Slovenia after independence, but there is no talk of how much costs, how much social support goes to the families of those who came to Slovenia ten years ago, and now entire families have moved to us. In our part where we have many Roma, some wonder how much he has paid for social support and how high they are for these Roma families. And those who have insight say that this is nothing against those who have moved with their families from the former republics, that those ten times are so many; that we are not talking about various health services, about lifting and sending medicines from Slovenia to the former republic, and so on, because we are too hospitable. But if we are to these former brotherly nations, we must treat these migrants differently, like everyone else, us who are on the verge. And I think that, as we should be doing at the border with the Republic of Croatia, we must also act here in a much sharper and more sovereign way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u143	Mr Boštjan Šefic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u144	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I will not answer those questions, which we have already made very clear several times in the past period, and also argue that they relate to the first migration Jacks in 2015 and until March 2016. I think it was so well and in detail explained that it would be unconstructive to repeat. In this introduction, however, I would like to point out in particular that we do not underestimate this challenge at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the entire Government, which we are discussing today. We have also made this very clear in all the debates we have had, including at the last meeting of the Committee devoted to this subject, and we have stated very precisely what measures we are taking to ensure that the matter will be under control and that we will do the work that we are entrusted with and which we are also entrusted with in accordance with the legislation. I think this government is working very well all the time. On the one hand, we take appropriate action at the green border. We additional officers have engaged directly in the protection of the border and, as far as compensatory measures are concerned, have strengthened these teams with colleagues from the Slovenian Army who have been helping us all this time in accordance with their options. We'd like more, but right now their chances are what they are. We're carrying out systematic surveillance at our border crossings. We have also carried out significantly more measures than in the past, i.e. at the border crossings themselves, and we have been successful in doing so. Therefore, we also believe that this systematic control at our external borders is extremely important and successful. In doing so, we must not forget certain technical measures we have taken; and we are also carrying out legislative activities, as has already been mentioned today; and in activities aimed at strengthening our capacities, as far as the police and other authorities are concerned. We are also well connected with other state authorities, not only with the Slovenian Army, but we are also implementing internal measures with Furs and some other services. This, on the one hand, ensures that this is impermeability; and that we protect our Slovenian border in the first place and at the same time the Schengen border is maximum good. On the other hand, even in line with the views of this national assembly and what you are today, honourable Members and Members of Parliament have also pointed out — let us make provision for those who need this help and who, in one way or another, resort to us in these procedures. This does not mean, of course, that someone seeks international protection so that if he is unjustifiable, he may also receive it. This is also shown by concrete data. But those who are justified, it's only right that they get it. Here I have a feeling that we are in agreement; and in this area too this government has taken an important step by establishing an office that works well. I think there are also positive results from this angle. It is one balanced policy and a balanced adoption of measures, and therefore the result is the same as it is. Our success in protecting the Schengen border shows, for example, that data which has not changed in recent weeks, the passage or illegal migration from Slovenia to Austria in the period since 14. 8 to 10. 9, after weeks; this was -0.0.0.0. So there are no illegal migrations from Slovenia to Austria. And the fact is that the number of illegal transitions from Slovenia to Italy is minimal, and for these, together with Italian colleagues, we find that it is people, as the Minister has stated, people from Italy to Slovenia, the same situation is the other way around; it is people who are passing through, otherwise they are legal here, but they do not have documents and so on. Another situation is, in the same period I mentioned, from Hungary to Austria, followed by 105 persons in the first week, 96 in the second week and 62 and 50 in the second week. For example, from Italy to Austria – 146, 145, 105, 94; migration from Slovakia to Austria is also increased and Austria is taking certain measures. It bothers us that some of the measures, i.e. the occasional tightening of control at our former border crossings, are at current, as they say, checkpoints, because that is not necessary at all. These are facts, and from this point of view, our ministry and the government have already made it very clear many times. However, it is another thing for Austrian colleagues to take compensatory measures, such as Slovenia and all other countries, within themselves. This is even an obligation of countries, not something that someone would invent, but also a duty under Schengen law to do so. Some of the drastic measures that have been taken in individual countries have already been taken several times, even in this national assembly, I have said that absolutely, despite all these measures, they have not been able to prevent the absolute illegal crossing of borders. We are also aware of this, so we are taking proportionate measures; this is also what we intend to do in the next period. As far as security in the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, I am sure that everyone in this Chamber, and we are also aware that Slovenia is one of the safest countries in Europe, that this is influenced by a number of factors; but it is certainly one of the important factors that is the good work of security and information structures, which is reflected on the long lines, not in a month or two, but in many or more years. At the same time, we are aware that due to the situation in Slovenia, this can change relatively quickly. We are well aware of this and are therefore taking appropriate measures. The Chairman of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services knows, because we often report on which activities we are taking, some of which we have also explained on the Committee on Internal Affairs, and I will not repeat them now. But that's what matters. It is very important that we also take preventive measures with this so-called R & D platform, which we are trying to train all those key factors for early perception of radicalism in all structures and in all areas. This is what will have a positive effect. This is also a long-term task and it is impossible to provide it within fourteen days, but in this area we are working extremely intensively, qualitatively, so that some neighbouring countries are very interested in our approach and we have already agreed on an exchange of experience just so that some of our approaches can be properly applied to their work. I agree with those of you who have pointed out that we are not dealing with the origin of this problem, these illegal migrations, the reason. I agree with those who say that migration will continue in the coming years, and this will be intense, due to a number of factors that we are facing. Some are objective, such as climate change, some are subjective, these are war, fighting for certain raw materials and so on. In short, some strategic issues that affect this. However, I must say that we ourselves, and you know this, in the National Assembly, in the Council of State and elsewhere, have proposed to have an in-depth discussion on how to deal with these migrations in the long term. The fact is that there has never been a great interest in this, but I agree that this would be extremely important for Slovenia from an internal political point of view, as well as from an external policy point of view, because it would be easier to discuss these issues within the European Union as well as wider with those countries that are crucial in fully addressing this truly great migration challenge. Close and active cooperation with our colleagues in many surrounding countries is very important and extremely intensive with countries V4, with Italy, including Austria, the Republic of Croatia, all. I am aware of and agree with the fact that this does not guarantee that we will not face this challenge again in a certain period of time for more illegal migrants; but it is extremely important that we somehow encourage these countries and, in particular, the countries on this Western Balkan migration path to better cooperation and to jointly address this challenge. And here are the results. That's a fact. If that were not the case, we would have a worse situation in the Republic of Slovenia today. These activities, with the intensive work of our security authorities as well as all others, including our ministry, produce the result of stability in this area. We have the least applicants for international protection compared to all other countries, we have the least illegal migrants, because we actually manage things well. The initiative was mentioned by the President of the Committee on the Interior and Public Administration. I must say that we work very well and constructively with the Ministry of Finance and the entire government. You will also be considering this in this national assembly in the coming months, and I hope that we will receive your support. The government has allocated some additional funds for 2018 compared to the budget adopted, so that some things can be continued, police equipment, state-building, as far as this is concerned, so that the police can be effective. We are also investing more in training, which we have failed in recent years. Migration, terrorism and some of the other issues we are currently facing remain a challenge, and this is also the rehabilitation of the situation in the human resources field since 2007, 2009. By the last year, we had reduced the staffing plan by about a thousand police officers, which is unacceptable. We are also now proposing to the government, including on the basis of Frontex's recommendation, that we increase the staffing plan for 300 police officers so that we can manage all these challenges that I mentioned earlier. I believe that we will reach an agreement in the government and then in this House that we will actually do this and help this police to make it easier, even more effective, to face all these challenges. In the end, as far as trust is concerned. I do not agree with those who have found that Austria does not trust us. On the contrary, Austria trusts us very much. However, as I said about the data, it has great challenges at some other borders – Slovakia, Hungary, Italy. This is also why, as has been predicted, there are only occasional tighter controls and the implementation of compensatory measures. We are working well with them and will continue to strengthen this cooperation. However, we still do not agree that anything should be done here at all because Slovenia is doing its job more than well. As far as Italy is concerned, I must say that I have also been to the talks in Italy, and we have also received from the Italian authorities the recognition that due to our actions, the migration flow from the Western Balkan route has virtually stopped to Italy. We have also made it very clear that we will take all the necessary measures if any matter turns to the Central Mediterranean route. There is no doubt about it, and here, as far as Slovenia is concerned, things are clear. It is true, however, that at this point in the migration route none of the services, none of the police administrations in this area, is aware of anything that would indicate particular concern. However, it is also perfectly clear and this is also known in these structures that this control is tighter and if anyone tries, this probability of being kept at the border is extremely high. Finally, what Mr Lah mentioned, which concerns the Aliens Act, which we will also discuss in the coming days. Then there will be an opportunity to say more on this subject, which has been exposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u145	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which you get, if you wish, the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u146	First, I must say that I am pleased with today's debate. He gave me some great starting points, Mr. Ferruga. Even in the last debate, when he asked himself so nicely, "Is there something going on with the migrants? Well, let's see. Only a few days ago we were able to read the news of two migrants stealing from cars, one of them violently resisted arrest and was from this circus across half of Ljubljana. Today, we can read that three migrants cut themselves or one staged something else at an asylum home because they got negative decisions, and then they took advantage of the opportunity, they all escaped, and they're on the run. Before that, the police confirmed what I said at a press conference. I hope you've all made sure I'm not talking to you once. Police are investigating one case of sexual violence of migrants. That's what you say, Mr. Ferruga, it's happening, it's happening, it's happening. When it comes to the question that we are dealing with today, two things cannot be said. You also used the words: "Yes, now it is possible to be smart back. With all due respect, let's see what I said in the spring, in the summer, in the autumn of 2015 at some press conferences. I told you exactly what would happen, I told you exactly how it was; today you're all repeating it, and then even in the fall I heard that I was an extremist and how terribly surprised the government is. It is horribly surprising that the migrants came, that the government was horribly surprised by the actions of our neighbours, and the government was horribly surprised that none of the neighbors had kept their agreements. I've been saying all the time that all you have to do is rely on your own strength. And so on. Don't say it's easy to be smart for the back. This may be true for you, but we have warned in due time; you have only sat on your ears, because what we have warned has not been right for you. Today may be a somewhat different atmosphere, but then I would suggest that we at least speak properly. When it comes to trust, that's what you and the government were talking about. The answer to this is in a simple statement by Winston Churchill on politics: “Trust is good, but control is even better.” And that is also true in this area. This also calls for such a debate to be understood primarily as a space for this debate to open and to draw attention to the many things that all of this is opening up. Some, I hope, have been able to rightly point out today. What is the problem with this whole story, and I hope you are all aware of it, at least in this part, even if someone is speaking differently now, it is not nearly the end of the story, it is not a calm story, but it is a story that we will face for years; unless someone uses that magic word in the responsible function that you all know, and no one in the responsible function hopes to say it; and in a moment it will be over. But the fact is that migrants are not driven – as they were said years ago – that a space has been prepared for this migratory flow – the fear of survival, the cruel wars, we listen to left-wings: the attack of the West and so on. Migrants are at the moment driven mainly by money, politics, interests and money. Everything else is practically negligible. If anyone doubts this information, he can look at two numbers. The first is who's coming to Slovenia right now. You may have an idea of this from the words of the Minister, if you have listened to it very carefully. Practically none of those found were actually from those areas in Syria and Iraq that are still in conflict, virtually none. But the vast majority are from countries where there is no more war or even long gone. That's the problem. These are not some refugees, they are migrants who are coming to stay to transform Europe in their image. That's why I'm saying that this relationship between left-wing people who politically support it because they falsely hope for political benefit, they're horribly wrong here, and Hayek was right when he said, "If left-wing people had any idea, they'd never be left-handed." Why are they wrong? Look what's going on in Sweden. In Sweden, for the second time, she has tried to register, I think this time even a successful Muslim party. And then it's over when the lefties count on these and these voices. The situation in Britain is slightly different because of the system they have there. As a result, they still have some symbiosis and are benefiting from it politically. In Sweden, these benefits have virtually come to an end, only how long it will take for all these generations that have benefited from this to be able to admit that their successors have screwed over on the whole line, which is, after all, quite right. The only problem is that they screwed up, but this time I am very serious, my entire country and all the people and residents, human security. In Sweden today you have a no-go zone, you have a day-to-day burning car, you have scenes like those we saw from Antife, which is the second part of one and the same monster in Hamburg, it looked like someone dropped a nuclear bomb. And for this reason, I warn you that migrants are no longer driven by any fear of survival and similar fairy tales that we have listened to. And the question of how many of them are ever in history. Indeed, refugees have always been, yes, in neighbouring countries; but those who move forward have other interests and other goals. And migrants today, the migrant flow as a whole drives the money in the first place. When it comes to radical Islam, it is primarily Arab money, as well as some, which is particularly sad, well-known financial eloquents. Even those who live in the United States or elsewhere, even if they may be from Hungary or some European country, have ever been members of the SS, by the way. In short, these people give money because they have an expected benefit. This is played, with fates, with people's lives, with human security; not only those who are in the target countries and who are then actually innocent victims, but also all those who are on the road. Here it must be said that Europe is making a terrible mistake. If Europe really wants to help these people, it should help where they come from. All that being invited here is terribly expensive, long-term destructive, civilizational questionable and conditional on what I started with – with political interests and money. That's why people are dying; they're dying on European soil, and I've shown some horrible pictures about it at the beginning. Regrettably, if you don't show these images, they're just numbers. One picture says more than a thousand words, and for some time now I have been asking all the media, including all the Slovenian media, how is it possible that they have shown images like that drowned boy, a tragedy; they do not show these images that people would be aware of what is actually happening on European soils. And don't think we're an island of security in the middle of Europe. Even from what the Minister has said before and now the Secretary of State, this should be clear to everyone and everyone. Therefore, it is necessary, in time, to anticipate and strengthen these things, on the one hand, to protect the borders, to give a clear signal to these people, that we defend our borders, that we defend the safety of people, that we protect women and children. This should give a clear signal that Slovenia does not become a target country. If a European Commissioner comes, as he did a few weeks ago, and he is pleased to say that Slovenia will now become a target country for migrants, not only temporary; such a European Commissioner should be asked after health and recommended one longer stay in a beautiful Burning environment, such as in Refugees, where such people are meant to take advantage of fresh air and clear their brains. This should be done. Above all, it is necessary to be aware of our own responsibilities. With all that is happening now, we are not doing or touching the fate of the country for the next few months, but we are really deciding the fate of the nation and the country for the next few decades, because it is a question of when things are manageable and when they are still being rectified. Some European countries are already dealing with this, even if no one says it out loud. Belgium, France, in part Spain, in part Germany, the huge question whether they still have a long-term solution, taking into account migratory flows, taking into account illegal migratory flows, taking into account their fertility. Slovenia is still a safe country today, as much as the authorities themselves do not influence that this security is diminishing. But if we want to maintain this, we must be aware, however, that we are not an island in the middle of Europe, that we can rely only on our own equipment and in the long term, that security structures need to be strengthened, in the first place the police and also the military, that we are truly capable of protecting our borders ourselves and that we cannot rely on anyone in these tasks when it comes to security. Relying on no one. However, it is necessary to look for those with whom we can cooperate with what is right, not only security, but, in the long term, economic and other integration, which have a similar fate, similar interests, similar culture, similar history. Therefore, for two years now, for almost three years now, I recommend that cooperation with the countries of the Visegraj Group be strengthened. They are willing to cooperate with us, they want to cooperate, and it is only up to our will to accept it, whether we are strengthening it, or whether we are strengthening it. And in the long term – I am firmly convinced as things are happening so far – this is the only long-term option for the preservation of Slovenia as a safe country for the development of its prosperity and for the long-term survival of the Slovenian people. At the same time, we must not forget that there is another aspect of security – the issue of development and prosperity. Security is becoming increasingly good today, not only in a defensive sense, but also in an entrepreneurial sense, it is getting its price. The price is to move capital where countries are safer to move entrepreneurs to where countries are safer, where their production is safer, where they have a safe company, where they are safe and secure, where their investments are safe and secure, where they know that no one will threaten them, because they have a different opinion or even attack them. And this must be borne in mind today, if we want to develop more rapidly tomorrow, that this development aspect of prosperity, the aspect of becoming a country of rich people, is important when we decide on the issue of security; because security on the one hand is a value, and on the other hand the good that is at the heart of everything. Therefore, it is a matter of responsibility, soundness of mind, and timely action. Only in this way can it be preserved, for security is, unfortunately, the value that is in something that is exactly the same as health — we realize its meaning when we lose it. When we decide on this in the National Assembly, then there is the question of what we are setting as a long-term goal. We have defined two, this is a question of a safe country, a question of development, a question of human well-being. If we maintain these two, build them, ensure, then the last question of the long-term survival of the Slovenian people is. The Slovenian Constitution makes it very clear what the Slovenian state is. Slovenia is a country of the Slovenian nation and is also obliged to provide long-term survival to the nation as a nation. It is said that, from this point of view and also from a fully human point of view, it is necessary to create not only conditions for successful entrepreneurship and a secure life, as we have all been accustomed to all these years; but also to strengthen the well-being and all the decisions of those involved – governments, parliaments, anyone – to benefit children, to make decisions for life, for more children, because this is the only way that everything will have meaning in the long term. If we achieve this and when we achieve it, which all shows that we will have to vote quite differently than we have been elected so far, then we will all together justify our trust in the last elections. However, if someone has not justified this by his actions, if someone has allowed himself to have systematically violated Slovenian legislation, international treaties and regulations five hundred thousand times, he will probably have to leave his function to someone else. That is why power is in the hands of the people, and what we owe to the people, first and foremost, is security, security and responsibility. Responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, means that consistent and at all levels there is respect for the rule of law, that this is required unconditionally of everyone and everyone and that it does not fall within naive words. A vote was mentioned earlier. You know, those votes two years ago were conditional on the assurances of the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Cerar when it comes to quotas, and this will, I quote, “encourage 16 to 20 people, and this from vulnerable groups”. That's 16 to 20 women or children. I never bought it, never, and I said I should be absolutely against it. Some believed at the time because they believed that it was a government that was responsible for people and who knew what they were doing. But unfortunately, it turned out to be different. Today, we all know that this story will never end and that everything must therefore be done to protect Slovenia, to protect the security of people, to eliminate radical Islam, to stop the flow of illegal migrants and to enforce a principle that is only real. Only the principle of no illegal migrant ensures long-term security. And when it comes to respect for the rule of law, to all steps in the same manner and with the same standards. After all, this is what the Constitution requires; or first, if you want, the Slovenian Constitution also requires it. And if justice never and no one could stand up to anyone else, or if I was specific, I would have remembered what I was saying two years ago, and today I am saying the same thing. The rights of anyone coming from abroad to Slovenia cannot and must not be greater than the rights of those who live here than the rights of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thus, when it comes to security, the issue of the safety of Slovenian citizens and citizens must first be at the table. That's why they're countries. This was the American President's saying – there is only that country that defends its borders; and only that international community that defends its external borders. Under these criteria, neither Slovenia nor the European Union now exist at all. This needs to be restored, people need to regain power, trust in democracy, the voice they have; and trust in the country, in state institutions, in security needs to be restored. Only then will democracy work, and only such a country can in the long run be the foundation of prosperity. In order to ensure this, however, it is necessary to take short-term action to ensure what is at the heart of everything and what we are talking about today – security. Ladies and gentlemen, security is like value and a good foundation for everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u147	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If they wish to discuss the proposal's representative, they also recommended mags. Branko Grimes and the government representative, please also report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each applicant shall have 5 minutes at his disposal. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I would like to make a few more words concerning the migrant policies of the Republic of Slovenia as well. As you can see, after the Venezuelan crisis, there have been more than a thousand Slovenians and Slovenes who want them because of the totalitarian communist regime, where opposition policies are being closed, very much like before our last elections. More than a thousand Slovenes and Slovenes live on the brink of poverty, wages are currently less than €60 in Venezuela, especially for chronic patients lacking medicines, and human rights are massively violated. Here again we have a country that is a crisis, which, on the one hand, could be the richest, has incredible reserves of oil, fertile land, but the attempt to reintroduce socialism has brought this country, we can say, to the brink of breaking. That is why all those who speak of migrants or refugees and the government ask what we will do for the Slovenes and the Slovenes. Their ancestors fled the Communist dictatorship after World War II. The second generation is now experiencing a new attempt at socialism and after twenty years of clarinets the end of this socialist experiment. I have addressed the question of the Member States, I am aware of this situation, and here we should step together and help the Slovenians and Slovenes against any unprotected illegal migration, I repeat, illegal migration through Slovenia. On the other hand, Secretary of State, here I appeal to you, you have legislation, we have prepared it together. You are aware, as you have heard today, that the security situation in Italy is extremely questionable. If you just take a ride into the nearby Trieste or Trbiz, you can see that there are young people walking around the village in a crowd and without any control, fighting a capable man, dealing with very few families, children, or older persons, and that all these people are security-questioning. Especially since our borders with the Republic of Italy are poorly controlled, poorly transparent and have numerous holes. As you may have heard in the recommendation, the Austrians are aware of this and therefore in Brenner and everywhere they are strengthening, even with the help of the army, they are protecting the border because they are aware that there are new incursions, uncontrolled, security-questioning people in the Republic of Austria. That's what I was talking about today. I have repeated the word pragmatism, and I will repeat and appeal again if you want any further assistance, if you think that legislation is lacking in this area, if the powers are too weak, I think that anything can be fixed, that the Slovenian Democratic Party will always be doing a state-of-the-art policy along with you, we will help you to protect the borders. At the first stage with the Republic of Italy and in other stages, however, I think that this strong defence with the Republic of Italy will bring us a more relaxed border for our citizens and citizens at the borders of the Republic of Austria. [[…]] This means better movement of daily people, our people who go to work in Austria daily; and also our people who work in transport and in other areas. For Slovenians and Slovenes, this would allow for a better flow and, on the other hand, this secured border with the Republic of Italy would also protect our national security. Therefore, the Secretary of State, since the Minister is no longer here, accept my appeal in this address. In such cases, in such questionable situations, me and my colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party have always acted in a state-of-the-art manner, and we intend to continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u149	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. I know Mr Grimes is always, and he's just telling the truth, and he's not lying at all, but sometimes he can get a little confused. And I'd like to show him the last quote he said. “Trust is good, and control is even better,” said one of the authors, who is probably not very good at heart. That's Lenin. But I respect that mistake. Every time a person speaks so much and so much, sometimes there's some mistake. As far as control and trust are concerned, we are each on our own shore, as far as we can see these things. Everyone will have their arguments for and against, so, as I said before, democracy is very welcome. There will probably be only a different view of these matters and action when governments change; if they do and when they do, we will see it. The second thing I wanted to say and slightly replicate to Mr Lach is Christian Democrats, but only in this speech was there somehow no sense of this Christian mercy and of these speeches that Pope Francis had on this subject. I think Mr. Lah is probably still swinging between where he was and where he wanted to go. Articles 13 and 14 of the Constitution, if I may remind Mr Lach, speak of these matters, so it would be good for us to take a look at this together. But if the desire to do the country is only and exclusive to the pure Slovenes, let us put all this debate into some interesting logic, which then goes into some extremes that probably would displease many people. I think it is very wise that we are rational, realistic in these discussions and that we are also looking at a positive future, as I mentioned earlier, and that we are really trying here, which is supposed to be responsible to the politicians, to speak for some patient agreement and discussion. Not only do we speak with patience, even argumentatively, because after we begin to draw each one on some extremes and on some deceptions, then one suffers from a taste. I think that's also why ordinary people, citizens are somehow caught up in this policy, where they don't see a future. But this is literally just about overplaying one and the same thing. Some draw on one side, the other on the other side, but not what I would like to see, some red thread that stretches, regardless of the government, whether it is left or right; but to pull this red thread, which is good for Slovenia, to somehow drag it into some country of prosperity. As I said, regardless of customer affiliation, I think it is our responsibility to be constructive and not to look at anything other than what is good for Slovenia. At times, though, when we listen to ourselves, we look; perhaps the people who look at us have a different feeling. Also, these recommendations, which have been made today, I think they are going in a single counterproductive direction, not in a direction where we could sit down and agree; but they are a more propaganda option that has no arguments; except that we want to do everything in a sensational way to be grabbed by the media. It's on some broken bases, even if we're pulling some parallels that are not foreign to us, about some foreign terrorists in our country, and so on. It's very easy to operate on this data, and I don't see any big point in talking about it here. I have great confidence in our services, and that trust will remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u151	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u152	You know, you can also find a picture on the Internet of American President Abraham Lincoln who says, "Everything you see online is true. The problem with the Internet is that it usually assigns one river to more and then everyone can choose the one that suits it. This is not a mistake, but the problem is that images are made from everything on the Internet. But the river's right. I hope that because of this, even if we recognize the authority you have given us, you will not say that the river is not justified today. In any case, trust is good in politics, but control, including in the broadest sense, control of people in elections is even better. Even above you, because before you said you were in favour of the rule of law, you voted for it and with your government you let half a million illegal migrants across Slovenia. And now Slovenia in the next government can keep a little quiet, which of these will get back, because sooner or later something will happen, that is a fact. Under European rules, if we are to be consistently implemented, and you need to know this, the member who enters the European Union is responsible for the entry into the European Union and for the responsibility for the Schengen equivalent. And if the asylum goes into the European Union, it should, under the Dublin Agreement, make a request in the first country it enters. This country should take a decision on behalf of the whole of the European Union. Things as they are now, they are reliablely illegal, they are clearly contrary to the rules. The fact is that security, if we leave now all that we are talking about, in terms of legal or perhaps bureaucratic principles on the side, security is the area where we should reach consensus. And serious countries do. This is, for example, a story very well controlled by our Croat neighbours. When it comes to fundamental foreign policy issues when it comes to fundamental security issues, they are unified earlier; and when they come up against others, they are uniform. And that's why they're effective. And there are a number of areas, these are fundamental development issues, respect for the rule of law, respect for human rights, the security of people, where I firmly believe that everyone should also follow this objective, so that, wherever possible, we reach consensus. And with all my responsibility, I say that we do the same in the Slovenian Democratic Party all the time. If you want two cases, you and your secretary. When the Minister came with an amendment that would practically put things in the way that, in fact, those who enter Slovenia through a secure state are clearly not refugees, but are migrants and then treated in accordance with a different legal order; we supported this amendment. You too, at first, then someone is somewhere, probably the Minister of Justice, as I hear from the backstage, was grappling and achieving with your power that you voted against your own minister, twice, because then we repeated the exercise. And you have left your own minister alone, including the Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party. And the second time this story was repeated, in a slightly different form when it came to the law governing this area. This isn't exactly a long time ago, because you all remember well. The law was passed, but it was adopted only because we voted for it by all of the Slovenian Democratic Party because we considered it a good proposal, even if it was prepared by your government; because it is an area where we should reach consensus. Sadly, though, a large part of the coalition has again left its own government and its own minister behind. Then ask yourself, what is this coalition and where is this issue of achieving a security consensus that would be on my opinion in these difficult situations, in these security encounters that have no comparison in the last 25 years, all from the victory in the war for Slovenia onward, still essential. Consensus should be necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve it, not only at a closed meeting of the National Security Council; but here, where it is for this place, in the Slovenian Parliament, where security should be the first and last words.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u153	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2005 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 17.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u154	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. The interruption was a little longer because it would be rude not to accept the Polish Foreign Minister. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will carry out the voting in accordance with the following order: 26, 25, 24, 3, 4, 20, 5, 6, 8, 9, 23, 29, 30, 21, 22, 28, 16, 14 and 1 item on the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period July 2017–December 2018. The amendments to the supplementary proposal for a declaration have not been tabled, so we are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a declaration. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the competent working bodies have made the proposal for a declaration inconsistent. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members shall be mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We alone and my colleagues will not support this declaration or vote against it. The reason — not a single word in this declaration mentions the application of arbitration. And it's unacceptable or actually I don't know how the government intends to do what it says; words simply aren't enough. The argument, that the application of arbitration is important for Slovenia and that it deserves a place in this declaration, is that, as stated on the Committee, the arbitral ruling was adopted or handed down to us later than this document was prepared at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This, of course, cannot and must not be an argument. I regret that, despite the fact that I have highlighted this on the Committee on Foreign Policy and I wanted the amendment to be drafted by the Government together and to include it in an appropriate way, this has not been supported by colleagues and colleagues. Today you will adopt the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in the period July 2017–December 2018 without any mention of the importance of the implementation of the Arbitration Agreement for our country. I think it's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u156	Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. This declaration is primarily non-ambitious. Perhaps even more, it could be renamed a declaration on the German observation of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. We have already proposed several amendments on the Committee in Levica to increase this ambition in the field of environmental protection, for example with regard to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, with regard to greater caution as regards free trade agreements, rather than learning nothing from the CETA case, and also with regard to the liberalisation of the road transport market. We know what the drivers are doing, especially the smaller combined vehicles, where virtually no tachograph controls are available and there is actually a great deal of exploitation. Similarly, we have seen how it is with liners. If we just look at a few weeks ago a strike by drivers of one of the major bus groups in Slovenia, things are clear. Because of this lack of ambition or any ambition on the part of the Republic of Slovenia to act within the institutions of the European Union, we will vote against this declaration in Levica because it simply does not express some active state of this country in order to fight for a better life of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia, but only in some way a silent footstep for larger countries in the euro area and above all that comes as a dictatorship from Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u158	We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour and 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the declaration has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance of the Republic of Slovenia We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 25. 9. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to chapter Objective, starting point and principles. Dr Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u159	Yes, with the amendment, we propose deleting the text “including the economy”, which refers to what are the main objectives and stakeholders in offering international development cooperation, humanitarian assistance, for a simple reason, because we cannot take the economy as a separate part of society. We know that Slovenia is working and engaging in international development cooperation as a whole, society as a whole. To stress exclusively the economy or especially the economy – from this point of view, in the first place, it makes no sense. We also know, as set out in the motion for a resolution, that the economy is given a great deal of weight, but in a kind of a wrong way, especially as opening up markets in developing countries, rather than promoting the growth of the domestic economy in these countries. And the result of such assistance will probably be long-term, as we have seen several times, an obstacle to sustainable development, such as social differences and so on. We know that the main starting point of this winning will be, and these profits will usually always go to the account, in the first place, of working rights, including environmental rights and others. For this reason, we propose that, at least in principle, this resolution deletes any particular emphasis on the role of the economy, following also its neoliberal ideology, and in this way at least outwardly shows that international development cooperation by Slovenia remains at least on paper at the principal level. So to serve this mechanism as a basic objective and principle, this is creating equality in the world, not opening up new markets for multinational corporations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u160	The explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group shall be mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we have one replacement thesis and therefore we need to explain our position on this amendment. The resolution, as it is intended, is a document that is not a contract for the creation and opening of one multinational in some less developed society, but a document that expresses Slovenia's attitude as a developed country, that, as it can help, helps in the societies that need it. In this respect, it is necessary to separate from the negotiating allergy of the Left to the word economy. This does not mean exploitation in this case, but means the attitude of Slovenia to help. We will vote against this amendment and we will support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u162	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, chairman. The economy has one and only function in the global south. This is to treat it as a pool of cheap labour and as a pool of raw materials. If we want to help and help countries in the global south, we need to put infrastructure, the education structure of these people, their citizens and their citizens there, and organise their own domestic economy as a closed national economy in order to have synergies at home. By the way, Slovenia would also need such an economic and development policy. However, if under the cover of development aid to the countries of the global south the economy, namely capital, we know what is going to happen — even more dependence, more subordination — more desiccation of excessive value from the global periphery towards the global north. And such a strategy joins the Republic of Slovenia in such a direction; if at least at the principle level, if not otherwise, we do not change it by adopting the amendment prepared by the Socialists; and therefore I will vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u164	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Then we decide on this amendment. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 70. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 70.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted at the home labour body or at the meeting of the National Assembly have made the motion for a resolution inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 4. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first, fourth, fifth and sixth indents of Article 63(1) of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first, fourth, fifth and sixth indents of Article 63(1) of the Wildlife and Hunting Act shall not be adopted. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 76 votes against 2. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for the adoption of the authentic interpretation has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Banka Slovenije Act by a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 25. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) on Transparency of Securities Financing and Re-use under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Inspection of Work by Short Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 9. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 2. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Left Party shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. The United Left has already tried to amend the Labour Inspection Act three times in this mandate. Our wish, our request is quite simple. If the market inspector comes into the company and finds out that people work there in black, the employer will be ordered to hire these people. On the contrary, if an inspector comes to work in a company where forced espions or criminal workers work through an illegal employment agency, such as the famous port service providers in Luka Koper, he does not have these powers. We have therefore simply proposed that these rights be equalised. After three years of persecution, the Ministry has come across so much that, in the case of forced espionage, the labour inspector will now have this authority, but it still does not solve the same problem for criminal workers or especially for these workers who work through illegal labour agencies. That's why we tabled these two amendments to make this whole. We will support the amendment. We also appeal to the other parliamentary groups to do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u166	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 48. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 3. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 49. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the labour market regulation law following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 15. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional and Scientific Titles following a short procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Kindergartens after a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 5. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Investigations in the Farrokh case. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are recorded in the Interim Report on pages 29 to 47; in the Additional Interim Report on pages 23 to 67 and in II. Additional interim report on pages 13 to 20. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that you do not provide information from the Additional Interim Report and II in any possible explanation of vote. Additional interim report containing classified information or other information protected under the law. The explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is given by Dr Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u167	Thank you, President. We are now in the final stage of what we have been preparing in the last four months on the Commission of Inquiry and where the members of the Commission of Inquiry — those who are active — have agreed unanimously in the main findings and in the proposed conclusions. In short, we propose in the proposed conclusions that responsibility be investigated within stakeholders, which means that the authorities responsible for overseeing such operations have nevertheless taken place. We then propose to the Government that the Slovenian State Holding Authority request a report from the New Ljubljana Bank on this particular business and that these three reports, as a statement of suspicion of the crime of internal and external banking crime, be submitted or announced to the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the police. Allow me two words about this report, why this is so important. After a long investigation we have an opportunity today, the National Assembly is the only body that has actually carried out this task when it came to irregularities has completed the report and will also indicate the suspicion of a crime. They want to convince you that these things are out of date. They are particularly active in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. I assure you that all the crimes we find in this case, or suspicions of them, namely money laundering under Article 245 of the Penal Code, the offence of the bride's work in the service under Article 285 of the Penal Code, the abuse of the situation, the abuse of confidence in economic activity and the abuse of official status or official rights, have not yet been obsolete and will not, under the Penal Code at least until the beginning of 2019. Until then, I hope the law enforcement authorities will do their job. However, due to something else, as you know, the internal policy of the New Ljubljana Bank allows it to delete from the end of 2018 the document behind the document relating to this particular case. And if the law enforcement authorities don't move, these documents will be erased forever. I propose that the report be supported and that, with as much consensus as possible, we show that this institution is the first one to carry out its duty and that it has done it with such a majority that other institutions will have to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u168	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u169	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! In 2009 and 2010, the Iranian intelligence service financed its intelligence network worldwide with the help of the New Ljubljana Bank. With the help of Slovenian assistants, the new Ljubljanska Bank has enabled more than €700 million to go through this bank. It's a huge number. And Iran's intelligence network used this money to pay off its agents all over the world, and with that money, it was paying for the production of a nuclear bomb. Let us add that Iran is not famous as a country that respects human rights. Certainly an extremely unpleasant thing for Slovenia. And what is exciting about this is that the supervisory institutions in Nova Ljubljanska Bank, the Anti-Money Laundering Office, the police, and so on have canceled one after the other. The thing seems amazing that it's just coincidences. If anything, it is good for all things, at least that this house, this national assembly, Parliament, the parliamentary commission, has done its job well. Two working bodies of the National Assembly gathered in one place a great deal of documentation and testimony. From here on out, everything depends on the law enforcement authorities. Parliament, Members, we have done our work. It is now also about whether these authorities will restore confidence in these institutions. If no one is responsible for this big deal, then it is clear to everyone that citizens will find it difficult to trust these institutions of the country, because they can always feel that big fish in this country are never responsible; while small fish are punished at all possible ends and places. The New Slovenia Group will support these recommendations. I believe that this will be done by a large majority in this House, but it is not inconceivable that we encourage all other institutions to take their work seriously from here on out and finish things.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u170	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by the Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Special Report in the case of proliferation, money laundering and financing of terrorism – the Farrokhzadeh case and NLB case (ZAUPNO); the Commission's findings on the supervision of intelligence and security services and the proposal for a decision for the National Assembly As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly supports the Special Report on the issue of proliferation, money laundering and financing of terrorism – the Farrokhzadeh and NLB case, prepared by the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Today, we are deciding on the support for the report, which has been extremely busy and which has been adopted unanimously by the Commission, for which I particularly thank my colleagues and colleagues, the members of the Commission for the supervision of Security Intelligence Services. I firmly believe that the same decision will also be an important signal, an important signal to everyone in the country, that something like this should never happen again and that it should never happen in a normal country. If there was a question of banks themselves, as the Commission of Inquiry has discussed, what power is there for someone who has agreed on a billion remittances through a public-owned bank through NLB, then the question is what power does it have only those who actually achieve that they will cancel virtually all state control institutions and law enforcement authorities? The adoption of this report must be a clear signal that it is now a corrective examination. None of these matters in terms of legal order, given what we have been informed, have yet to be obsolete. Surely we would all be more calm if we received assurances from the President of the Government today that he would withdraw those people who were then directly involved in the event; but unfortunately there was no need to know that there were extremely harsh conditions abroad. This is a great deal, since Mr Hari Furlan, who was then the director of the NPU, is today the leader of the Special Prosecutor's Group; then Mr Funk, who was once the deputy of Mr Jevšek, where the matter at the NPU also stopped; some are sitting in the government itself, first of all is the Justice Minister, who was at the KPK at the time and who himself, with his press conference, drew attention to his role and the role of Mr Staret, today's Secretary of State, then he is mag. Mr Erman, who was then Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance; and could also mention. All of this raises an additional question and additional responsibility before those who will carry out the investigation, because everything that we have done so far and what this National Assembly has done will only justify its moisture if this becomes a story of responsibility, that we will have a good and correct investigation, which we can also follow properly, not only in the form of a report, but in that the case will be given an appropriate judicial epilogue in order to actually be determined by the competent institutions, who, when and where it has broken the law; and that is why it will also answer to the court. This is the responsibility of those who perform these functions today, the responsibility of law enforcement authorities, the responsibility of the state and all officials to restore confidence in the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u172	The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u173	At least in the area of services controlled by the police, the Owls, the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, has found some of the least unusual things. You imagine that in November 2010, the High Representative of the Police will find that this is not about money laundering. In 2013, the same policeman was suspended by the police and the same police officer fell down the ladder for three months and killed himself. One day before the hearing. This is certainly an element and a thing that should be of interest to the police in all this and should be deepened in this detail. Next thing, an example of Owl. At first glance, she seemed to react most effectively and conscientiously in the Iranian story, but when we get to the details, we are surprised to learn that she did not send detailed details to two partner services that would be of any interest to Iranian businesses. And then we reach the Anti-Money Laundering Office, which has practically informed partner offices across Europe with a list of all remittances. Do you know who he isn't? The country of Germany where most of these remittances went. And I think that these are certainly important elements that the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission has identified in its work and would continue to explore them from here because the Parliamentary Commission has certain limitations on the powers other law enforcement authorities have. And all three elements in this report, which I have now highlighted, should be examined in detail. In New Slovenia, we always want this to happen; however, in all previous positions and facts, it is clear that the New Slovenia Group will also fully support these recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u174	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 76 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 16. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Community Financing is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Interior, the Public Administration and local self-government as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 28th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Elimination of Unlawful Conduct in the Municipality of Kostanjevica na Krka. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision on the Elimination of Unlawful Conduct in the Municipality of Kostanjevica nas Krki. 1. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the municipal council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka in the year for which the budget of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk was not adopted, even for the following year, in accordance with the law of the submitted and prepared budget which could enter into force at the beginning of the year. 2. National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 90c of the Law on Local Self-Government (Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 94/07 — officially purified text, 76/2008, 79/2009, 51/2010, 40/2012 — ZUJF, 14/2015 and 76/2016, decision of the Constitutional Court) reminds the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk of its illegal conduct and urges it to abolish the illegality referred to in the previous point by adopting the 2017 and 2018 budget within 30 days of receipt of this Decision. 3. If the municipal council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka follows the call from the previous point, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall take the procedure for the early dissolution of the municipal council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk with a decision to terminate. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patient Rights in the framework of the regular procedure. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as the proposer of the draft law, decided that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would be carried out at this meeting. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments tabled that you have received and published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The coalition amendment, as well as ours, essentially proves that what we are discussing, i.e. in the first reading and second reading, has been fully alerted by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group; therefore, the existing law proposed by the Ministry does not allow for public publication on the websites or public publication of the National Institute for Public Health, i.e. waiting periods and the number of waiting on the stage of urgency. We have always warned about this, and in the second reading we have also tabled an amendment to Article 7 to make this public and to Article 27. The minister kept saying that it was possible with the law, but today we have two amendments on the table, namely the coalition and ours, which are essentially the same. However, I stress something, once again, in our second reading, we have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group setting out the collection and publication at the NIJ on waiting periods, the number of waiting periods, and also provides a legal basis for the publication of statistics and also for the financing of this. Not only what is now being summarised in these amendments, but also our amendments have allowed a transitional period, since with 1. 4. 2017 61 services came to eProcurement and eTables; and not all thousands of 300. In order for these statistics to be collected normally or to begin to function normally, we have made it possible for the Ministry or NEJS to have this transitional period up to 1. 1. 2019. Once again, our amendment, the one that is now being tabled in the third reading, is essentially an emergency solution to what has already been proposed, which has been rejected by the coalition, which today is essentially the same amendment, summarizes our second reading. At the time of the examination of the Patient Rights Act, the Minister constantly deceived the professional public and Members of the National Assembly because she claimed that the law allowed for public publication, waiting periods, the number of people waiting at the level of urgency. This points to the total ignorance of the Ministry and the Minister for All Comments, including by the coalition or by the opposition, which we have constantly warned about; and therefore today this amendment. With this amendment, it was necessary to regulate matters by laying down the rules governing what methodology would be like and how statistics would be collected or published. This Regulation is intended to be established by the Minister or by the Minister. I would suggest to the coalition that next time take into account the opposition comments that are obviously on the ground, because this amendment, which was in the second reading, allowed, once again, the legal basis for regulating the law, how it is published in what way; and also the transitional period that is not now possible. This is only a correction of the mistakes of the coalition from previous hearings or from previous votes. However, I propose to the Ministers that the hearings be prepared in their own time for these comments, because it is obvious that these comments were also made by the coalition. Today, it shows that the Ministry does not take account of these key comments. It is important, however, that waiting periods and the number of waiting days are made public with a view to statistical processing, that patients, citizens see the waiting times, that this is published transparently; not that it is hidden. And then it's also transparent to see where the EDPs are going, not to blur things out. This amendment of ours is an emergency, because it was not accepted in the second reading, and the amendment of the coalition is a summary of our amendments and is a copy paste. I will say as you used to say in the coalition about our proposals, which were good, now I will also say about your amendment – we support it, but we will not support it, because it is simply a copy-paste and is a summary of our amendments. In the future, however, listen to the opposition's good proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u176	Mr Branko Zorman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u177	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I must deny what my colleague said before me that the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups has been copied from their amendment. If you look at the dates, you'll see that's not the case. The amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups was tabled on 21 and yours on 26 September. It is immediately clear that copy-paste logic does not work. Now for the content. Until now, the manner and scope of the publication of the waiting period data has been set out in the Regulation on maximum allowable waiting periods for individual health services and on how to manage waiting lists. However, this amendment provides an additional legal basis for determining this publication, i.e. the scope and manner of these statistics on waiting periods and the number of waiting ones, which will be regulated in the rules and not in law, since these statistics do not fall within the law, but fall within the sub-law, in this case in the Regulation drawn up by the Ministry of Health. This amendment explicitly sets out the requirement that this information on waiting species be published in public, for individual health services and for individual stages of urgency. Since the amendments are similar, however, we believe that the coalition amendment is more appropriate because these content which it refers to travels to a sub-legislative act and does not regulate them in the law itself. That is why we will support our amendment, and thus the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party becomes irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u178	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. [[advertising from the hall]] But the replica is possible without a report. Reploco has Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u179	Because it was a debate. I will tell Mr. Zorman that, in the first and second readings, you have made it sacred to us that in the law proposed by the Minister, public publication of waiting days and the number of waiting days is possible. Today, you are saying that your amendment is correcting this or that you are making it possible to do so. And I said that your amendment to copy-paste is our amendment from another reading, and I can read it to you again if you want. In the second reading, our amendment, which legally stipulated how and where to publish waiting periods and the number of waiting ones, refused that in fact you could now be the one — czech, we have made it possible to publish public. Don't fool around. You have been deceiving the laws coming from the Ministry of Health all along, and today you are correcting the mistakes you saw at the time of the debate. We could have confirmed our amendment at that time, accepted it, because once again, this amendment of yours today is the copy-paste of our amendment from the second reading, which you unanimously rejected. Agreed. And immediately announced the amendment in third reading. At that time, we have said, once again, that Article 7 amends to allow for the public publication of waiting periods, the number of waiting at the level of urgency at the NIJZ; and at the same time allowing the amendment to Article 27 to allow for a transitional period because today e-Procurement is only 61 services. In Slovenia we have about a thousand 300 services and this will take time to bring things together so that the statistics will be complete and concrete, real; so we have enabled up to 1. 1. 2019. It's been married ever since. So far, it's been in marriage, it's been okay, and it's been going on since 2011. This was adopted in 2008 and 2011 this matter started to take place as a transitional period was also needed. One more time. Today you're correcting that shababiser thing from another reading because you didn't want our amendment to be accepted, which was real. You're fixing this today, and then you're going to say that you've made it public. Don't fool yourself with things like this. This today, as well as the submission of 5,000 signatures for the Health Act, shows that the Minister simply does not cooperate with the professional public and does not listen to the professional public, nor to the opposition, at the end of the day, nor to the coalition. Today again, this amendment of yours is the copy-paste of our amendment and we have explained it nicely the last time to allow a transitional period to allow statistics, statistics, methodology to be regulated; but you do not want this. As I said, as long as you're doing a copy paste of our laws and amendments, we just can't support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u180	We're in the middle of a debate. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We first decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 6. If this amendment is adopted, it will become the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors to the same Article without purpose. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 6 was adopted, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to this Article became irrelevant. We're done deciding on the amendments. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 19. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on collective action within the framework of the regular procedure. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment table that you have received and is published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate the second article and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u181	Thank you. What's this all about? We are adopting a collective action law that allows new nationals and nationals or residents of this country to come together in the event that they have been mass harmed by certain entities, simply step up and file an action for these infringements. The draft law at the start did not provide that such liability for such damage would also be borne by the State or local communities and holders of public powers, which, in the second reading, we have successfully remedied on the Committee with our adopted amendment and then included in the text of the law the responsibility of the State. In the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly, this provision has been re-deleted and we now propose this amendment, which is simple and also very sound in mind, for the third reading. There are cases where a country or other public function holders are simply one act, usually a law or an act, causing mass harm to a certain part of the population. From this point of view, the responsibility of the State for individual actions is already present; if we are now being harmed by the State, we can already file such an action as individuals. Therefore, we propose an amendment to allow for such a type of infringement of collective action. We do not see any reason for companies to be responsible for their actions, for the damage they cause; on the other hand, the country does not. I don't think we can make any difference here, if there's something like a deletion, cases of subordinate bonds or anything like that, it's just a mechanism that makes it easier for people to get what they've been hurt for. Such a right is defined in the Constitution, the country is somehow responsible for its actions and from this point of view we have again proposed this amendment, I think it does not require too much. It's just a supplement in this law that's going in a positive direction. The Minister also said on the Committee that there were no specific arguments why we should not have such a provision, but that it was a matter of political decision. That is why I appeal to your political understanding, that we also establish a country as an example. Perhaps you listen many times or hear that no one in this country ever answers. Let us take one step forward, set the possibility of answering the state in this case, and offer citizens and citizens the opportunity to file collective action in these cases as well. If we're doing this for businesses and individuals, let's say for Kemis, why don't we have this option against the country if sometimes it does us any harm.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-26-SDZ7-Redna-33.ana.u182	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 26. 9. 2017 is published on the e-club. Before we move to a decision, Members and Members, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on a proposal, the National Assembly shall decide without discussion and without explanation of vote. This was adopted by a final amendment to the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Karl Erjavac to the question of mags. Mr Andrej Shirtzl in connection with the implementation of the arbitration agreement. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 48. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of the delegation of Violet Tomić regarding the promotion of societies fighting abortion at social work centres. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 7 votes in favour, 50 votes in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Interior of Mag. Vesne Györkös Žnidar on the question of the question of the message. Branka Grims in connection with the flow of migrants along the Balkan route and the security and border measures. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 14 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mag. Matey Vraničar Erman on the question of Mr Zvonk Laha on the proportionality of sanctions in tax clearance of accounts. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 13 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pozvalska to France Breznik's question on the issue of providing quality staff for the needs of the Slovenian economy. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 13 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a resource responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Alenka Smrkolj, to the question of Mr Tomaž Lisca on the financial perspective of the European Union 2014-2020. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 14 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Mr Trček, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Restorska to the question of Mr Franc Trčko on non-financing of science. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Logar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Magi. Mateje Vraničar Erman on the question of Mr Anžet Logar on the draft law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present and 14 votes against 49. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen to the question by Mr Horvat on the construction of the Cirkovce–Pince. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 13 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to the question of mag. Mark Pogačnik regarding amendments to the Medical Act. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 14 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Mateje Vraničar Erman as well as Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anje Kopač Dark on the question of Luka Mesca on the negative consequences of the privatisation of Adria Airways Tehnika. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Can I have some peace, please? You have adopted a very effective Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at this point. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matthew Vraničar Erman on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 14 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak concerning the non-participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the project of the establishment of the Council for the Investigation of the Crimes of the Communist Regimes. We're voting. There are 66 members and Members present and 12 votes against 51. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 51.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to the question of Mr Andrej Čuš on the ineffective rehabilitation of the Mežica Valley. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 10 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen to Andrej Čuš's question on the latest environmental disasters and disasters in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Kordiš's delegation concerning the advertising of agency work by the Slovenian Employment Institute. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 12 votes in favour and 47 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Bojana Dobovška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to the question of the health issue by Dr Bojana Dobovška. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 48. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to the question of mags. Branka Grims in connection with the “Farrokh” case. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 47. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Miroslav Cerar, to Miha Kordiš's question on the costs for families of purchasing textbooks, work volumes and other school supplies for compulsory and secondary education. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 48. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank you for some of the joint decisions you have taken today, which I also wish to continue until the end of the mandate. I conclude the 33rd meeting of the National Assembly.
