ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marinka Levičar, mag. Bojana Muršič, Mrs Andreja Potočnik by 3 p.m., Mrs Vlasta Wait until 3 p.m., Mrs Erika Dekleva from 13 p.m. on, mag. Tanja Zink by 3 p.m., Dr. Jasna Murgel, Mrs. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Mrs. Jelka Godec from 2 p.m. on, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek from 2 p.m., Mr. Franz Breznik, Mr. Marijan Pojbič, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 3 p.m. on, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr. Jean Mahnic, Dr. Ange Logar, Mr. Tomaž Gantar, mag. Aleksander Kavčič, Mr Branko Zorman, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Mr Franc Jurša, Mr Tomaž Lisec from 16:00 on, Mr Daniel Krivec, Mr Ivan Hršak until 13:00, Mr Bojan Podkoršek, Mr Matjaž Germany until 15:00 and Mr Jan Škoberne. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill of amendments and additions to the law of indemnity following the current procedure. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, the first hearing submitted for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat, and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, following an urgent procedure submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided in its debate on those draft laws to deal with them in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure, in accordance with Article 227 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor to the applicants of both proposals for supplementary explanations. First I give my word to the representative of the government, this is the Minister of Finance mags. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today you have a new tax package made up of four laws. A key among these four laws is certainly the Income Act. The fundamental purpose of all four laws together is to address some of the important obstacles that we are reminded of both the social partners and the comparisons with the international environment, as well as our own findings resulting from the implementation of individual legislation. As has already been said, the changes in the Income Act constitute the cornerstone of this year's package of amendments to tax legislation. The proposed changes in this area are aimed at improving the competitiveness of Slovenia, preserving and creating new jobs in Slovenia and creating added value in Slovenia with the knowledge that individuals acquire abroad or bring from abroad, and thus in particular the creation of better jobs. Furthermore, the changes are aimed at certain elements of the standardised expenditure system in order to reduce the attractiveness of the system for the use of this instrument for inadequate purposes. And the third purpose, the elimination of the problem detected in the implementation of the law, which I have already mentioned. This is a step towards decommissioning labour costs, taking into account the provision of stable and predictable public revenue and the fundamental principles of taxation. The main proposed changes can be summarized into the following points. A specific scheme for taxation of workers' income from the cross-border labour market is introduced in the form of a reduction in the tax base, namely a reduction of 20% of the gross income from employment, salary or remuneration of the individual beneficiary with a limitation of the maximum amount of EUR thousand per month. The benefits shall be recognised, under certain conditions, as ensuring that the objectives and objectives of the scheme are achieved, to those committed to work, to those committed to each other by the related companies and to the researcher’s undertaking. Convenience is recognised both for travel to Slovenia and for travel from Slovenia. A new tax treatment of the reimbursement of costs relating to postings abroad is provided for as a result of the changes introduced by the Cross-border Service Implementation Act as from 1 January of next year. A more favourable treatment has been proposed from now on in order to avoid negative consequences for workers or the economy as a result of changes in the substantive definition of posting abroad. Further changes are made to certain systems of the element of standardised expenditure in order to reduce the attractiveness of the system for use as an unjustified instrument for reducing tax liabilities. In order to take account of the revenue related to the conditions for entry into the system under the conditions for compulsory exit from the system and to limit the amount of standardised expenditure at an absolute level. The non-relationship of additional general relief according to the level of income is eliminated, which mainly refers to the tax obligation of those with the lowest income. In addition, we are proposing some changes that the international environment is drawing attention to. We place non-resident performers and athletes in the same position as residents or non-residents operating through a business unit when applying standard costs. Special relief is being increased for residents who are educated and have student or student status. Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the bill represents a step in the right direction, which does not, of course, mean the end of finding possible solutions to increase the competitiveness of the economy, even in the tax burden segment. We therefore propose that you support the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	I also give the floor to the representative of the drafter of the draft law, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the field of labour tax burden, the Republic of Slovenia is among countries with an average high percentage of duties. While the average OECD is 36%, the burden of duty on work in Slovenia is 42.7%, representing 6.7% more. We propose a change to the general income relief because we want to relieve the high tax burden on the taxpayers and consequently improve the environment for the development of economic activities. The government boasts of the high economic growth that our entrepreneurs and their employees are responsible for. On the other hand, the fruits of this growth are not ready – the government – to share with those who are even deserving of economic growth and a larger budget. The amount of general relief is currently set in Article 111 of the Income Act as a reduction of the annual tax base of EUR 2 000 800 per year. In addition to this amount of general relief, a reduction of the annual tax base of up to EUR 10,000 200 per year is recognised as income of up to EUR 10 000 per year. For people with income of more than € 10,000 200 and €11 000, 800, an additional reduction of the annual tax base of €000 per year is recognised. Article 118 of the Income Law empowers the Minister to take into account the economic policy objectives of the Government to harmonise the amounts of general relief. The Regulation on the establishment of discounts and scales for the 2017 income tax provides for a general relief of EUR 3 000 302.70. In order to provide additional general relief for those with a total income of up to EUR 10 000 866, the Regulation provides for an additional EUR 3 000 2017 of relief. The additional general relief for those in debt with total income between EUR 10 000 866 and EUR 12 thousand 570 is EUR 115.94. New Slovenia is a party with a limited tax burden in its programme as one of the main principles. That is why we do not tire out in our parliamentary work, and over and over again we propose laws that would lower taxes in Slovenia and thus increase Slovenia's net wages. The proposal for the New Slovenia Act, which is currently ahead of us, foresees an increase in the legal provision from €2 000 per year to €7 000 per year. To make the effects of our bill easier to show, ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the case of a particular person. Let's call her May. Nationality Maja has a gross salary of EUR 1,000, of which it pays €353 and €190. So he gets a net salary of EUR 1 000.57. According to the proposal of New Slovenia, May would pay as much as €353 from its gross salary and €106 in income. Its net salary would increase from a thousand 57 euros to a thousand 141 euros. So May would have a higher salary of 84 euros. At the annual level, this is a good thousand euros, of course. We are talking about Maja, who has an average Slovenian salary. A thousand euros, of course, means just one nice family vacation. With economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, our employees deserve it. It's time for prosperity for everyone. As a problem, the government points out that such a change would result in a significant reduction in budgetary revenues of €490 million, and, on the other hand, there is no problem for the Government to continuously increase budgetary expenditure. From 2016 to 2019, the government has already increased its budget expenditure by almost €700 million. In New Slovenia we are convinced that the time has come when its taxpayers finally deserve something. That is why we have proposed the adoption of this law, which is lower than taxes and higher wages. In New Slovenia we hope that this will finally happen in our society. That's what we'll always stand for. It's time, as it were, for the well-being of everyone. How simple solutions, how easy it is to understand the socio-market model of the economy advocated by Nova Slovenije. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mrs Vojka Shergan, for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 82nd emergency meeting. 11. On the basis of the third paragraph, in conjunction with the first and second paragraphs of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, under the same item of the agenda, two draft laws were considered by the national working body, namely the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act (ZDoh-2S), the first reading, the EPA 2163-VII, which was proposed by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat, and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory (ZDoh-2T), the urgent procedure, EPA 2239-VII, which was sent to the Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee first decided whether the draft laws would be dealt with under the same agenda item at a meeting of the Committee under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Adoption of Law. The Committee thus adopted a decision to consider at the same meeting, under the same agenda item, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly on the urgent procedure for the adoption of law, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, the first hearing, EPA 2153-VII, submitted to the Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat, and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, the urgent procedure, EPA 2239-VII, submitted by the Government to the Assembly. In accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee decided on the basis of which one of the proposed laws would prepare an additional bill. And adopted the decision: “The amended bill is prepared on the basis of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act (ZDoh-2T), an urgent procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also decided whether to include one of the ZDoh-2S articles in the ZDoh-2T, on the basis of which a proposal for a law would be prepared. After the discussion on the possible inclusion of individual articles of ZDoh-2S in ZDoh-2T, the Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following conclusion: "In the draft law on the basis of which a proposal for a law will be prepared, none of the articles in the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law on Income submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvatt shall be included." In the light of the previous decisions adopted, the Committee continued its second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, as presented in the text. In accordance with Article 127, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly on the examination of the draft law on the working body and the provisions of Article 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly which apply to the examination and adoption of the law by emergency procedure. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of the SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 2, 3 and 5 of the draft law and did not adopt the amendment of Ambassador Joseph Horvat to Article 5 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Therefore, the Committee adopted a decision: The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the agenda of the 35th regular meeting be expanded by the following item: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Law (ZDoh-2T), urgent procedure, EPA 2239-VII, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government." On the basis of the decisions taken, the Committee also concluded the legislative procedure for ZDoh-2S and adopted, pursuant to Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision by which the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act (ZDoh-2S), EPA 2163-VII, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat, was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Tax reform always raises a lot of dust among the general public. Almost every time it causes some additional gray hair and dissension of citizens, as most experience it for nothing but additional taxes that will hit their pockets hard. However, this cannot always be the same as a negative scenario. This is also evidenced by the proposal for a package of legislation, as prepared by the Government, which is going in the opposite direction this time because it brings a greater tax burden on the taxpayers. In the Desus Group, we constantly point out that it is precisely tax revenues that are the ones that are the most charged with the state budget and are still an important financial source for the creation of the country's social policy. However, this time, the State Treasury will be deprived of the maximum share of almost €14 million in income distribution among allies, who will be given a new fairer system of implementing additional general relief, which will depend on income and calculation per year according to the formula. Tax benefits can also be offered to students in the form of an increased student benefit equal to 100 percent of the total relief. In the Group we estimate that it is right for young people to be able to return to work, to feel self-reliance and personal satisfaction. Tax burdens on student work are not a desirable journey when young people enter the labour market, as they can quickly give themselves the impression that it is not worth doing. Let me remind you that two years ago, students were given an obligation to pay 15.5% of their contribution to the pension fund, which is now deleted and is an essential contribution to reducing the state transfer. This fact is also forgotten by some so-called pensioners, who constantly warn us that the country is making less and less money for pensions. It is not necessary to repeat once again that a lower tax transfer in the PPIZ cash register does not automatically mean lower pensions, but only that the latter has been filled from another source, such as a higher paid amount of social contributions. The bill also contains solutions that will help prevent abuses of the current system of standardised expenditure. In the Desus Group, we think it is also an important achievement in the different tax treatment of the part of wages on the basis of business performance. Thus, the latter will be exempted from a tax base of 100 percent of the last known average monthly wage of employees. So far, the limit has been set at 70 percent. The proposed novel offers a series of very good solutions to which we cannot oppose in the Group of Members, since, as I mentioned in the introduction, it is a matter of decommissioning, repeating, the burden of taxpayers not creating new obligations. However, as regards a similar bill by the New Slovenia Group, we are obliged to clarify that the applicants have set somewhat unrealistic targets, as the proposed solutions would result in a shortfall of around EUR 500 million, which, despite the economic recovery, is definitely too much for the state budget. We therefore rejected the proposal in the Desus Group as inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act follows the simplification of the tax system and the decommissioning of the taxpayers and these solutions can be seen in at least six points in this law that we are considering today. This brings the first change to workers assigned to work abroad, simplifying or resolving complex tax treatment, because somehow there was a constant dilemma as to whether it was a posting or a business trip. And this is regulated by law in a way that replaces these expressions by a uniform treatment of all those who are assigned to work abroad for up to 30 days. In particular, the problems of drivers in international transport, whose work is of course specific, are being addressed. For them, a short - term assignment will be considered a business trip or a 90 - day drive. The second amendment makes it possible to determine the standard costs for small enterprises and entrepreneurs where the thresholds for the mandatory transition to the profit-recovery system will be defined by the maximum amount of the standardised costs and not more by the ceiling of the income. Finally, such a solution will also make it easier to identify those who use the chain of several small enterprises for tax evasion. However, the standardised system remains fully operational, allowing many small businesses and entrepreneurs to operate more easily. A third important point, simplifying or decommissioning, or if you want an additional remuneration in this case, refers to the so-called 13th salary or annual remuneration for employees. Last year, we made a great effort to define the thirteenth salary as income that does not exceed 70 per cent of the average monthly salary. These amendments also add up to 100 per cent of Slovenia’s average monthly salary, together with the initiative of trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce. We are confident that this will be a successful step that will encourage employers to include workers to a significantly greater extent in the sharing of generated results and profits, to which most of the employees have certainly contributed in their work. The next solution is in the area of taking into account the benefits that reduce the level of human tax liabilities. Exclusion of free legal aid received from the income base is one of those solutions that greatly assists those who cannot afford expensive lawyers and, if they already have free legal assistance, will not be included in the income base. And for low-income recipients, changes in the special relief allowing them to reduce the tax base are also important. In fact, a step-by-step relief has in practice caused someone with low incomes to earn a little more with the opportunity to work, but then, of course, by exceeding a certain limit, he fell to a higher tax rate and actually lost what he deserved. Thus, the new formula for the calculation of special relief is supposed to be fairer, as it is evenly and federally reduced, thus taking into account the kind of federal transition to higher classes rather than a single one, which usually takes away all the additional revenue. Let him mention important changes for the students. The proposed amendments also increase the relief for students who will be re-equivalent to the general tax relief. For all these reasons, we will be supported by the Act amending and supplementing the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	The text is by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Slovenian economic growth has been good in recent times. For 2016, it was 3.1 per cent and 4.4 per cent for 2017 and 3.9 per cent for 2018. Even within the euro area, this is good economic growth. Of course, we must not hide our eyes that this is due to the good work of the government, because the government has about as much in common with this economic growth as the government has with tomorrow's announced snow. I believe that this economic growth is driven mainly by exports and better conditions that have been established mainly in our key trading partners, where the Slovenian industry exports. Germany, which Slovenia is particularly attached to through the automotive industry, must be highlighted here, and this is what has driven our economic growth in recent years. Of course, if we want to catch the developed nations in the future, then it is clear that we need much more growth than they do if we want to get to about the same level of development that they have. It is therefore crucial that we keep economic growth going. All experts point out that future economic growth in addition to exports depends to a large extent also on domestic consumption. Domestic consumption, however, is nothing more than for people to remain in their pockets, in their wallets, so that they can spend this amount of money properly. There are no other simple solutions here, so people need to remain in wallets if we want domestic consumption to increase. And in this light, Nova Slovenija came with an extremely simple solution, which would also have a very fast effect. We have proposed that the income would increase the overall relief to €7,000. What this would mean in practice, because we all like to talk about specific cases. In view of today's overall relief, let's take a look at the example of a citizen with an average salary. This means that he gets a net of EUR 49 or more than EUR 1,000 in his wallet. The gross salary of such an individual is EUR 1 000 584, of which EUR 350 is charged to various state-owned salaries, and EUR 185 is paid for income; this is the current situation. And if the majority in this House had adopted the New Slovenia proposal, the gross salary would not have changed, which means that the burden of the economy would remain the same. Contributions to health, pension and other state treasury would remain unchanged, equal to €350. However, it would reduce the citizen's contribution to income from EUR 185 to EUR 104, which ultimately means that the proposal of New Slovenia would result in an average salary of EUR 81 per month more in his wallet. Throughout the year, this means poor thousands of euros, which is already an amount that can make an important contribution to greater domestic consumption. As long as we're talking about five, ten euros, then we can talk about whether pensioners, employees or anyone else can afford two cupcakes of ice cream more than anything else, and of course this can't contribute effectively to greater domestic consumption, but a thousand euros can. The New Slovenia proposal goes in the direction of all citizens, not just some, but all, to feel this economic growth. In addition, this proposal from New Slovenia also addresses the issue of migrant workers working across our northern border, since the proposal of New Slovenia would no longer require these workers to pay in the Slovenian budget. But, as we say, our government doesn't want to take that into account. And in a way it does not seem fair to us that on the other hand the Government is spending more, while it does not allow all Slovenian citizens to feel economic growth in their pockets. As this law also provides for lower taxation of the Christmas tree, Nova Slovenija will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. There are two positive measures in the government proposal that will benefit students and workers with the lowest wages, so we will not vote against the Socialists. On the other hand, there are many harmful solutions in the law, so we will not support the law. Our first point is that the budget will lose €16 million every year as a result of the implementation of this law. Given that our public finances are still undernourished, this failure should be replaced. Income is, for example, the main source of funding for municipalities. The less we collect income, the less money there is to subsidise kindergartens and to invest in healthcare homes as well as for non-profit apartments. The loss of €16 million could be compensated by eliminating the changes in the income scale adopted by Cerara's coalition in favour of 10 per cent of the people with the highest income. With the changes in the income scale, Cerara's government has depleted the budget by €80 million, at a time when, say, unemployment benefits are still frozen. Such a policy is socially unfair and economically pointless. Our second point concerns the taxation of public servants who carry out complementary activities. These include so-called doctors of amphibians who work through the afternoon espionage. The Ministry of Finance first promised a fairer taxation of the afternoon espies, but in the end it proposed only a few cosmetic adjustments. The Coalition, on the one hand, by amending the Health Act, has limited the complementary work of doctors in the public sector and, on the other hand, maintains a tax regime that directly promotes such earnings. Let me explain what the problem is. The physician in the public system opens the afternoon esp. With it, it can earn up to 50,000 euros a year, and it pays significantly less taxes than other employees. He pays social contributions in the flat. So if he earns up to €4,000 per month, he pays the same contributions, not the same share, but the same contributions as if he earned 10 times less with this supplementary activity per month, i.e. EUR 400. This is contrary to fundamental justice, and in addition, we are losing funds for health care and pensions. In addition, such a doctor has a huge income relief. At 50,000 euros of annual income, it is recognised as 80% of the costs, and finally, someone with an additional 50 000 euros per year in the public sector who pays only 4% of the income in addition to the salary in the public sector. It is no wonder that in the public sector, especially among doctors, this model is so attractive and that people are increasingly losing confidence in the state and its institutions, while public sector employees are more than public sector workers are focusing on earning in the afternoon. Therefore, we demand that the earnings from the complementary activity be taxed on the progressive income scale applicable to all employees and pensioners. Those who earn a pair of 100 euros a month pay their income at 16% and those who earn 50,000 euros pay their income at 50%, as do all those who are employed. The salary scale should also be regarded as a complementary activity, and much more so as the income from capital that the first Janšev government has exempted from progressive, that is, fair taxation. In this way, we would gain not only more resources but at the same time limit the emergence of earnings in the public sector and in particular in the health system. With this proposal, the government has shown that it will continue to tolerate such phenomena and, of course, the Left will not participate in such policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! With the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, we continue to reduce the burden of work. Already in 2016, we adopted a mini-tax reform that has put more pressure on capital and eased the work. In 2016, the workload measures allowed for a change in the income scale by introducing a new tax grade between the applicable second and third classes with a rate of 43 % and a reduction in the tax rate from 41 % to 39 %. Thus, the debtors over 1.6 times the average wage were also burdened. The income threshold for beneficiaries for an additional general benefit of EUR 300 has also increased by an annual increase of EUR 10 000 866 to EUR 11 000 166. Revenue payments for part of the business performance income up to 70 % of the average monthly salary were forgiven. The effects of this measure will be most visible in the payment of 13 salaries and business performance for 2017. Now, on the Committee on Finance, we have adopted an amendment that allows special tax treatment to increase from 70 per cent to 100% of the last known average monthly wage for employees in Slovenia, up to a certain amount of paid work, this is the so-called Christmas. The income received would thus not be included in the tax base of the income from the labour relationship at the proposed level. These solutions will apply in 2018. The amendment to the additional general relief reduces the tax margin over the total period of total income for which an additional general benefit is fixed, i.e. between incomes of around 60 and 70 % of the average wage. On the basis of this measure, another step is being taken towards decommissioning the income from work, thus strengthening the competitiveness of the business environment also from the point of view of the international comparison of labour burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague, colleague! We will not support the proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will not support the proposed solutions for a number of reasons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Government and the coalition of parties of the modern centre, the Social Democrats and Desus do not work in the field of tax laws in favour of the economy or in the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but primarily in the interests of budgeting. The mandate of the government of Mir Cerar and the mandate of the government of the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats and Desus are moving to the final stage, I would say, is being concluded. For citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, this mandate will remain in memory primarily of the fact that this government has mainly set new tax burdens and higher economic burdens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed solutions proposed by this coalition and the Ministry of Finance are not appropriate. The fact is that economic growth in Slovenia is high, that all international institutions are forecasting economic growth for Slovenia in the coming period, and this is mainly thanks for the economy. Indeed, this government does not know how to reward the economy, in fact it even punishes it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that economic growth should be known mainly in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, economic growth is unknown in the pockets of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we have also decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party that in the previous week we have tabled a new law to amend and supplement the Income Act, where we propose a reduction in income by 2 percentage points and an increase in general income relief. In fact, such an example would mean to those who earn an average Slovenian salary at the end of the year that it has about EUR 400 in its pocket more than it has today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the work in Slovenia is too burdensome and that this also reduces the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We are convinced that these proposed solutions proposed by the Government of Mir Cerar are not brave enough and that, given all the forecasts and the current economic growth, they could be braver. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this government continues its policy of additional burdens and, in particular, its debt policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. First, on behalf of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! Maybe a few more explanations. As you know, Nova Slovenija advocates a socio-market model for the economy. This means that we want what we create, what workers, employers, entrepreneurs, business owners create, that we want to share in some fair way all these goods. This is a socio-market model of the economy. There are, of course, a lot of theories, but let's leave theories, let's go down to real life. It is our sole purpose that, in this high economic growth, the over-average European economic growth finally once again, workers get something. We regret that we are virtually alone in these efforts. That's amazing. A few days ago there was an interesting event in Maribor organised by the Institute of Janez Evangelist Krek and Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, and there was a talk about this socio-market model of the economy for Eastern Slovenia. The middle guest was Magne's second man, Mr. Althaus. It is a pity, I regret, that there were no more Members there, including any government representative, that perhaps when we talk so much about Magna, that other Magne's man, we might have better confidence in him than the political parties of Nova Slovenija. To explain to you what the socio-market model of the economy actually means today in the third millennium. Interestingly, even business owners say, not everything is profitable. This is honestly admitted by some or many. It's understandable what a business you own if you don't have a decent employee if there's no good interpersonal relationship, if people go with a bad will to work. Then what's helping you? In fact, we must all be kind of satisfied and involved in what is being created. Why are we making it 7 grand? Why does this raise general relief to 7,000? Because if you look at the data of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, if you look at the data of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, they will show you that the poverty risk threshold for a single household in 2016, i.e. last year, was 7 000 396 euros at the annual level. €7 000 396 is the threshold of poverty risk. Now I hope you understand at least why we have proposed a general relief of 7,000. In addition, we had in mind the fact that each debtor, a taxable person, can easily calculate his income so that he can easily calculate the net salary of the given gross salary. That's not what today is. You just can't do this, you have to have a calculator, you have to take a look at the income scale and some other announcement by the Minister of Finance and so on. You don't know how to calculate that. And if a young person who is trained to talk to the employer comes along, the employer tells him that he will pay a thousand 500 euros fine. Yeah, at the same time, you should calculate this potential employee's net worth. No way. It takes an hour to figure out what the net will be. And I live off the net. Isn't it? We live on net wages. Indeed, this is no longer the case, let us not count how many attempts we have had in New Slovenia, how many proposals, including the urgent meetings of the competent committees, to solve once and for all the problems of migrant workers working in Austria. It's not about double taxation, it's probably what we all understand, but it's just because Austria knows what it's doing. In Austria, an annual tax base of up to EUR 11 000 is an income rate of 0%. Of course, then, for residents, the income base or income is calculated here under our laws, the income paid in Austria is deductible, and this is, as it is said, very low and migrant workers are terribly ill will. Besides, you also need to know that they don't have time, they just don't have time to go to the tax office to talk, as directed, I believe they get them, but you need to take a break before, say, an annual income forecast, etc., to get all the instructions on how you need to react, because we have a very complicated system, so then you can lower your income a little bit. Just for example, a migrant worker received an informational calculation, an additional income supplement of EUR 3 000 600. After having completed and completed and sent to the tax administration, to the tax office all the necessary data, this is the number of days he took to parts of Austria, the number of meals, this is reflected, it is commendable that the Ministry of Finance went into this solution, and then, in the end, he paid not EUR 3 000 600 of income, but EUR 600 of income. But here you have to be fairly fast financially or fiscally or functionally literate. Now, please get down to the level or have one level of one construction worker in front of you. No way, he comes to the office and asks for his help when all the hands are gone. The messenger can't do anything. Only the minister can ask an oral question, the minister says, we have organised additional advisers at tax offices to have migrant workers present. But we know that here, that's what we're listening to, that's not what's coming to them. The solution is good, commendable, but we must have a simple taxpayer before us, who must also be sad that he did not find a job at home. Just stand in Shentilje at five in the morning, see what traffic is like from Slovenia to Austria, count cars and people. One more case. Average salary, due to easier calculation of gross per month in Slovenia this moment is EUR 000 600. Taking our solution into account, a worker at monthly level would get 84 euros more, on a year of good thousand more. It's a family vacation. And of course, because a worker wouldn't put it somewhere, he'd spend it. Don't think someone's gonna be putting somewhere in stock for bad times right now. Maybe some part, but mostly people spend it, which means, of course, the country gets it back into the budget. So I don't know if that 490 million, which is supposed to be accountingly, is whether it's a so-called static or dynamic calculation. But I don't care. But I'm not in favour of always looking at some solutions as just accounting. We have to trust each other. So those parliamentary groups that you said, "Yes, but that's not going to work. It's almost half a billion down." Yeah, how about we try something different? Is it worth nothing to keep these half billion from people, our citizens who know their money better, surely better than the country? However, I am surprised and happy and in New Slovenia we are pleased that, once again, on the Committee on Finance, an amendment by coalition parliamentary groups has come that practically follows our long-standing desire to make Christmas Christmas, or if you want to pay 14th wages, the tax burden will be lifted. Why? Because when we walk in the field, employers tell us: No problem, I'll give you Christmas, I'll give you some more pay, because I have an extremely good collective because my biggest capital is employed, but if I quit, so the employer, so the owner of the company, if I give up part of the profits, then the state should. But the country immediately puts on a pot and wants to have one piece of this cake for itself. It's not fair because the state had nothing to do with it. If it is an undertaking, an employee and an employer, if they have achieved good results, it shall be distributed among the workers. Also interesting, if I walk a little in history, in 2004-2008, for the first time in this country, after many years of left-centre governments, we stress left-centred governments, but then for the first time under the tactics of Dr Andrej Bajuk, we passed a law stipulating the participation of workers in profit. Unfortunately, this has never happened in this country. Once again, I am glad that the coalition has followed New Slovenia, our long-standing efforts, this is one step, which will have to be done, probably not the time to discuss the so-called development cap. Look, if we don't do this, we won't be competitive. A young, professional cadre, a trained cadre, which must have moved the development of this country, will go out. The world is open, the world today is a global village. I regret a little bit, but I'm a Democrat and I respect the coalition's decision, but this needs to be said to the Slovenian public. Our proposal for an income law has been waiting for quite some time in the drawer, somewhere in early September it was put in, we already thought it was set up somewhere, but, of course, the coalition knew that the government was preparing a novelty and, as usual, the sent-in law is treated as a hybrid on the labour body as a hybrid, as we call it, and, as usual, then the coalition also betrays the bill. But we are pleased that today's debate, which, at least, will point to some of the next steps, because you said mainly, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, this is the right step. We have to walk, not just take one step, we have to keep walking. Life is dynamic, the economy is dynamic. Once we must understand that taxes must be stimulating, that they must be fair, and I hope once, that you, colleagues and colleagues of the coalition, will understand that it is not moral, it is not moral to tax that income of a single-member household, which means survival, which is the threshold of the risk of poverty, that is, a good EUR 7 000 300. It is not moral for the state to take away from this, because then this poverty is simply even greater. I'm not talking about, I'm looking at, I'm reading statistics, 280 thousand people, our citizens and citizens, so 280 thousand of them lived below the poverty threshold last year. What kind of social state is this?Oh, my God! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	As the chairman, or one who leads the Parliament, I am still obliged to point out that the retention of this law is not a work of coalition or anything, but is a pure procedural thing, because it has simply been held for so long by other laws. These rules apply and are the same for all, this is an objective fact, otherwise I would not have intervened. The representative of the Government, as well as the bill-maker, Minister of Finance Mag, now has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Allow me, at the beginning of the examination of this amendment, to respond a little more to the statements used in the recitals to the draft law. Surely we must all strive for prosperity for all, and that is also the intention of the Government. At the same time, however, we understand when we talk about prosperity, not only about the prosperity that is known in an individual's wallet, but also about the prosperity that is guaranteed by public funds. Regardless of how we talk about how the country is being swallowed up, most of the expenditure is intended to meet those common needs that we have agreed together as a society. Let me just mention the most important or the biggest things. A billion 200, about – I will round the figures for clarity – is intended for transfers to individuals and households, an additional billion 200 for transfers to the pension register. A billion-and-a-half is intended for transfers to public institutions, especially public health institutions, pardons, excuses, public education institutions and to a certain extent social institutions, an additional 300 million. For security, which is the basis of all prosperity, there are billions of euro earmarked. For infrastructure, the basis for further economic development and the possibility of collecting or attracting additional investments, almost a billion, in the broadest sense, I am talking about investments. This is just a few numbers that we discussed in more detail 14 days ago when we discussed the budget documents. And we all stressed the importance of balancing public finances and ensuring that with public finances, we do not divide the spending side more than we create. And at public level, we create mainly with tax burdens. When we talk about the growth of budgetary expenditure and compare 2016 to 2019, it is necessary to take into account or compare the growth of integral expenditure, not common expenditure. And the 700 million expenditure growth between 2016 and 2019 is mainly due to the accelerated use of European funds, which your party, Mr Horvat, is also working towards. Speaking of the international institutions and the warnings we receive from international institutions, I would like to draw another warning from the President or the Director-General of the IMF. At this year’s annual assembly, she pointed out that the whole world economy is on the rise, in good economic condition, and at the same time warned that this period is definitely a time for reforms, for changes, but not for the overall reduction of tax burdens. She pointed to something similar in preparing for the budget debate, as well as a group of economic experts whom I invited to discuss in order to check the possibilities for a possible more general reduction of public finances, and the explicit single warning of all invited institutions and individuals was not to reduce the general level of government revenue, especially tax revenues, but rather to ensure a balanced public financial policy in order to prepare for public finances or to prepare for the next establishment in the economic cycle, so that it could also take appropriate measures to alleviate the social difficulties that a plant can bring with it in the economic cycle. All these considerations were taken into account by the Ministry when we planned this year's tax reform. This year's tax reform is the continuation of last year's. And let me remind you, individuals' incomes have reached at least €106 million last year. Taking into account the actual payments, it is likely that this burden is greater because it paid more in this year than it did last year, because wages are higher because it is more employed. So the loads are even higher. And we added an additional 16 million to this situation this year, again only from the data of those already achieving this type of income that we are decommissioning. However, taking into account the amendment adopted in the National Assembly to increase the level of income exemption for the so-called Christmas or Business Performance Awards, this burden is even greater. You'll deny that we've put this on the edge of the economy. It's not like that. It is true that we agreed last year that the nominal corporate income tax rate should be raised by 2 percentage points in order to cover, to a large extent, the reduction in the government's income from income. However, we must not forget that the incomes, the expenditure of businesses in relation to the remuneration of workers are tax-recognised expenditure. Therefore, we have also given up certain income from corporate income tax, which is why I do not think it is right to talk about the fact that the entire payment has fallen on the burden of the economy. As far as migrant workers are concerned, their tax situation depends, of course, not only on the tax regime in Slovenia, but also on the tax regime in neighbouring countries, but mainly on the general level. It is also necessary to compare the gross domestic product per capita, which is much higher in Austria than in Slovenia and the Slovenian tax scale, that we are obliged to adapt to the Slovenian economic situation and not to the economic situation of other neighbouring countries. Comparing this with migrant workers working in one of the other neighbouring countries would certainly result in different results. And one last thought. The complexity of the tax system is considerable, but it is based on the complexity of the relations that this tax system must regulate. We must also have this in front of our eyes when we assess the appropriateness or inappropriateness of the solutions that are being proposed. Simplicity is possible if we agree on the same treatment of things or, if you want, people in different situations, incomes from different sources. If we are to adapt this treatment to the actual economic circumstances of income achievement, this will undoubtedly bring about a certain complexity and we must count on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Dear President, Your Honor Minister! This last debate of yours, I think, has made it clear enough what direction this government and this coalition policy is going. In particular, it goes in the direction of additional burdens and additional debt. Several times this last speech mentioned the prosperity and comparison with the neighbouring state of Austria. See, Madam Minister, then answer me why 904 euros are paid in Slovenia, Ljubljana, Murski Sobota, Kranju for a thousand litres of heating oil, Austria in Celovac, for example, for a thousand litres of heating oil, 749 euros. You are talking about prosperity, about the gross domestic product of Austria, about substantially higher wages, because this system cannot be adapted. Let me answer that question. More than 150 euros is paid today by a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia for a thousand litres of heating oil than is paid by someone in Celovac, a respected minister. Why? Because of the high spending supported by your government and this coalition. In the course of the night, this price can be lowered, which means about 300 euros, so much more expensive for one family than for someone in Austria because of the government's inadequate excise policy. Why is the problem of migrant workers in Austria? Why do they have to pay their income in Slovenia, respected minister? Tell me why. This isn't about double taxation. It's not about double taxation. They pay only the difference paid by standards and by law in Slovenia or Austria. This means that because higher tax burdens are in Slovenia, we have to pay the income. And here's no problem. There's a general problem, Your Honor. We have warned several times in the Slovenian Democratic Party that taxes in Slovenia are too high, especially taxes related to the burden of work are too high. And the Slovenian economy is therefore not competitive. On the other hand, your government boasts of economic growth. See, ask, go to the street and ask a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who is currently regularly employed, who works, how much does this economic growth know in his pocket? How much does he know? This government of yours is operating on substantially higher annual revenues for the budget, billions of higher revenues than it has faced, say, the previous government or the previous government. And mostly what the economy has created, because I've already said in the budget debate, this government of yours sings and drinks. A five-minute lecture, Madam Minister, we have heard about prosperity and that we have decided that certain matters should be financed from the budget. That's right. And what do we finance from the health budget? Longer waiting periods. Dear Minister, health care in Slovenia is not free. Those who have an average salary, he and his employer pay more than EUR 2 000 per year for health care, for waiting types. You're talking about prosperity and what we're spending this money for. You're using this money inappropriately. Do not sell the story that education is free in Slovenia. It's not. Anyone who has a school child knows that school is paid for in Slovenia. And then you go and change the constitution so you can change things and go around these things and separate them publicly and privately. You're the money that the economy bloodyly deserves, at least for me, you're wasting inadequately. You read the media, where is the most increasing number of employees in which ministries? At the Ministry of Health and some other. This all affects this debate that we have today, because, because of these, I would say, unjustifiable spending and all that, we cannot reduce income. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed an amendment and a supplement to the income, a reduction of the grade rates by two percentage points and an increase in the overall relief. This is supposed to be known in the pocket of someone who deserves an average salary of about EUR 400 per year. If you would go further into this policy of reducing excise duties and all that. No, no, no. Some of the pressures are, say, after the minimum wage has been increased. True, the minimum wage is low and hard to survive, but it must be realized that with the minimum wage you additionally burden the employer. Why don't we go the other way around and reduce the cost of living that people face every day, for example by reducing the cost of oil derivatives. The cost of the heating season would be reduced by 300 euros and would be at the same level as in Austria. You are boasting of a number of matters that you have done in this mandate, Your Honor. You also bragged about selling Adrie Airways. We now read that several Adrie Airways planes have been overtaken by the insolvency of a Swiss company. I want to know how you're going to fly to Brussels to negotiate for NLB when Adria's on the ground, and you're bragging about this sale. Now we have information that today I don't know how many flights of Adrie Airways have been cancelled due to insolvency. Will you leave the airport in Celovac? We are filling today because of significantly more favourable prices in Austria, the Austrian budget. We're filling up Austrian health care, Austrian education because your government can't adapt to the market and because you're looking at only one tree, but you're not looking at the wider forest. You've already participated in all three governments three times in a row, Your Honor. Those governments whose consequences Slovenia and Slovenians will suffer for a long time. You have been Secretary of State to Minister Križanič – the worst minister, surely, in recent history. That is why all matters are still being paid today. You went three times in a row to raise excise policy. You've gone three times. Dear Minister, I am convinced that in the Slovenian Democratic Party and I personally cannot support this amendment. I'm sure he's not brave enough. Finally, why don't you tell the public all together when these changes will come into force, which is what we are talking about today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Get Miha Kordish ready. I've got you for once and then forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	It seems to me that there are some fundamental conceptual differences between us — New Slovenia and the Minister. If you are listening closely to the Minister, then you could sort of summarize this in the following way: Those who pay taxes in Slovenia today should be squeezed to the end and removed from them as much as possible. It's kind of the minister's policy. What we are proposing or what we are talking about is that with lower taxes more people could pay taxes and ultimately the budget would be full. But when we talk to these old people like we're talking science fiction because you're all laughing at us, nobody believes this story. It's like we're saying things that we wouldn't have seen anywhere else in the world or already existed. We only want to bring certain principles that apply in developed Western democracies to the soil of Slovenia. But where are we with the minister at the same level? At the point of speaking, we must not divide more than we create. Yes, Minister, I agree with you, but I find it extremely unusual that this does not apply to the state. What do I mean by that? From 2012 to this day, during your ministry, revenue to the state treasury is about a thousand million euros higher, and for these thousands of millions of euros the country's consumption has increased. Our point is that we could leave these thousands of euros to people to stay in their pockets. And all the economists, scientists, experts working on this area will be able to tell you that sustainable economic growth is crucial, that domestic consumption is adequate. Domestic consumption means losing our own people or having something in their pocket to spend and spend. And that's exactly where New Slovenia's proposal went, which was then hit by the coalition and seduced in a different direction. This is your decision, of course, but our proposal was very simple. If you remember back when we come up with a slightly different proposal, when we said that 3,000 300 euros of earnings or wages in one year of employment would not be contributed to not paying contributions for that money, then a person with a minimum wage would have 50 euros more net earnings each month. You said that at the time, it could jeopardize the pension, medical bills and more. Okay, we've heard you, we've changed our concept, and we've said, we leave our contributions alone, and we've gone to an income relief, which in no way interferes with the pension and not the medical bills, but we suggest that the country cut off less from our earnings. Today, we have repeatedly said that an average salary would leave an individual with €80 per month. Those of you who have been so worried that this means a minus in the state treasury, let me tell you that these 80 euros and this minus, which is supposed to be created in the state treasury, will remain in the pockets of our people, the Slovenes and the Slovenians, and will only return to this same budget a little longer. How? If more than €81 is left to the people of these 81s a month, what you say will result in a national cashier's minus, most likely those who will be able to afford it will spend these €81s to contribute to domestic consumption. By spending, they will pay VAT. Of course, the more they spend, the more market needs there will be, and a lot of entrepreneurs will be able to hire someone more because they will be more demanding. Each new employee means additional payments in pension, health and other cash. I am sometimes incredibly disappointed that we cannot with this thought penetrate that with a little patience and leave more money in people's pockets, that it will return to different ways of the state budget. And when we talk about these tax matters, it's hard to understand why we can't see that. This solution, which we have proposed, has been really simple. And not only would people be left with more in their pockets, but they would also solve the problem of these day-to-day migrants who are now working in Austria. And those of you who have debated today that there is no double taxation, you're right. This is the difference that these people have to pay to Slovenia, because Slovenia has higher labour taxes than Austria. If taxation were roughly the same between Austria and Slovenia, of course there would be no such surcharges. And this kind of income relief would solve this problem, but, of course, the coalition says no. That's too bad. It was a nice opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	Hello! I must, excuse me, respond once again to more general budgetary arguments. Yes, in recent years it has actually accumulated or has been flowing into the state treasury over a thousand million or one billion more revenue. But remember that now the budget is flattened in nominal figures, while in the past it was necessary to cover over a billion large gaps in the budget deficit. We have gradually reduced it since 2014 from a billion 300 to this year's level, which will be firmly below what is foreseen in the budget and in the nominal surplus next year. All these revenues must cover the deficit that has existed for years and years. This deficit did not arise to a large extent due to the coverage of the bank hole, even to a certain extent, but the bulk of this additional deficit in debt in relation to the level of indebtedness in 2008 until 2015, when the peak was reached, was charged with covering the current consumption deficit gap. As far as the essence of this question is concerned, as much as the additional spending of individuals on the state budget would give me, I must point out that this money is already being spent today. It is not spent by individuals through their personal consumption, but by us either for the common needs that I have referred to in more detail before, or by companies that are, in fact, companies that have to generate revenues with a certain spending. This does not mean that this will be an additional domestic consumption. Consumption alone will move from one entity to another entity. As far as excise policy is concerned, this is not the subject of more detailed treatment today, but as far as fuel oil is concerned, I must point out that, years ago, the state has adopted a policy to direct consumption or direct the population and other consumers to the use of heating systems that are less burdensome for the environment. As a result, by retaining the level of excise duty at a relatively high level, it contributed to the pursuit of environmental policy. When we talk about spending on health or the health system, we should not forget that, in addition to the budget, the basic source of financing for health services is a health treasury financed by contributions. Contributions are our contributions or our share in co-financing public health according to the principles of solidarity and contribution according to its economic power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	Replica mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	Dear Minister, now you've blown the hell out of it. This is what you do to make a fool of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia regarding excise duties on chicken oil. Let me tell you how much burden you have increased today in your mandate to the position that we are paying for electricity. Tell us how much extra oil, a liter of heating oil or a liter of petrol you have charged on the basis of additional loads. Tell me how many times you went to increase your excise duty in your mandate, and not to refer to a public debate to reduce your budget, I would say, the deficit. Dear Minister, tell us how much she was indebted to during your term of office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What was his debt when you entered the term, what was the debt today? Tell me if it's smaller or taller. Tell us more about the government of Borut Pahor, the government of Alenka Bratušek, and the government of Mir Cerar, where you were Secretary of State twice, once Minister, how much more you owed the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	The word is Micah Kordish. Let's get the mags ready. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, chairman! First of all, I will remain on the subject that we have not yet opened in the debate today, which is a matter of relief for the 13th salary. This is an initiative, a proposal adopted by the coalition at the joint point of the Union of Slovenian Free Trade Unions and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. We cannot support or strongly oppose such a measure in Levika for four reasons. For the first time, because it is unfair to all public sector workers who do not receive 13 salaries. Of course, we are not talking about any higher bureaucratic jokes or politics, but about professions such as nurses in hospitals, nurses in nursing homes for the elderly, firefighters and so on. Similarly, this measure is unfair to workers in the private sector who do not receive 13 salaries, for example, what kind of workers in espionage are among them. Next, such a tax-decommissioning measure of capital or employers is most beneficial to the larger workers with the highest wages and not to low-income workers. As the relief will increase by around 500 euros, someone will get at least 80 euros at the minimum, and those on some higher salary or on the highest wages will receive between 200 and 250 euros. It is said that once again the highest wages will truly profit, those on the lowest wages will hardly notice the difference, but in the meantime the system of our social state will be poorer. The result of this measure is also that 20 million Euros will be less profitable in our budget, which, of course, will finance investments in healthcare homes, subsidisation of kindergartens and so on. In short, all redistributive measures by the State to contribute to social justice. Here I have to stop with the union strategy that has favoured this proposal. I think that the new leadership of the Union of Slovenian Free Trade Unions has made a mistake, a serious mistake, a rank that should no longer be available in the future. And I thought I'd say good-bye. See if he went to a trade union in a pact with the Chamber of Commerce, with the organisation of capital, and for a tax burden based on employers he does not support, at least not actively, raising minimum wages, then we have to ask ourselves a little about what unions are doing and what interest they serve. Obviously so, it is for the interests of workers or of all working people that trade unions must take over. And this interest in the grave could be covered in two items, both directly and indirectly. And the direct labour interest is certainly as high as possible, these are also the direct wages, that is the amount that the employer pays to the employees. However, another interest is an indirect interest, and we can call it a public interest, which is the strengthening of the social state, which is said to be the highest possible income that finance social transfers, free health care, education, unemployment compensation, including pensions and so on. In short, all those items that cannot really be afforded as individuals are fueled by the country’s tax revenues. But we call it social pay, if that salary that you get in the account, the direct bear, it's a social wage, and it's right that it's, and it's right that it's as strong as possible, and that's certainly a class worker's interest. Therefore, union organisations cannot and must not cheer for any tax relief, but to draw on higher wages and incomes, both on the work account and on the expense of strengthening the social state. Some unionists argue that this move is justified by the fact that employers did not want to pay thirteen salaries above 70% of the average wage, which is the current regime of the thirteenth salary, and that payments should now be increased in order to increase the consumption that will compensate for this loss because employers will be taxed less. But that's not true. This argument doesn't empirically stand. For the first time, because we know the cases of companies paying the thirteenth salary even more than 70% of the average gross salary, even higher than 100% of the gross salary. A concrete example – This year's home, which is still in a situation without a new relief, paid the 13th salary of EUR 2 000 to all employees. And let me serve with one more concrete piece of information so that we don't just listen to the ideological mills of the right. Between 2015 and 2016 – these are the latest data we have – profit in the economy rose to €3.2 billion, rising by 70% in one year. By 70%! Money in the economy is enough, but it doesn't pay. Why don't we get paid better? Is there a tax problem? Yeah, obviously not if there's a net profit of 170 percent as much as there was a year ago. Apparently, it's not too much taxes, but it's too much capitalist greed. And lower taxes are water on the mill of this greed, not water on the mill of solidarity, and not water on the mill of the working class. In these arguments, the right hand – after all, on what other occasion are these arguments of the liberals – does not add to the accuracy. There is more truth in the Bible than there is in the mythology of the free market, that now we will leave money for the rich and this money will somehow magically spill into the benefit of the working class so that the workers will have higher wages. Figo fresco! It never happened anywhere. It's never gonna happen. There was also talk about the social market economy. I fear that our country has become increasingly marketable over the past 25 years and increasingly less social. And that's why we have a growing inequality. That is why we have the declining standards of the vast majority, the working majority of the population and the inhabitants of our country. And all these tax reliefs for the rich, for the capital with which the right is pressing, but in fact despite their bells about social justice, the government is doing it, it is the central liberal government, to understand and they are taking us, as my colleague Horvat would say, in the direction of Bulgaria, in the direction of Bangladesh. See, these are not measures by which the rich countries of the type of Germany should be affected and by which they should be exemplary. These are tax relief measures, which, in a practical case, have led Bulgaria to believe that this is the country from which on average the most people escape, I think they are being rushed by only Bosnia or something out there. Now let's ask ourselves whether we really want to turn the Republic of Slovenia into a Dalmatian Bangladesh, or whether we would rather follow a development strategy that has, say, turned our northern neighbour or Germany into Europe's economic engine. Thus, concluded production chains with companies producing final products managed by working groups, which are also publicly owned, capable of paying high wages that are able to invest themselves in their development, thus ensuring that the basic conditions can also grow and develop around these concluded economic chains and clusters. without its development being dependent on tax exemptions. And the wolf is full, and the goat is whole and the life in our country is much better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	The word has magic. Andrej Šircelj, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance should then be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government. In this debate on taxes or the cause of change of the Income Act, of course, a number of things have already been said, so that it would somehow take a look at this overall macroeconomic situation in this regard. In fact, the minister summed up Mrs Christine Lagarde in some way, who said: “Now is growth and now is the time for reforms.” But these reforms are not here. So it is now a little strange that a government minister who has not reformed anything, not in the financial, not in the health, not in the pension, not in the economic, not in any field, evidence that she has done nothing in the economic field for greater investment is, for example, specific laws for individual investments. Such laws were enacted in some less developed countries in the 20th century, not in the 21st century, in the post-colonial period, when such laws were passed, for example in some African countries, for foreign investment. We accept them now. In the health field – look what was done. Despite the fact that the IMF says that now is the time for reforms, nothing has been done, unless you consider the reforms to extend waiting lines and that more and more people are sick and fewer people are getting health care. After all, the health system itself is so frail that people simply cannot get to a doctor if they reapply. This is information, the latest information, for example, for Kranj, that was the information. I'm sure the secretary knows more. Even tax reforms, if you're talking about reforms, I wouldn't even talk about reforms, but about the minor tax changes that have gone in the direction that these taxes have increased. That's why anything is reforming, sand in our eyes, that's not true. I use nice terms here. Above all, nothing can be done to make people feel better and easier and to live and live better. I'm not talking about having a happier life, so people will take care of themselves, but actually live better. And if we have on one side, as the minister said, that it would not be cheaper to have fuel oil, that we have guidance for citizens, that they should be heated with less harmful fuels, see, then the next question is why you have, say, diesel fuel or gasoline fuel in Austria's Koroška at 15 cents per litre. Now, don't say it now, because there's a different price on the highways, because petrol pumps between 2 and 3 kilometers from the highways have such prices. We can go geographically, if you want, all over Koroška, and of course from Grossglockner there then to Graz, if we take this as Koroška. So you actually have no argument here that this government actually does something for a person, something for a citizen of Slovenia, something for a citizen of Slovenia. Forgive me here, if you can, of course, talk about whether the macroeconomic situation is now equal and that the revenue is the same as the expenditure and so on. And here's the problem, by the way, purely professional. Minister, not today, but she was talking about the so-called primary surplus in balance sheet A. Look, if you take balance B and interest, then we're far from surplus. But you don't say that. It's a delusion. Nor is it, if we say so, nor is it, because you've just invented a new expression of the primary surplus, it says, from Balance A. If we take another balance with B or C, then there's actually no surplus. These are the facts, these are the numbers. There's a billion interest or 800 million interest, and there's actually this manco. Nor does it hold that we have, but, however, today we have a better position, we have a better macroeconomic position. Everyone agrees with that. But not because of this country, but because of the growth in Europe, the growth of our largest partners, where we export, I think about Germany, too, France, but this is because of exporters and the economy. We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party to give them further incentives to be encouraged at all, but not to say that on the one hand, the country will now, as if it were something outside of this universe, give people, so to speak, a tax on the income of legal persons. Wait, maybe now, but six months ago you raised the rate from 17% to 19% of the corporate income tax. And it's similar now to the flatulence. If I now read what you actually wrote here or what the Government actually wrote, here the conditions for stopwatches are exacerbated. Why? Because you simply said in this paper that some people abuse the system or that the system doesn't work, that's your word. Look, the abuse of the system is when someone is probably doing something legally inconceivable or legally unacceptable. But if someone works under the law, they don't abuse anything, at least that's how I understand it. Maybe you understand that differently. But no, of course you're here now sharpening it, analyzing who is the one who in some way abused the system, but instead of checking it with the Financial Administration, checking it out, of course, on the spot, you might be doing some analysis here, but don't do that. And more than that, you're blurring the whole situation here. Why? Because, see, in a few days' time, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission will re-examine employment and employment issues in Luka Koper about so-called so-called "quote", they speak in the press about bosses and so on, who have espés. In the Income Act, you have precise provisions when an independent act becomes a dependent act. Which means, in other words, when someone works as an independent entrepreneur, it's taxed like it's pay. And to do so with many, many small entrepreneurs, this is how this government makes it easy to come and tax it as a wage, a small entrepreneur. If this works in a large system, it is not because, look at the end of the day, the Financial Administration at one of the meetings of this Commission admitted that it is not going to visit Luka Koper at all. While reviewing these individuals and so on, the system itself that makes it possible does not actually do so, and this is why all this is actually a total blur is a respected government, a blurring of the actual state. On this basis, you are changing the law now, instead of making inspections work that you should do in order to ensure the system of operation of flat-rate entrepreneurs, you change the system after a few years, after a few months, but you do not really know how to operate and control it. You can't even do that to live. It's the work of this government. And this is actually an intervention in terms of business conditions and conditions for better entrepreneurship. You don't do it, you don't know it, you can't do it, or you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tillen Bozič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. First of all, I have to say a few words about these last statements that have been made, however. And what you said about abuse is that it eliminates abuse and so on. Thus, the spirit of the solutions provided for in the law adopted at the time was, in our view, one and in practice certain deviations were found. Such deviations should not, in principle, be in line with the objectives set at that time. I hope it wasn't a leaky system set up on purpose, but even if it was, it'd be about time we patched these holes up a little bit. This is not the case for all those in debt, so those who normally do business will not be affected by this. It affects only those who may have been very innovative, but this system could be exploited beyond what some of these targeted gabarites were. It is said that we are talking about a significant administrative and tax burden on those small taxpayers who need it. We can call it encouragement, help and so on. It was said that we can't make the system come back to life, and we're changing it. I would still mention that now, on average, I think in the last few years there have been between 8 and 10 thousand new commitments in this group. As far as competitiveness is concerned, our exports are growing tremendously. Part of GDP growth, a very large part of GDP growth on this elephant. Foreign direct investment is growing, significantly. This suggests that we are obviously competitive in certain elements. We have also said, as the Ministry of Finance, that we are not competitive in certain matters as regards future tax guidelines, and this is, above all, a burden of work comparable to that of others. And that's what the future will be about, and that's what this change you've got on the table today is about. In certain elements, it is said that when we talk about those with the lowest income, there is a general relief, a smaller adjustment to this increased general relief, that there are no more stairs because they were actually guilty. As far as students are concerned – raising them from 75 to the height of general relief, this relief. As far as posting is concerned, this is an additional thing which I think is very important for Slovenian employers or employees, it is said how we deal with short-term postings and in this way also prevent any confusion and thus some consequences for the economy. There have been many things in there, from being up to 30 days, this is a short-term referral if we look at certain costs or reimbursements that employees would have on such a mission, so that the tax treatment is equal to treatment in the case of a business journey abroad. Similarly, if we go to look at those who are on a longer journey, we have put some additional solutions in, so as to be recognized, it is clear that someone has to come to the location to which he is headed, it is said that those costs associated with coming to that location and returning at the end of that journey are only exempt from taxation, which has not been so far, from the part of transport to work and from work. In addition, there is a refund for lunch, which increases by 80% in the spirit that has been in force for some time now, such a solution has been introduced for migrant workers across borders, and that meal is recognised in a higher proportion. Here I would also mention and support by the Ministry of Finance of the Amendment, which was tabled by three coalition parties, namely SMC, Desus and SD. This concerns two matters. The first thing about short-term referrals is the solution that hung in the air on the Committee on Finance that accommodation is a recognised cost or is not counted, so to speak, to the employee’s credit rating up to 30 days. They are now proposing that this would be 90 days, which we think makes sense as well. And secondly, the field of drivers in international transport, because the nature of their work is specific, which is also recognised at European level, is now coming up with new solutions. In their case, it is envisaged that the referral up to 90 days shall be treated as provided for a solution for up to 30 days for others, so that the treatment shall be the same as it would have been in the case of a business journey abroad. It was said, repeatedly in the same breath, that we should let employers reward their employees, but we should allow them to do so. I'd like to re-emphasize, last year, so to speak, with 1. 1. 2017, a provision has entered into force which allows this so-called 13 salary or, if you wish, the Christmas tree is not taxed with income of up to 70%. At this stage, we have reached one intriguing point, namely, the Ministry of Finance is of the view that this measure has not yet been fully operational, as most will probably pay in part in November and a large majority in December. Our position was that we would not change this until at least one year of the regime went through, so that we could think about it on the basis of calculations. Nevertheless, the coalition decided, subject to reservations by the Ministry of Finance, to table an amendment and propose to raise this benefit from 70 per cent of the average wage. This also raises the volume of public funds that will come into the budget a little bit, as it would have if this change hadn't occurred, so we'll also come from our initial assessment, which was that the unloading would be somewhere below EUR 20 million, probably close to EUR 25, maybe even EUR 30 million, and we'll see that the second year that these Christmases or 13th wages will be paid. Given the dynamics that the employment rate is rising, the number of active workers, etc. has also increased, but there are already first indications that workers are lacking. Such situations will continue to increase, and it is likely that employers will start to retain their employees in some way at the expense of being able to say that they will be paid a reward for the company's business performance in the future in such a way or in a different way, it is said that the number of these prizes paid will increase. However, it is likely that the height will also increase, at least as stated by the representatives of employers or, above all, the Chamber of Commerce of the Republic of Slovenia. But I can do more later.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. The package of tax changes that we have ahead of us today is the continuation of past tax restructurings, and it is mainly in the direction of improvement for people. At this point, I would also like to touch on past tax restructuring measures, which we have been doing somehow since 2015. If I somehow focus on the fact that already in 2015 there were tax exemptions for investment in trucks and buses, then the abolition of the threshold for compulsory accounting in the management of basic agricultural and forestry activities was measures to reduce administrative barriers to imports, in particular in the direction of simplifying VAT accounting, then from the scope of the Income Change Act, where a new tax grade was introduced between the applicable second and third classes with a rate of 34% tax reduction, this is said to have been from 41 to 39, then an increase in the income threshold for eligibility to an additional general benefit of 300 euros at an annual level, then an exemption from income payment for part of the business performance income of the so-called Christmas house of 70 % will be paid in this year's annual Christmas. This package, which we have before us today, is the continuation of these restructurings, and it is mainly in the direction that it is easy to meet people, especially in the field of standardisation. The Normans practically remain on a 20 % cedular tax, as in the past. Most of these standardised people are kind of in the income circle, I'll say, the largest share is 35,000 per year. Of course, this law eliminates certain anomalies that have proved to be in the past, and the abuse that has occurred in the past will be eliminated by this new law. In doing so, however, I would like to point out that there is also a change in the linear determination of income relief. This means that the growth in income will result in a proportionate reduction in the facilitation. So that someone who is going to go over the step scale for one euro will be able to do so in a proportionate way. Therefore, those who exceed the minimum, will be relatively taxed, not as is now the case, that they went to the next income class and were then significantly taxed. I would also like to point out in this regard that, in the field of posting workers, students and reimbursement of travel expenses, it will be possible to consider these posted workers to be posted for up to 90 days. Then a special personal allowance for students who are educated will be granted student or student status, from the current 75% will increase to the total amount of general relief. The changes bring improvements mainly for low-income and posted workers, so we cannot really talk about not being able to meet people. True, it was obvious, however, that the opposition was not aware of this economic growth and a more successful economy in the pocket, and I believe that this is gradually known, but of course not overnight and quickly. I also remember when the crisis occurred in 2008, even then, except for the one who lost his job, the world collapsed during the night when this work was lost, but in general the crisis was gradually rising and the peak reached there 2012–2013 with us. Thus, now that we are slowly overcoming the crisis with this economic growth, even slowly, it is also known in people. And in general, these incomes may actually be growing minimally, but they are gradually increasing. And I believe that we will also try all the measures that we are actually trying to do in this period, even the Government is trying to make them aware of this in the next period in the quality of people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to respond to the statement made by the Minister, who gave us the statement made by the first lady of the IMF, who said, Mrs Lagarde, that I should say that now is not the time for reforms, somehow in this sense. This must be a very appropriate statement for this government and this coalition. Of course, it's not the time to reform, if you've already done it, but in Slovenia we haven't, you haven't done it. There's a difference. And everyone tells us, all our allies, they all tell us, now, now that the economy is in bloom, when it is a conjuncture, now is the time for reform measures. And, colleagues and colleagues, let us be honest with those who accompany this meeting, let us be honest with our taxpayers and, please, do not talk about any tax reform, about some force to the big tax reform package – it is about cosmetic adjustments when we talk about the government's proposals. If the New Slovenia proposal were to be adopted, where a new €7 000 general relief would be introduced into the income, this would be a robust measure and could be considered as a reform measure. What you're sharing now, you're saying about 16 million euros, you're dividing this 16 million, please, into two million people, and you can talk about half a cup of ice cream and so on. How quickly the abuse of some, in this case the First Lady of the IMF, of the International Monetary Fund can occur. You have therefore missed the reforms and this is a great loss. I welcome that you have reached a nominal surplus in the budget documents. Constantly New Slovenia warns, see also the structure of the budget. We have a structural deficit. We are underinvesting in structural efforts measured by gross domestic product. What has the European Commission already said about our or your budget for 2018? I believe that, if not someone else, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission will say something if it does not. So don't shut your eyes. I regret that we do not take advantage of this positive climate to ensure that we all, for all of us, have a better and more stable future for 2 million of us. Today we need to think about whether we are ready for the future crisis that will come, we do not know when, but will. We know what the macroeconomic cycles are like. And we in New Slovenia would be pleased to hear more from the government, of course, every government to listen to the economy. I don't know if the top of the Slovenian economy is more intended for government representatives to go there, coalitions etc. to take pictures, then come home and forget what they heard there. Very important things have been said there. I think it is the Slovenian economy that is the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is, of course, also a union, that these are all partners when we talk about business, if you want, the tax environment in this country. The director of the Chamber of Commerce had a very interesting solution at this top of the economy, but this government will no longer be able to implement it because the budget is under the roof or under the hat, the government is leaving, the mandate is over. While this case is not new, it proposes that the higher inflows to the budget for higher employment and consequently the smaller outflows from the budget for smaller unemployment be added, plus that the higher inflows from the higher value added tax rate and the higher corporate income tax be aggregated and divided into three thirds. The first third is to reduce public debt, and the second third is to reduce the different needs of the budget, the legal obligations, etc., the third third, i.e. only a third, the economy is not greedy, and only a third of these higher revenues are to relieve work, that is our rakrana, that is what we are all saying, to relieve work – and this is what Nova Slovenija is doing now – and to invest in research and innovation. We're at the bottom here. I have said this a hundred times in the budget debates. We want to be some developed society, a developed economy – no way, we are underinvesting. Of course, the private sector must invest here, businesses, but also smart countries must invest the state budget as well. We are here at the bottom of the European Union. And now we expect to be very prepared for another crisis. We expect that the trained personnel, who are towing horses of our development, economy and society, will remain at home. They won't, they'll go out. And here's the problem. The economy is articulating, proposing solutions, but not hearing them. Indeed, the government went there to paint, to the top of the economy, not to listen to the economy, because it simply does not understand how the world economy works.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Christmas, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I was also present when the Minister was in charge or representing her position, and it was not said that now is not the time for reform. She said now is not the time to lower taxes when she mentioned talking to Mrs Lagarde. That's the first word. The second thing is, you said it in a way, the crust works. Let's cut public finances by 500 million. I have already said this several times, if we are in charge of financing current spending, it means that it is a tax deferment, because it will have to be collected once with taxes, and it will have to be the deferral for which interest will have to be paid. Always a burden to the economy and to the debtors so there will be no mistake. And this government is striving for balanced public finances and not to overburden future generations or what is said has been mentioned in the debate as to whether we are ready for the next crisis. This is exactly what we are preparing for the next crisis. It is said that the budget is becoming balanced to reduce debt in relative proportion – and this is already in relative proportion to GDP – but at the same time, that some of it is being repaid, to somehow get under the 60% of GDP, which is kind of one reasonable milestone set by these so-called Maastricht criteria. As for the GZS, the unions and so on, they are partners, I fully agree. For this reason, too, when possible, with many or more people, even in a narrower ESS group. I am not saying that we agreed on everything, but I am saying that we presented the solutions, said what is the red thread of what we want to achieve with this. In many of these we have received comments, and we have also taken note of a number of comments. And this has also been mirrored in fact by these solutions that are on the table today, and I suppose they will also be complemented in part through the amendment of the coalition. So that the manoeuvre space to reduce the workload is still evolving in some way, it is said that we are still spending a little bit more than we collect with taxes. Now we're going slowly, in some time frame, we're probably going to get into the overheating phase, and then we're not going to see pro-cyclical measures, but anti-cyclical measures, because if not, then once we get down there, there's nothing left to do. I don't think it's necessary to come from any theory or practice of other countries, which means a pro-cyclical approach, because I think that in Slovenia it was relatively strong at the time just before the recession or just before the crisis, which then turned out to be, it's said, that the loss of public finances was so over, we can say, a tax on the income of legal persons and some other sources has led to a hole or that the accumulated debt on the national shoulders or on the shoulders of citizens and citizens of this country being as big as it could have been. Even so, the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Government, in this mandate, has repeatedly pointed out that despite this optimism, which is now being strengthened, it is necessary to keep sober minds and think about what will happen after that, because it has certainly been a recession, given that it is still going on in cycles. It is only then that it is reasonable that we are now being prudent, that we will all be less hit by the head and that citizens and citizens will be better able to cope with the next crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Madam Secretary of State, if we are being quite precise, Mrs Christine Lagarde did not say about Slovenia that there is no time to lower taxes now. She probably said that about the global economy, because it's an international monetary fund. Of course not for those countries where work is not as burdensome as it is in Slovenia. For 6.7 percentage points, work in Slovenia is more burdensome than the OECD average. We need to talk about these numbers so we don't get ping-pong. But I think we both know what we're supposed to do, and we're not, or we're not. Public debt, if you are talking about 2008 and overheating the economy, is fair to say that at that time, in relation to gross domestic product, public debt amounted to a good 20% in 2008, when Dr Andrej Bajuk was coming from the Ministry of Finance. So much for that. All of us are actually working together to have more of those who create, that is, the workers. Workers. That's what this is about. We want the business environment to be competitive for foreign investors to come to us, to open jobs offering high wages and high standards. I dread looking at Gini's coefficient and comparing it with other Member States, we are again among the champions or we are not champions. We're champions because we're an egalitarian society. I want us to be egalitarian, but egalitarian in that it's good for everyone. Some say, “We are egalitarian in poverty.” Indeed, if I repeat that during last year, 280 thousand people, our citizens and citizens lived below the poverty threshold. That's terrible. This is terrible, and we say that the best social policy is the one that creates new jobs. It won't be any different. With regard to competitiveness, you will not be of good will if I repeat the results of the Swiss International Institute for Management Development. Slovenia is stagnating, it has maintained 43rd place. I have to say, I'm sure you're not happy with that either. I wish we were somewhere between the first and the twentieth. But here in this area, something has to be done. We should sit, if necessary, day and night, together with an economy that knows the situation on the European and global market. I believe that you can't do everything or that politics can't meet the requirements, it can't. But here's the case I gave you about those thirds, but it's very interesting, it would be worth considering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Matthew Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Vice President, thank you very much. In some ways, this amendment is applied to flatulers or norms, regardless of what we call them. I have to go back a little bit to history and tell you at least where the extensions of this arrangement we have today and which is very well received between many entrepreneurs and craftsmen. There, in 2014, when my first term ended, and when we were practically at the turn of the elections, this bullet was slightly weaker between the coalition and the opposition, even the coalition MPs were much more receptive that they also supported some opposition proposals. And then, together with the Slovenian People's Party, we were able to bring together two laws through the parliamentary procedure, which practically established the current system of standardised or flatulers. I think that this arrangement has been extremely simple, and that is that what an individual deserves, the state recognises from that profit 80 % as a cost, as a standard cost, and the remainder of 20% is taxed at a 20% rate or, if I say even more simply, on what you have earned, on what you have paid 4% of the tax. How well this solution was taken, it also shows that some 15,000 additional people were practically involved in this system and no one complained about the amount of this tax, but above all everyone loved the clarity of this system, because they knew in advance how much tax you would pay, and at the same time this system was eliminated, because you know, such and different fraud or travel costs, looking for invoices that an entrepreneur had reduced the tax base and similar things. And wherever you came from, this thing was welcomed and encouraged in the sense that such flat-rate taxes should be further encouraged by the standardised ones. Then the government came in the summer with some system, with some proposal that would virtually destroy the system, complicated it to the end. If the government proposal had been applied, we would have gone back to a classic bureaucratic system where the individual would never know what kind of tax he had to pay. And thank God, I can say that this is where the government took a step back and withdrew from this proposal. This is a good thing, so that the basic dimensions and frameworks still contain the solution that was established in 2014. The government is now trying to avoid possible abuses with some additional elements. Certainly what they now propose is much better than what they proposed in the summer, because what they proposed in the summer was really pointless. Because if there are individuals who abuse this system and use it improperly, then they need to be tackled and not punished in this way. Okay, that was taken into account. What does our amendment, which we have also tabled in this article, speak of? To put it very simply, the government in some way assumes that the earnings you earn, which can make you in the system of standardised or flat-rates, can be summed up and taken into account in two years. Since you may earn slightly less in one year, in the second year a little bit more, but in the total sum it is still within the framework provided for flat-rate taxation or standardised persons, say 200 000 euros of income in two years together. From here on, however, the government proposes differently, so how now the tax base will be reduced, how the standard costs will be taken into account. Here the government does not enforce the principle of a total sum, but sets a literal limit for one year. Perhaps this material is very complicated and is best to explain it on a concrete case, if we have a singer who in one year earns 40 000 euros and in the other year 160 thousand euros, this is still within the framework of these gauges, which are intended for standardisation, but the government, as proposed, of course in the first year where the earnings are 40 thousand euros, takes account of 80% of the standard costs, but in the second year where the income is higher, of course, 160 thousand euros, the limit for standardised costs still sets, as if this individual had earned 100,000 euros because it sets the limit on these 80 thousand euros. And of course, if you add this together, the standard expenditure will be lower than it could be if you applied the same principle for standard expenditure as we have in revenue to take account of both two years together. Our amendment is only going in this direction, in order to take account of the standard expenditure each year on a case-by-case basis, and that there are no additional restrictions, if all of this is within the two-year framework. This, I think, would make sense to support it, because the actual system would also be simple and, above all, we would insist on this concept, which we have already set up in 2014.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th agenda. I hereby terminate the 26th item of the agenda. Let's move on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Tiln Bozic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax, the main purpose of which is to strengthen the mechanisms for curbing the abuse of the system and to ensure systemic consistency. As mentioned, additional mechanisms are proposed to prevent abuse of the tax base system by taking into account standardised expenditure. The revenue-finding provision, which represents the upper limit for the possibility of determining the tax base, is being upgraded, taking into account the standardised expenditure. Thus, in the case of connected persons, revenue may be aggregated unless the debtor proves that his situation is in line with the objectives and purposes of such a determination of the tax base. On the basis of the renewed condition for compulsory withdrawal from the system, the undertaking must withdraw from the system if its average income of two consecutive tax periods exceeds EUR 150 000. Furthermore, the amount of the standardised expenditure is limited by an absolute amount, i.e. they cannot exceed EUR 40 000 or EUR 80 000 for the debtors with at least one insured person. It is also proposed to harmonise tax legislation with the provisions of International Financial Reporting Standard No 9, financial instruments, in order to ensure that all the effects of revaluations are included and that all financial instruments are reclassified into a tax base. This says that if there is no change through the profit statement, but through another comprehensive return, that, because it would somehow result from the deduction of corporate income taxes, the difference is included in the calculation of corporate income tax. Dear President, honourable Members and Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the draft law provides for appropriate adjustments to tax legislation in the light of perceived situations and also proposes to support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 82nd emergency meeting. 11. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which supports the proposed law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment to the draft law was tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 3 and by Member Jožef Horvat to Article 4 of the bill. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance presented the main objectives and main solutions to the bill presented today from this city. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the service in its written opinion had pointed out that, in terms of clarity, it was necessary to verify the individual proposed definitions and explained that the amendment tabled by the three groups of Members took that view into account. It has further identified solutions related to compliance with standardised expenditure, which raises the issue of equal treatment of taxable persons already in the system of standardised expenditure and those who cannot enter it on such incomes. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Member to Article 4, she drew attention to the need for a clearer definition of the relationship between the two solutions, whether 80 % of the revenue can be applied as standard expenditure or the amounts fixed at an absolute level. In the view of the service, the nomotechic approach proposed by the government is clearer from this point of view. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee generally expressed their support for the solutions proposed. The view was expressed that these maintain a favourable tax system of standardised expenditure for the taxpayers, while at the same time helping to eliminate perceived anomalies and limit the possibility of abuse in the standardised expenditure system. Some discussers felt that the solutions to the bill and other tax laws put forward were too ambitious and would not contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and burdening the taxpayers. During the discussion, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance gave comprehensive answers and clarified the questions raised and the debates raised, including the arguments why the Government does not support the amendment to Article 4. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 3 but did not adopt the amendment to Article 4. He voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons interferes with the definition of interlinked persons acting in a coordinated manner and acting in practice as one company or group. In such a case, of course, it is correct, and also in accordance with the principle of fairness, that the tax should be deducted from the whole rather than that the group of interconnected companies should share the costs and thus reduce a fair tax obligation for all. In the current cases, this was in fact a misuse of the system aimed at facilitating the business of small businesses. We must be aware that this abuse has made the available public resources poor in particular, while imposing higher tax obligations on others, which is certainly not correct, and therefore this law is aimed at maintaining such an opportunity to facilitate small businesses, while at the same time allowing the competent authorities to have a basis to prevent abuses and therefore to assess a fair tax. By adopting these amendments to the law, we will make it easier for the Financial Administration to identify interconnected business entities and also give them a legal basis to measure a fair tax obligation. That's why we're going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons brings a number of changes. The first relates to the prevention of abuse of the standardised system through connected persons. The proposal seeks to prevent abuses in the integration into the standardisation system. Some debtors, for example, are included among the standard-holders with the intention of creating several legal entities. This is done, for example, by setting up two companies for business, each company’s revenues are thus lower and both companies meet the criteria for inclusion in the system. In order to prevent abuses in such cases, the amendment proposes that the revenue of the persons involved in the determination of the standardised persons be aggregated. Thus, they would no longer be low enough to be included in the system. The related persons are determined in accordance with the existing provisions of the law on the basis of ownership or family ties and the related persons can prove that the main purpose of the link is not to abuse the rules. In Novi Slovenija we understand that the Government wants to prevent system abuse, but we note that the bill will present problems for connected persons who do not act in order to abuse the rules of integration into the system of standardised expenditure. These persons will have to prove, after the reverse burden of proof, that their way of action does not violate the rules of the law. Unfortunately, this solution will be just another one of those who, in their desire to punish dishonest entrepreneurs, will strike those who do what is right. We understand the Government's desire to prevent abuses, but we would expect that after the increase in corporate income tax from 17% to 19%, it would finally bring some relief. In the current legal regime, the withdrawal from the standardised system is mandatory if the debtor of two successive tax periods does not meet the conditions for entry into the system. The conditions for entry into the system shall be met by a company that has up to EUR 50 000 in revenue or up to EUR 100 000 in revenue if at least one person is fully insured in the company. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that before the end of the previous mandate, we have been able to improve the system by increasing the level of standardised expenditure from 70 to 80% and by allowing inclusion among standardised companies with up to 100,000 euros in income. After this government proposal for the amendment, the debtor may remain in the system if, in two successive tax periods, it has a total of up to EUR 300,000 in revenue, that is, despite exceeding the thresholds for entry into the system. This will give the system flexibility, which we support, as society in the standardisation system will stay easier. However, this change also brings an absolute ceiling of €40 000 and €80 000 for legal persons with at least one full insured person. Where the amount of standardised expenditure is higher than that limit, this limit will therefore be taken into account. In practice, the new law therefore poses a problem for entrepreneurs whose incomes vary considerably from year to year. Therefore, for better years, they may encounter an absolute limit on standard expenditure, although on average they meet the conditions for maintaining the standardised system on an average of two years under both new and old law. In New Slovenia, we are pleased that the system of so-called standardizers, which we designed with our proposal for a law, works well in practice. The entrepreneurs are pleased with him. That is why this bill, which changes this system, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Vice President. We will not support the proposed law in Levica. The government is proposing some kind of cosmetic correction of flat-rate corporate taxation, which, in our view, should be abolished or at least very strongly confused. Before I define myself until a technical solution, I must say that the taxation of capital in Slovenia is in the first place absolutely too low and that there is a whole range of tax reliefs that further reduces the country's revenues. Slovenia collects only good 10% of all taxes with capital taxes, while some of the other members of the European Union collect almost 30% from this title. As a result, we feel all the inhabitants of Slovenia. Firstly, because we have low tax capital, we have high taxed consumption. The result is high prices of electricity, gasoline, fuel oil and similar emergency supplies. In fact, we can say that the Slovenian tax system, on the one hand, favours capital holders and high incomes and, on the other hand, disproportionately burdens ordinary citizens. Secondly, due to the under-taxed capital of high value assets and high incomes, we are collecting insufficient funds for the development of the social state. Governmental and right-wing politicians tell us all the time that Slovenia should have record high taxes, but Slovenia comparatively collects significantly less resources not only than Austria and Germany, but also as Hungary. The consequences of the country's under-income are felt every day in the form of long waiting lines in health care, poor conditions in nursing homes and in many other areas. Data show that companies' profits and income from capital received by natural persons are undertaxed. Slovenia still has one of the lowest rates of corporate tax. In Germany, this tax rate is 29%, with us only 19%. In addition, our actual taxation for various benefits is still significantly lower and is around 11%. In fact, it is not surprising that the profits of companies have increased by as much as 70% last year, while revenues from profit tax have increased by only 0.8%. Yeah, you heard right, 0.8%. It is also unfair to tax income on capital. At times, income from capital was taxed along with income from work and on a progressive scale. Since the first Janšev government has exempt them from progressive taxation, a pensioner who has not paid dividend tax according to the old system pays the tax at the same rate as a pidov baron. On the other hand, the Pidov Baron, who would sometimes pay a tax at a rate of 50%, is now paying only 25% if, of course, he hasn't hidden his property long ago in some tax haven. Given the fact that 20% of Slovenians own more than 62% of all assets, it is clear that the tax policy led by this Cerar government benefits exclusively the people with the highest wealth and the highest income. The flat-rate taxation of shares seems irrelevant in the context of unfair taxation of capital in Slovenia. Nevertheless, we are convinced by the Socialists that the flat-rate taxation of parts should be abolished, but not only cosmetically modified. Flat-rate taxation is permissible only for self-employed persons who do not employ workers, and only if they have very low incomes. Deoo, on the other hand, is a legal form for a company that is supposed to employ more workers and have some fixed capital. The partoo should in all cases be taxed against the actual costs, not to be misused to avoid paying taxes, to abuse labour rights and similar activities, which ultimately have nothing to do with management.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! In our Group of Members, the tax package that is on the table today, we will not object. Certain solutions are going in the right direction, but of course what is before us today cannot be called tax reform. I was even more disturbed by the Minister's statement at the previous point, she said: "This year's tax reform is the continuation of last year." I believe or hope that we all know that the tax system should be a stable system, that taxpayers know what awaits them from year to year. But no, we, at the end of the year and preferably at the end of the year, are changing this year's tax system. No, that's not how the tax system changes. The tax system should be stable so that people and the end of the company, as well as the new investors that we so want, know what awaits them in our country. And one more thing I would like to point out is the VAT rise that was made during the crisis and, hand to heart, during the crisis. It was introduced by the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, by non-systemic law. Now that the crisis is over, so at least you speak and so show data, for the same amount as the added value tax should be raised in the budget, some other tax should be reduced. I am also not in favour of lowering the value added tax rate because I do not think there would be any significant added value, but for the scale, it is true that between €200 million and €300 million should be reduced by another tax burden. I tend to see it as a payload. It is true that you are slightly lowering the load of the 13th wage, or Christmas, but that is far too little. And it is true that such a reduction in tax expenditure cannot be made, indeed, but, dear colleagues from the coalition and the distinguished representative of the Government, with almost 5% of economic growth, there should be more than 50 million euro surplus in the budget. While I would like to point out that certain groups of people in our country are still subject to crisis austerity measures with such high economic growth. But anyway, you've decided to pull it off, you'll pull it off, you won't do much damage, and you're not actually going to do any good.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Respected and respected! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons is aimed at establishing a mechanism to prevent abuse. This builds on the revenue provision, which represents the ceiling for the possibility of determining the tax base by taking into account standardised expenditure. It is proposed that, in addition to the current case of newly established debtors, the linkage of persons in relation to the conduct of a non-compliance with the objectives and purposes of such a determination of the tax base be determined as a particular case. It is established that in the case of connected persons, the revenue is to be calculated. However, the debtor can always prove that his case or situation is in line with the objectives and purposes of such a determination of the tax base. The conditions for compulsory withdrawal from the system shall be renewed in such a way that the debtor has to withdraw from the system if its average income of two consecutive tax periods exceeds the amount of EUR 150 000, which is different from that of the current regime when the withdrawal from the system is compulsory. If the debtor of two successive tax periods does not meet the conditions for entry into the system, the debtor may thus remain in the system if, in two successive tax periods, he has a total of up to EUR 300,000 in revenue, that is, despite the excess of the annual income thresholds, in order to gain flexibility. The bill also proposes measures to include all the effects of revaluations and to classify all financial instruments in the tax base. It is proposed to include the following effects which do not affect the tax base under the provisions of the applicable tax legislation. The effects of changes in the fair value of equity assets measured at fair value by effects in another comprehensive relationship, if the entity so irrevocably decides at the time of initial recognition and if it is not in possession of trading or condition of a remuneration of the acquirer in a business merger and the effects of changes in fair value due to a change in its own credit risk on financial liabilities measured at fair value through the profit or loss account. However, it is important for those with multiple undertakings to be subject to a mandatory exit from the standardisation system when the debtor exceeds a total of EUR 300,000 in two consecutive years. All other tax rates remain at 20%. As a result of all of this, we will support the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We will not support the proposed amendments to the Law on Complementation of the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. We won't support it for a number of reasons. We are convinced that the proposed changes are not appropriate. The proposed changes are poorly written and in some cases even to the detriment of those who actually fill the budget in a fair manner. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the tax area needs a comprehensive reform, a comprehensive reform that we should have prepared years ago, but unfortunately the government of Mir Cerar and the coalition of the Modern Centre Party failed to prepare the entire mandate. The fact is that tax legislation under this government and under this coalition has been rectified per partes, and above all, I would say to the detriment and additional burden of both companies and individuals.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Once again a very nice greeting for everyone! The point of the country's tax policy is not only to fill the state budget at the expense of new taxes or higher tax rates, but to make the existing system as effective as possible. Such an effort to increase the effect of tax collection has also been committed by the current government. In the Desus Group, we would simply add that tax collection must be primarily fairly and evenly divided among the debtors. Tax simplifications and benefits are also one way to make the tax environment more favourable and friendly to all categories of taxpayers. We attach such an opinion to the Group of Members, but in the same breath we point out that we must not let those who deliberately violate the law and fail to fulfil their obligations in doing so. Some time ago, a new up-to-date list of well-known media faces hid their money in the so-called tax oasis was added to the media. It is people from different social spheres, and the common denominator of all should be that they are role models and role models for others. In the Group of Members, we really wonder whether tax crime has become a fashion trend, followed blindly by everyone and by the competent institutions. Since when has tax culture landed at the bottom of the list of moral principles? In the Desus Group, we strongly oppose such irresponsible conduct. We believe that all levers must be provided to prevent the grey economy in all categories of taxpayers and help those who create new jobs and promote the economic recovery of the country in a fair manner. As has already been said when it comes to controlling effective collection of taxes, there must be no difference, regardless of whether there are aligres for small or large fish, which is why we confirm today's proposal that will bring in additional mechanisms to prevent system abuse in standardisation. Thus, the revenue provision, which represents the ceiling for the possibility of determining the tax base, is being renewed, taking into account standardised expenditure, and the conditions for compulsory exit from the system are also changing. We will unanimously support the proposed amendment in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 27th item of the agenda. We're moving to 28. At the end of the day, that is to say a bill on amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Tiln Bozic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The fundamental objective of the proposed amendment to the Tax Procedure Act is to promote voluntary and timely compliance with tax obligations. To this end, the possibility of a card payment of tax liabilities to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments is introduced. In order to facilitate the fulfilment of taxpayers' tax obligations, certain prescribed forms shall be abolished. The draft law thus simplifies the process of collecting taxes or fulfilling the tax liability for taxpayers as they will be able to pay taxes and other compulsory taxes with a payment or credit card, without paying the fee for taxpayers. With a view to introducing the possibility of non-cashing taxes and other compulsory charges primarily to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments, of course, the provisions governing the manner and date of the tax also change if the technical options allow it, as well as to other administrative authorities. In this regard, it is also worth stressing that in other locations, I am talking about a legal body, perhaps we can say that the case would be administrative units, such a regime would be highlighted if the taxpayers would also show interest in such payment. The draft law lays down procedural solutions necessary to amend and supplement the system of taxation of income from the labour relationship for workers sent to cross-border work, as set out in the proposal for a new Law on Income. This proposal in the Income Act follows the improvement of the competitive image of the Republic of Slovenia, the preservation and creation of new jobs and the provision of added value in Slovenia with the knowledge that individuals acquire abroad or bring abroad, leading to the creation of better jobs with higher added value. The bill repeals certain prescribed forms, as already mentioned Instead of directly defining the form of such forms, only its content will be determined under the law. This, on the one hand, ensures greater flexibility of the taxpayer and also affects the increase of his legal certainty and, on the other hand, allows greater flexibility in the design of forms for the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law thus repeals those rules in which these forms are prescribed. The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to publish on its websites in order to assist the taxpayers in fulfilling their obligations in forms, and the taxpayers will be able to submit their applications in a second form, as provided for in this form. It is only important that the application contains the content prescribed. As we say, we suggest you support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urska Ban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that again. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 82nd emergency meeting, 2. 11. as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption was addressed. The Committee also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups to three articles on Articles 2, 13 and 21 of the draft law. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented a proposal for a law whose main objective is to promote voluntary and timely compliance with tax obligations. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly presented the written opinion of the Service and said that the comments made by the Service in the written opinion were duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Members and members of the committee on individual articles and amendments to the bill tabled have not debated. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition groups to Articles 2, 13 and 21. The Committee then voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the articles of the draft law and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act introduces the possibility of non-cash or card payment of taxes and other compulsory charges to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. In order to simplify the payment of taxes and other compulsory charges, it will be possible for taxpayers and other debtors to pay fees with a payment or credit card. Payment will be possible during the business time of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments on individual regional units of administration. For the appropriate coverage of the whole country with payment venues, these will be open to today's regional units. Let me list them: Kranj, Koper, Ljubljana, Murska Sobota, Novo mesto, Postojna, Slovenska Bistrica and Žalec. Later on, it is also envisaged as the special paying places of the Administration for Public Payments in Maribor, Novi Gorica and other major cities in the premises of the state administration. The form and content of the tax forms are regulated in individual rules. These provisions dictate the prescribed form of the form, which in some cases is unnecessary and also ineffective, since due to the prescribed form in its minor or formal changes, which, for example, contribute to greater transparency and understanding of the form for easier compliance, it is necessary to amend the sub-legislative act. Changing the Regulation only due to formal changes to the form does not make sense. It is also related to the unnecessary costs of publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Some forms are therefore withdrawn by means of a bill, and the content of the form itself will still be prescribed by means of a sub-legislative act. Optional forms will be published on the website of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. This will provide a mere set of required data and the elements in the guidance on compliance with a standardised form, making it easier for taxpayers to fulfil their obligations. In New Slovenia, of course, we support these changes. However, we wonder why they were not introduced earlier. The whole development of both the private sector and public administrations in the developed world is geared towards digitisation, which brings simpler, more efficient transparent and even faster procedures. In New Slovenia we miss a strategic government approach to these challenges. We fear that we too will be overtaken by competing countries in this area. Unfortunately, in this mandate, the government has not prepared a major reform of tax procedures, despite the fact that the Council of the European Union, in its recommendations for 2016, has found that the Slovenian business environment is negatively affected by the high administrative burden on compliance with tax obligations. Since then, the government has not prepared a modernisation of the tax procedure. Since the bill finally offers the possibility of, among other things, paying fees with a payment card or credit card, we will support the bill proposal in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The basic purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act is to regulate the accounting, assessment, payment, reimbursement, control and enforcement of taxes and the rights and obligations of taxable persons or taxable persons. The Law on the Tax Procedure provides, for example, procedural solutions, necessary amendments and additions to the system of taxation of income from the labour relationship for workers posted to work outside the country, as set out in the proposal for a new Law on Income. It also facilitates the fulfilment of taxpayers' tax obligations in order to abolish certain prescribed forms. In this way, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will allow it to modify and formalize them, while, with the help of the taxpayers, it will continue to publish the forms with the prescribed content on its websites. The proposal for a law repeals those rules in which these forms are prescribed, which will help to ensure transparency as regards the validity of the tax rules and thus legal certainty. We support such administrative burdens on taxpayers in the modern centre Party Group, but the next solution is the cash-free payment of mandatory duties to the administrative body. Thus, the proposal also provides for the possibility of a card payment of taxes and other compulsory charges to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. The proposed method will allow taxpayers in the administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments to pay fees with a payment or credit card without commissions. This will reduce the cost of paying taxes as these fees will be free of commission, and consequently encourage voluntary and timely compliance with tax obligations, as the possibility of paying tax credits to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments is introduced, and payment cards will also allow for the payment of tax liabilities. The establishment of payment venues at the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments will allow for a cheaper method of payment of tax liabilities, as taxpayers will be able to pay the tax without commission fees for the payment made. The target group of taxable persons who will use this option to settle their tax obligations are, in particular, natural persons and natural persons engaged in the activity. Of course, it will be very important for this network to be evenly distributed in Slovenia and accessible to individual debtors. The law also allows editorial corrections in relation to European Union legislation and by reference to them in the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act thus facilitates tax collection procedures or reduces the administrative burden on taxpayers and makes the tax procedure more transparent. As a result of all of this, we will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! The Tax Procedure Act reduces the administrative complexity of taxpayers and raises a number of questions regarding implementation. On the one hand, the question of the so-called card business is that, in other words, taxpayers at the Offices of the Public Revenue Authority should pay certain taxes with a card. This raises the basic question why we should not be able to pay taxes, for example, in cash. After all, this is possible in many countries. Another issue that arises is where public revenue offices are. Here it shows that not all at once, that these devices have a number of problems. And thirdly, why can't they pay taxes at financial offices? After all, there are more financial offices than public revenue offices. Last but not least, I remember a conversation with a Canadian who said 15 years ago that in Canada it is extremely easy to pay taxes, for example, you can pay them in a pub. But with us, unfortunately, it's hard. Now this is supposed to extend to public revenue administrations, but the government in this law does not explain when this will be done, there is no timetable. In short, I'm afraid this thing is still kind of in the air. As a result, of course, there are also a number of uncertainties in this respect and, finally, the question is why we could not pay taxes online. After all, we can all pay taxes through bank accounts at home, why not online. The technology for payment itself has been extremely advanced in this last period or in recent years and decades, and we see that it is still going quite slowly with regard to this modernisation. Although we cannot say, of course, the first step is taken here, but of course it is too weak. However, if we look at the law and at least those mandatory ingredients that must be mentioned in the law, including the international comparison, they are not perfect. If you look at an international comparison, not in any country, these mandatory three states are quoted by this government — Austria, Germany and the Netherlands — it does not, in fact, indicate how taxes are paid. It cites some general floscules from their tax procedures laws, but does not specify how they can actually be paid. Whether they can be paid online, whether a natural person can do it, or a legal person can do it, or another person can do it, say a civil-legal person, and so on and so on. In short, here's the law I'm going to say flawed and under-ambitious. In this regard, it would also apply to the preparation of legislation itself, at least as a reminder to that Government, to specify exactly how it is in Germany, how it is in the Netherlands or how it is in Austria or any other country, if she so said. In any case, it is only intention that we can say that we are in some way supportive. As regards all these uncertainties, we will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Once again a very nice greeting to everyone! With each amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, we are trying to get as close as possible to the objective set by us in the Coalition Treaty in order to raise the level of efficiency of the country in tax collection. In the Desus Group, we estimate that the objective can only be achieved in a way that creates conditions that will help the greater burden of taxpayers or, to the greatest extent, where possible. This is the only way to further motivate taxpayers to act voluntarily and responsibly in paying their obligations. That is why, in the Group of Members, we are in favour of creating such a tax environment, which will act as an incentive and not unnecessarily hinder the country's business development. One way is also presented in today's bill. According to the new report, taxpayers will be able to settle their obligations directly with the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments or in the regional administrative units when it comes to card business. An important positive change is that no commission will be charged for such payments. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposed amendment by making it easier and cheaper to meet the taxpayers' tax obligations. As a result, the efficiency of tax revenue collection is also released. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act provides at least two simpler methods of payment, namely the possibility of settling its tax liability with the tax authority by means of a card payment. So far, it has been possible to settle this tax obligation exclusively with the rate. With the adoption of this law, it will also be possible to pay with a payment card at tax offices, without commission. However, another important change or simplification is the abolition of certain mandatory forms in the forecasting of income. We can also count here that we will get more transparent forms, which, hopefully, will also be easier to meet with all the taxpayers, and thus, of course, bring this tax return closer to the taxpayers. In the hope that this will be the case, of course, we will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading on the amendments to the amended draft law, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made within half an hour following the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. With this, I interrupt the 28th item of the agenda. We're moving to 29. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on tax incursion of accounts, the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Tiln Bozic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u80	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. Dear Members and Members! In May this year an analysis was carried out of the effects of the tax clearance measure in the first year following its introduction, which was on 1 January 2016. This showed that the measure was effective, including in the work where the law allowed the implementation of the procedure for tax clearance of accounts by using the so-called or bound account book. The use of the bound account book is permitted by the applicable law until the end of the transitional period, which is the end of this year. In 2016 and the first half of this year, this system was used by around 22% of all taxpayers for tax clearance of accounts. The proposed law introduces a permanent option of free choice of the debtor with regard to the use of the bound account book after the expiry of the transitional period and removes the obligation to demonstrate the inability to access the internet for the debtor operating in an area where an electronic link cannot be established for the exchange of data with the tax authorities. In addition, the bill extends the time within which the debtor must report the invoices issued from the bound book to the tax authority. In the event of an issue, that period shall be postponed to the tenth day of the month following the month in which such an account was also issued. The purpose of the proposed law is to introduce changes in the system of tax clearance of accounts, which will mean less burden for the debtors than the current regime under which the debtors who use the bound account book to issue and tax the invoices should invest in the purchase of the electronic account issuing machine and, as of 1 January 2018, should also adapt the transaction to the issuance and tax certification of invoices using the electronic device. At the same time, this change in the current system will not affect the possibilities for effective supervision of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia over cash transactions and the correctness of the charging of taxpayers' taxes. In doing so, I would mention the mini cash register prepared by the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, also with a view to a smoother transition to electronics, which is called the immediate fiscalisation of accounts. It is said that those who currently use the bound account book can also use electronic solutions today, using their smartphone, loading an application that is free of charge, including the archive then, we can call it, archiving with the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, we expect that in the coming years, as well as with the increased awareness of the debtors, and also with the promotion of both the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, as many debtors as possible will gradually leave the bound account book and pass through, we can call it, in a modern way, and at the same time they will still probably keep the linked account book because they can still be kept in their processes, possibly due to system upgrades, internet failures and so on, there is a need to temporarily operate in such a way that accounts are issued from the bound account book. I'd like to add one last thing. As you know, the action Take the Account has been very well seized, and for this purpose there is an application that has been uploaded by quite a number of debtors to their mobile phones and checking whether the accounts that have been exhibited are also fiscalized. So far, this period has been 30 days since they were able to verify this, which is now extended to 60 days, which also partially reflects the fact that those who issue accounts via a linked account book can fiscalise these accounts 10 days after the period to which such account relates and not as it was, it is said, as currently, within 10 days of the issue of such an account. In line with this, I propose that Members and Members also support the proposal of the government law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 43rd session. 11. 2017 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax attestation of Accounts, EPA 2236-VII submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government following a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made written comments. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission on the economy, trade, tourism and finance of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. The proposed law has not been amended by qualified investors. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the State Council and the Legal and Legislative Service also attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory addendum, the explanation of the articles was given by the Secretary of State to give a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the law and the proposed solutions. He said that the bill proposed to supplement the bill, which would maintain lower tax burdens and administrative simplifications for taxpayers. He also mentioned the analysis of the effects of the already adopted bill, which was drafted by the Government and also forwarded to the National Assembly in June. In the context of the explanation of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, her representative pointed out that the proposed solutions did not provide for the sanctioning of a taxable person who had decided to issue invoices using bound accounts, but did not issue invoices. The representative of the Council of State presented a written opinion and said that the State Council supported the bill as it simplified procedures and allowed for greater transparency. In the debate, MEPs highlighted the issue of tax evasion, the postponement of the use of the bound account book, by allowing abuse of the costs of individual systems of issuing and certifying accounts, the unfair treatment of taxpayers, and the possible misuse of tax certification programmes. The discussion also drew attention to problems with tax clearance of accounts in practice, with regard to application updates and their compatibility with different internet servers. However, the discussion below also gave a positive assessment of the solutions given, in particular in terms of facilitating the business of smaller operators, in particular with regard to reducing financial burdens and administrative simplifications. It was pointed out that a slightly different arrangement was envisaged for farmers and societies. It was also pointed out that in 2016, more taxes were collected for €81 million in 2015. The debate pointed out that only greater control over taxpayers would not result in less evasion, but that the awareness and conduct of taxpayers also needed to be changed. At the end of the discussion, the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised. After the discussion, the Committee voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As amendments to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy have not been tabled in the draft law, the Council proposes that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on tax clearance of accounts be adopted in the present text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you. In July 2015, we adopted the Law on tax clearance of accounts, the main objective of which was to prevent the grey economy and the availability of undetected cash, which covers undetected purchases, undeclared income of corporate owners and the payment of employment in black. The purpose of the Act was to collect taxes and other taxes from actually created taxation and labour contributions from the actual work of natural persons. The law stipulated that the increase in tax revenues from the clearance measure was between EUR 50 million and EUR 100 million in the year of its introduction. In June 2017, FURS announced that the annual impact of tax warehouses is 81 million. This only shows that the introduction of tax boxes has positive effects on public finances. With the introduction of tax registers, we have achieved the goal of increasing tax collection and reducing the grey economy. With regard to solutions in this law, it must be said that we want to maintain smaller financial burdens and administrative simplifications for taxpayers. This will be ensured by simplifying the implementation of the issuance and tax validation of invoices by using the bound account after the expiry of the transitional period in force up to 31. 12. 2017. The issue of tax-certified cash accounts using the bound account book, which is regulated in amended Article 11, shall be directed primarily to small debtors for whom the purchase of an electronic device for issuing tax-confirmed invoices is a higher financial burden, to debtors who issue less cash accounts in the course of business and to those who operate in areas without access to the world's Internet or issue accounts at different locations within the framework of the field work. The law also allows an extension of the deadline for the communication of data on the accounts issued and the extension of the deadline for the communication of data to the tax authority. By extending the deadline for reporting data to the tax authority, the taxpayers will be able to organise their work and business more efficiently. However, the period during which the holder of the account can verify that it has been confirmed with the tax authority shall be extended. In addition, the amendment of the applicable Act on the tax certification of the accounts to the debtors shall allow the subsequent confirmation of the invoices issued from the tied account to the tax authority by the 10th day of the month following the month in which the invoice was issued. However, for holders of such invoices, the time for on-line verification of whether an individual invoice has been confirmed with the tax authority shall be extended from 30 days to 60 days from the date of issue of the invoice. The Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Accounts, which will allow administrative simplifications for taxpayers, while maintaining the objective already achieved to increase tax collection and reduce the grey economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we have always opposed and will always oppose the introduction of tax registers. This law actually refers to tax warehouses, and this law also introduces tax rebates. On the basis of the Government's response to the Member State's question on the effectiveness of the introduction of tax boxes, the answer, in my opinion, was unclear and was not convincing. The government takes macro-economic indicators into account in the effects of tax registers. In fact, macroeconomic indicators do not give or cannot provide data on whether tax rebates are actually effective, effective and or whether those 80 million higher tax revenues actually result from the introduction of tax rebates or from general macroeconomic indicators. This is also why the Government is not convincing about these changes, and it is not, after all, convincing that it will reduce the administrative complexity of these tax receipts. Finally, it itself states that this deadline for the regulation of accounts is proposed in order for the taxpayer to be able to arrange or verify, within this period, that the invoice was actually incorporated in the financial administration. This is simply from the explanation of this article, which means, in other words, that the system does not seem to be fully operational if the taxable person now has to determine whether it has been misled by the tax administration or not. Finally, the Government did not take into account the proposal made by the Mountain Association of Slovenia on the different registration of accounts on those mountain stands where there is simply no signal. With this, of course, mountaineers and hikers will not be deprived of possible long-term species, and the administration of this government will continue high in the mountains, on the highest mountain stands, somewhere under Triglav. In short, the administration of the Government of Mir Cerar actually knows the borders and, of course, will also be in place in the highest mountain stands. If this is rational, citizens and citizens themselves should be judged. For this reason, the Slovenian Democratic Party will oppose the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thanks again for saying that. And, I hope, last time a nice greeting to everyone. It seems to me that we have been dealing with the subject of tax bills for thousands of years in the National Assembly. In January next year it will be exactly two years since the mandatory use of the tax box is in force. After all the debates in Mrs Desus, we estimate that there should be no one in practice who would question whether this government did just that when it introduced the tax registers. We firmly answer that we did what was right. We have managed to make order in the field of the grey economy, we have established a better system of supervision, and as a result, effective collection of tax obligations has added to the state treasury. However, because it is difficult to convince people only with words and promises, but with concrete facts, we have consistently insisted in the Group of Members that an analysis of the effects of the introduction of tax registers should be carried out. The analysis added to everything we've advocated since the very beginning. The tax remittances have successfully justified their purpose and brought an additional €81 million into the state budget, which is more than the estimates of those days. They also managed to reduce the share of the grey economy and, as a result, budget revenues from social contributions increased by €21 million last year. With the proposed amendment, we will continue to pursue the objective we have set ourselves. The novelty brings nothing new, nor will it have an impact on the budget. Only a transitional period for the use of the bound account book will be a permanent measure, which will continue to facilitate the operation of 22% of all the debtors. The latter can rest, as they will not need to buy computer equipment. All other pledges will also be burdened, as the novel brings more reasonable deadlines for the validation of accounts and online verification. Nor will there be a need for the endorsement by the AKOS. In the Desus Group we welcome all the above administrative and financial benefits for the debtors. We have long been advocates of a friendly tax environment that will promote and not hinder business projects, so we have also been instigated by different arrangements for small taxpayers and, thanks to us, the Rules on the Implementation of the VAT Law have been amended, in which there are additional conditions for certain exemptions, including for pension societies. Members and Members of the Desus Group will not, of course, object to the proposed novels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone. The law on tax clearance of accounts hardly knows the exceptions when it comes to recording traffic arising from cash payments. Exceptions were introduced only for sales machines and for entities with controlled traffic and mass issuance of public service accounts, i.e. utilities and public companies, and for those small economic operators operating in areas where the use of the data link is not possible. A temporary solution was envisaged for such cases when the law was adopted, namely the use of the bound account book and the regular reporting of transport entities recorded in the bound account book. Despite all the high technological advances that we have recorded in the last period, it is clear, however, that the spread of wireless data links is not possible everywhere, and this transitional period was therefore meaningful. By this law, in fact, the transitional period, which expires on 31 December 2017, opens up the possibility for the debtors to carry out the procedure for tax clearance of accounts on a permanent basis. The debtor is allowed to decide, under the circumstances, how to carry out the process of tax clearance in cash transactions by using an electronic account issuing device or a linked account book. It shall also extend the time limit for the communication of the accounts issued from the bound account to the confirmation of the tax authority from the existing 10 working days to the latest 10 days of the month following the month in which the invoice was issued. It shall also extend from 30 days to 60 days the time available to the holder of the accounts to verify that the account is confirmed with the tax authority. It is therefore a matter of extending all these benefits to the very strict undertaking in force in this law. It is precisely because this has proved to be in practice very welcome for the debtors that we will support this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The existing law on tax clearance of accounts lays down a time limit to which the debtors may choose to use a tied account book that simplifies the implementation of the issuance and tax confirmation of invoices. This is no longer possible after the expiry of the transitional period applicable until 31 December of this year under the existing law. The proposed novel permanently removes this time limit for the use of the bound account book. The debtor will be able to choose an electronic device or a bound account book. In addition, by amending the applicable law, the debtors shall be granted subsequent confirmation of the invoices issued in the bound account with the tax authority by 10 days of the month following the month in which the invoice was issued. However, for holders of such invoices, the time for on-line verification of whether an individual invoice has been confirmed with the tax authority shall be extended from 30 days to 60 days from the date of issue of the invoice. In Novi Slovenija, we strongly opposed the proposal for a law on tax confirmation of accounts which introduced the tax registers from the first day of the idea of tax registers. Instead of dealing with how to stimulate an entrepreneurial initiative, we are always talking about how the state will better fill the state budget, regardless of the price. At the level of tax rates, it is only important for the Government how much these rates will provide for the budgetary inflow. The question of how this will affect entrepreneurship is irrelevant to this government. The same is true of tax collectors. Here is not the main question of how we will create an environment that will give as many new entrepreneurship stories as possible about success, but only how the country will fill its budget as much as possible. On the other hand, we need to adopt specific laws for specific investments. In addition, the tax returns also proved to be ineffective. The first published data on tax inflows for 2016 show that last year’s value-added tax inflows amounted to EUR 3 000 273 million and, in spite of the high economic growth of all, it is clear that 44.5 million was higher than in 2015. However, the price of this modest purchase is a burdened business throughout the country. In addition, I would like to remind you that the Minister of Finance also acknowledged that the value added tax expected a greater impact of the tax registers. Because of the non-lifely implementation of tax penalties, entrepreneurs who, for example, give a product at a fair to a visitor or, for example, to a guest whose account guests do not keep a street or two away from the inn. Entrepreneurs who work hard to earn their profits are thus completely lifelessly punished with high fines, amounting to thousands of euros. This in our country, in addition to the tax burden on work, greatly reduces motivation for work. The government has told us that it is instituting tax receipts to limit the grey economy. To date, no analysis of how much this grey economy has been reduced. Since in New Slovenia we oppose the concept of tax receipts, we will not support the proposal of the amendment of the Law on Tax Certification of Accounts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour, as part of the vote. I hereby end the 29th item of the agenda and also the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-28-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u94	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 26, 27, 28, 29 and 42 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income by Emergency Procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 48 votes against and 3 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 5. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against and 44 votes against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There were 63 Members and Members present and 53 votes against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. We are moving on to the conclusion of the legislative procedure for a draft law that was not the basis for the drafting of an amended proposal for a law. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Joseph Horvat, is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against and 11 votes against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons by Emergency Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 15 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 28th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act as a matter of urgency. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and 55 Members present, and one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax attestation of Accounts by Short Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is the decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 12. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 42. At the time of the day, this is at the confirmation of the official clearance of the text of the law on the protection of human rights and the correction of the official imprecise text of the law on road traffic laws. Officially consolidated texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Law on the Ombudsman.” We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 62 votes in favour, none against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “A correction of the Officially Cleared Text of the Road Traffic Rules Act is confirmed.” We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, and they all voted in favour. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has confirmed the correction of the official purified text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 35th meeting of the National Assembly.
