ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs Eva Irgl, mag. Bojana Muršič by 2 p.m., Mr. Andrej Chus, Mr. Matjaž German, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Franz Breznik, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Jani Möderndorfer by 13:30 and Mr Marjan Dolinšek. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 30 June 2017, with a reference to the meeting. Procedurally, at this point? Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u2	Your Honor! Sometimes things change so quickly that the National Assembly has to react very quickly. Yesterday it is Austrian, says Kronen Zeitung reported, but today this is summed up by virtually all media in Austria and also by some in Slovenia that the Austrian Defence Minister announced the near introduction of control, including by the military, at the border with Italy. At the same time, it must be said that the migratory wave has grown so strong that in recent days the flow to Italy exceeds what was once common through the Mediterranean and beyond the Balkan route at the same time and reaches thousands of people per day. They don’t even record or list any more arrivals, so it’s actually even bigger. This is also the reason why Austria is still in control against Slovenia. And of course it is clear where our weak spot is – at the border with Italy. We have therefore prepared, as soon as we have heard the proposal for recommendations, that the National Assembly should therefore make a recommendation to the Government to prepare everything necessary for the enforcement of border control with Italy and, of course, to prevent a large increase in the number of illegal migrants, which could become an extremely serious security and economic problem for Slovenia if this happens. We have tabled this recommendation some time ago, but until this point it is only recorded, so that we were not even able to formally propose an extension of the agenda. I would therefore like to ask why such slowness in a matter which may have a relatively severe impact and in which the National Assembly could react very quickly, given that an extraordinary meeting has already been convened today, and it would be only for the enlargement of the agenda, but we cannot even propose an extension of the agenda for the procedural reasons for this enlargement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u3	According to known information, this matter does not meet any business conditions so that it cannot be discussed at this point. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 66 for whom there was a vote and no one opposed. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 45th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is in line with the request for a legal referendum on the law on construction, management and management of the second indent of the railway line of the savage-copier. On 27 June 2017, Mr Vili Kovacič submitted a written request for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway. With regard to this request, we will consider the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on that law, which has been drawn up and submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 58th emergency meeting, on 30 June. 6. 2017 has addressed the requirement of more than 40,000 voters and electorates to call for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway. On the 27th. 6. In 2017, at least 40,000 voters and voters submitted a request for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway, adopted by the National Assembly on 8 May 2017, pursuant to Article 12 of the Law on the Referendum and on the Human Initiative. Article 22 of the Act provides that the National Assembly shall call for a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request for a referendum. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 30 of the Act, the Act on the Call for Referendum sets out the type of referendum, the act to be decided at the referendum, the text of the question to be raised at the referendum, the date of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 33 of the Act, from the date of the call for a referendum to the date of the vote, it shall not be less than 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, until which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the National Assembly may, by a simple majority, determine for the day of the vote at least 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the invitation to tender. The second paragraph of Article 33 of the Law expressly provides that the period referred to in the preceding paragraph — that is, the period fixed from the date of the referendum to the date of the vote — shall not run or rest within the time limit laid down in Article 16(a) of the Law. The first paragraph of Article 16a of the Act, however, governs the procedure of the President of the National Assembly with regard to the initiative of the electorate to apply for a referendum, setting out, inter alia, the period and conditions under which, or under which, the calendar period for collecting signatures in support of the initiative cannot be fixed. It is between 15 July and 31 August and 25 December and 2 January. Taking into account the above mentioned case, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space for the Day of the Referendum proposes Thursday, 6. Seven. 2017, for the voting day on Sunday, 24. 9. 2017. It shall take into account the time-limit set out in Article 33(2) of the Law, and shall therefore, after this proposal, take place from the date of the referendum until the date of the vote, 32 days before the date of the vote, and the vote shall therefore be carried out on the 33rd day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u5	To present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Infrastructure Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members and Members! In opening, I would like to point out that both the Government and the Ministry of Infrastructure respect the will of the citizens who have submitted a proposal for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the second track of the Divača-Koper Railway. However, we want the referendum to be carried out as soon as possible and all the powers will be directed towards the implementation of a project of strategic importance for Slovenia. The second track is an economic project that produces multiplier effects. The second track has a clear financial structure, defined financial resources and estimated investment value. This is a little less than a billion euros. The financial structure and the estimated value were verified in intensive cooperation with both the European Commission and the European Investment Bank, as well as with the other countries that supported us in this regard. The second track is an international cross-border project. Hungary is ready to invest up to €200 million in the second track project. For the second railway line between Divaca and Kopro, all consent has been obtained and we have a building permit, which means that the project is technically ready to start construction. The second track is a project where we listened to the towns of Črnog Kal, the Council for Civil Control of the second track project, the municipal council of the Municipality of Koper, the Union of Retired Associations, Slovenian Railways and also Luka Koper. And what's important is a new railway connection between Divesa and Kopro will be a two-tier railway connection. Let me also remind you that on Friday 23 June we received good news from Brussels on the results of the call for cohesion funds CEF 2016. We can really be happy that 11 Slovenian projects have been successful on the invitation to tender. These projects will receive 63 million European grants. Of this, the European Commission has approved as much as EUR 44.3 million for preparatory work to carry out the second track between Koper and the Fan. Not only have we managed to obtain EUR 33 and a half million, as the rest of the available funds from the envelope available or belonging to the Republic of Slovenia, but we have managed to obtain an additional EUR 10.8 million from the rest of the envelopes of other cohesion countries. This is a clear message from Europe that the project is well prepared and also that the project is important for Europe. Therefore, we continue to carry out activities for the implementation of the second track, which, once again, have all the consents, the building permit, the clear financial structure and defined financial resources, and which will be the first such major infrastructure project in Slovenia after many years, as well as such an important project for our economic and transport development. We will therefore continue all activities to obtain the necessary resources for the construction, as well as activities to carry out the preparatory work. As early as July, we will apply to the so-called CEF blending call for European funds. We are counting on €80 to 100 million of European grants to build a second track. It is important for the invitation to tender that we also have a letter of support from the behind countries and the European Investment Bank, in addition to the clear financial structure and defined funding sources. The tender will be run by 2TKK and will involve the Ministry in the preparation of the application professionally and human resources. We are also preparing intensive tender documentation for the selection of the preparer. We intend to publish the call in August, so that we can start the works in November. Since we have also foreseen a loan from the European Investment Bank in the financial design of the project, we are also preparing the documentation required by the Bank for a careful financial review of the project before it approves the loan. Your Honor, I've had a number of concerns and questions ahead of us in my life, but it's most pointless for us to stay put and do nothing. These concerns and risks must be tackled and managed. That's the way it is with the second track. At this point, it would be more than pointless if we did not continue with such a prepared and important project. We believe that Slovenia needs a second track and that the project is good. We therefore support the proposal to hold a legislative referendum on 24 September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u7	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear ministers, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome to all! In the Desus Group, we support the proposal for a decree stipulating that the date of the implementation of the referendum on the Law on Construction, Management and Management will be the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line on 24 September. We believe that it is important for the referendum to be carried out as soon as possible, due to the smooth continuation of the project of the second track of Divač-Koper. The referenda object to this date and want the referendum to be held on the day of the presidential elections, if it is the most prudent and rational solution. In the Desus Group, we find it difficult to believe such statements, because it is only the fact that the applicants have requested a referendum at all, that they have consciously decided to cause additional costs to the country. The referendum is not free. This is probably well known by the applicants who promote themselves as extremely responsible for the care of taxpayers' money, while themselves knowingly causing costs by requiring a referendum and delaying the implementation of the second track project, which will certainly require additional money for which the applicants are to be so worried. During the course of the meeting of the parent working body, when presenting the various dates on which the referendum was to be held together with the presidential elections, we asked whether the applicants knew something that no one yet knows exactly – that is the date of the presidential elections. We've heard quite a few choices. One of the proposals was even without a date, however. The exact date of the election of the President of the Republic is not yet known, so, according to our assessment, we cannot pool the two votes. Applicants argue that a large number of people oppose the implementation of the second track project in the manner proposed by the Government. Therefore, in our view, voting on different dates will be an indicator of support for the ideas of the civil initiative. The support will be reflected both in the electoral participation and in the results of the vote. We wonder whether it requires the candidates to hold a referendum on the day of the presidential elections, but it does not doubt the sufficient participation of voters and the electoral outcome of the referendum. The latest opinion polls show that citizens are not interested in participating in the referendum, so we believe that the applicants can rightly be concerned about electoral participation in the referendum. In the Desus Group, we stress the need to respect the will of the citizens who have made a proposal for a referendum, so we support the idea that this should be done as soon as possible. According to our assessment, the proposed date of 24 September is an appropriate date, so, as I mentioned at the outset in the presentation of the Group's position, we will support the proposal for a decree in the form prepared by the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u9	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Although rarely, there is also a consensus in Slovenian policy, and this is at the point that the second track is of strategic importance and that we need it. More often, though, there is a question of agreement as to how and how we can reach it. At some point, although we may question the sincerity of the intentions of the referendum candidate, we have obtained at the table a sufficient number of signatures from citizens and citizens who want to decide at the referendum whether the current way is by means of the law in force, even the most appropriate. And given the fact that there is a common agreement that we need a second track, it is probably the most rational and also most appropriate to allow voters and voters the opportunity to express themselves as soon as possible on the current route that we can get to the implementation of this project. That is why, of course, the Social Democrats will support the fastest and most optimal opportunity for voting and decision to take place as soon as possible. Not because any of the other dates could be less or more appropriate, but especially because those with the minister at the head of the project who must lead the project must know whether they need backup scenarios or whether they can continue on a path which, as has been heard from the introduction of the Minister, has produced results and is reliable, at least from the point of view of the European Commission, one of the right paths. Of course, any opposition, stumbling and extension of this process is unnecessary. We can see that the law is not appropriate in the opinion of voters and voters, we can look for alternative ways, but if we agree on the point that the second track is necessary, necessary, strategic, then we must make this decision as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u11	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u12	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! In Levica, we are already working practically to build this second track as cheaply as possible and of course to remain in public hands. That is why, last year at this time, we also filed an interpellation against Minister Gasperšić. At least we have achieved that the Government then withdrew from this requirement for foreign private capital, but after the interpretation the coalition did not fulfil the promise that the state-owned companies of the Slovenian Railway and Luka Koper would participate as partners. Although the coalition has replaced foreign private capital with foreign state capital, the problem has remained the same. The government law transfers the costs of the second track to the Slovenian budget, to our state-owned companies, and Hungary, on the other hand, leaves those activities that bring high returns. That is why we support the call for this referendum in Levika. The mandate of the Cerara government will be terminated in one year's time, and if the Cerar-Orbán project, if so called, we stop it, the next government can start building a second track in less than one year in such a way that it will be cheaper and at which Slovenia will not only have costs, but probably also any benefit from such a large investment. The proposed decision will thus set the date of the referendum as well as the referendum on which citizens will decide. In the Left Group, we disagree with the date proposed by the President of the National Assembly. We have already proposed on the committee that the referendum should be carried out with the presidential elections, and thus, of course, we have saved around €3 million of public funds, of course, and without jeopardising any democratic referendum. We are listening, and we have also heard today that the referendum is costing us, which, of course, we agree with, so this move would be most rational. Let me mention at the edge that it is also costing a referendum campaign, which has apparently already begun for the government. Let me remind you of the EUR 17,000 from the European cohesion funds dedicated to the rehabilitation of the narrow throat in Bivja near Koper, i.e. the existing route between Divaca and Koper, which went to a campaign called Everything you need to know about the second track, so it is a broad promotion of the government project on online networks and other platforms. Well, money is obviously important and it's already on the referendum issue. Citizens, of course, are also certainly already asking why the government is still saving in all areas, and literally it does not want to save these 3 million euros. Unfortunately, the answer is simple. Since the first performance of Minister Gasperšič, who said we do not need a second track, it is clear that something is very wrong with this government project. In the way proposed by the Government, the second track cannot be built or, if so, we will end up paying for it more than we will gain with it. Of course, it is clear to the Coalition that her marriage would fall under normal circumstances at the referendum. Since she does not have a credible project to convince citizens, she will, of course, now strive to see the law fall for a simple reason, and this is a lack of participation in the vote. However, I think that citizens are not or will not be carefree enough to fall for such a political trick. As we say, today we also confirm only the referendum question. Yesterday, Officer Delo published a survey, after which 63% of the citizens were not familiar with the second track law so that they could decide on it at all during the referendum. The result of the survey is not even surprising in reality. Citizens do not get the right information. The government still does not know how to answer the basic questions, which means what route it will build and what it has promised Hungary. On the other hand, the right opposition of the rider to the irreconcilability of the government project does not indicate what an alternative it could be. In the last two weeks, we have had a series of meetings, and the public still has not found out what they are specifically advocating. I can't even say whether it's a commitment to a public-private partnership or some other kind of privatisation that I've attended most of these meetings. But I know something; the SDS second track uses it for a pre-election campaign, like the Magne Steyr case. When, for example, we interviewed Minister Gasperšić in Levica in September, the SDS abstained. When the members of the Left voted against the Magna Steyr Act in December, the SDS enthusiastically supported it. Now the SDS is one of the biggest critics of both Magne Steyr and the government's second track project. Therefore, citizens are bombarding both sides with propaganda, so it is only right that I briefly state the problem of this government law. Firstly, the Government would have left the second track for 45 years to co-ownership of a foreign country, specifically Hungary, we have heard this again today. Of course, no normal country allows such a thing. Only colonies or vassal states are subject to such conditions. Secondly, government law does not allow democratic control. Again, contrary to what Minister Gasperšič claims. The project-financial council will appoint a minister on its own and, since there is no external control, it is highly likely that this billion-dollar project will continue to irritate during construction. Thirdly, Hungary, clearly, is not a charity. Hungary is not offering capital to help us, but to earn on our behalf. The law imposes on Slovenia to provide more than €30 million each year from the budget and with new contributions from Darsa and Luka Koper. Hungary will therefore not have to provide a single cent. The referendum question should therefore be very simple: Are you in favour of an investment in which Slovenia contributes all the money for the repayment of credits and Hungary nothing and profits are split in half? I am convinced that, with such a referendum question, citizens would strongly vote against the vast majority. So if I briefly sum up our position. The law is harmful and, in fact, it is better to close the project by a referendum for one year rather than to build a second track so that Hungary will earn 50% of the profits and Slovenia will pay 100 % of the subsidy for the operation of the track and the repayment of the loan. On the other hand, that the referendum should be called together with the presidential elections, which would save €3 million of public funds without affecting democratic decision-making in any way. We cannot guarantee this decision in Levica due to the said confirmation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u13	We continue to consider the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. This Decision is proposed by the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u14	Dear President, Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group we support the construction of a second track. Not just one, two, at the same time. However, we do not support this law, which is also rejected by 48 000 and several voters. We support the construction of the second track as soon as possible without foreign investors and a different variant than the one the Government now wants to legislate or legalize and also legalize the costs of this project. We have, or have, talked about the Government revealing this project as soon as possible, and it has been said by the Minister that when the project is audited by international institutions, they will present it. This project, which was discussed years ago, was worth 600 million in 2010. And in 2015, it grew to a billion. And now it's supposed to be over a billion. It is an old project, it is a variant, more than 20 years old, with the possibility of connecting Italian parties as well. Since Italy subsequently withdrew from this project, the State of Slovenia should also renovate this project and seek the most cost-effective and advantageous option. We've heard evidence of new variants all of a sudden. As long as the project was worth 600 million and the project variant was unknown to us, of course there was no need for an alternative. However, when the project was presented, valued, revised with many shortcomings, of course, there was an immediate opinion that this connection could be built more optimally, cheaper and faster. There were two variants. In my view, both options are much better and faster built and cheaper than the existing option, which the Government has enacted, or position. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this law should be repealed, that new options should also be found if they turn out to be better. So far, the government has not presented a profession that could challenge these two options; it has not yet reached an assessment, but is stubbornly insisting on a variant of one track, building one track per billion, one billion or more, and then building another track, which is supposed to cost at least half a billion. And the joint construction of this second track, or two tracks, will take at least 15 years. We know that Italy and Austria are building a connection through Slovenia and will be built in 2024. This half-track or half-needed railway connection is two or three years later, if we insist on this project. There's a lot of strangers here. Once again, I stress that we do not oppose the construction of a second track in our parliamentary group. Moreover, we are aware that it is very important for the development of the economy in Slovenia, in the meantime a few more logistics centres should be built to make use of this traffic for themselves in order to add some added value to this traffic, which will run through Slovenia, in order to capture some of the multiple effects of this, but not that this traffic will only be a burden to us, because we know that the use of the railway track cannot recover costs because there are limits. All the benefits we get for all Slovenian railways are about €8 million per year. This is not the same as the tolls on the highway for which Dars cashes around 350 million euros annually, and this is more than half of freight transport, of which, of course, is about 80% of foreign traffic on our roads. We are of the opinion that this law must be rejected and that this referendum must be carried out together with the presidential elections. When it has been said by the Government that it is necessary to adopt this law as soon as possible, that if it is not adopted, we will not be able to apply for European funding; although the invitation to tender will have to be signed up in July and the referendum will be held on 24 September. [[…]] It's okay. All the time we claim that this law does not prevent the government from building a second track to continue to do so. But the problem will be if this is rejected at the referendum. And yet the second track will not be rejected, only the law will be rejected, nothing else will be rejected. However, we caution, let us overlook, let us look at the other two options from a professional point of view. This can be done within a few months and I am sure that we will get much cheaper and much faster both tracks and without interfering with the frozen countries because we do not need it. But somehow it persists; I do not know how we must insist on a project that is 20 years old and that we must continue to do so, but we are not looking at anything left or right. Technology has moved on. Foreigners are doing much better projects, more recent. With us, however, we insist on Serpentines, at a radius of 600 meters, because we all know or know that with 600 radios — or if there is a second track, it will be even less, if there is this track, it will be 550 meters — no speed is more than 60 kilometers per hour. What, though, are the maintenance costs for such rail loads? That's what the profession says. But no, we insist on this project and then involve strangers as if we cannot build it ourselves. That is why we are in the New Slovenia Group to hold the referendum together with the presidential elections. In Switzerland they have an annual referendum day, and then they perform all the referendums that are to be collected, and they have a huge number of them, and we cannot bring together two referendums, which are only 14 days, three weeks apart. The costs, as stated by the Director of the National Election Commission, are higher if we go to two referendums if two votes are to be voted – about 2 million 800 thousand, if we do not take into account that voters have to vote twice. Doesn't that mean anything to us? We can walk them, I don't know. Who's going to calculate that? Doesn't it cost people to go to the polls twice? It doesn't matter to us. It is important that a goal is pursued if it is still so pointless. I therefore hope that during this time, even before the referendum and then some common sense will prevail in order to consider these projects. At the referendum, with the decision of the citizens themselves – regardless of whether we do not reach that quorum – I think the result will also say much about the work of this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u16	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We certainly need a railway connection between the Giants and Kopro. But we need more. If we look at the situation on Slovenian roads, we see that it is necessary to rebuild the entire railway infrastructure, but we have a problem with such a short and small section. What don't we need? We don't need a 2DKK company. The money we have received so far is only about the operation of this company. We don't need the law. We talked about this in this National Assembly. It's figuratively built with a thief and a shovel, not a marriage. Of course, the law that was proposed is totally unnecessary and bears responsibility from those who should build to the National Assembly. After being investigated as TES 6, who will be responsible? The one who confirmed the law. What don't we need? We don't need a foreign partner. It's like we don't know how to do this on our own. Why a foreign partner? So it'll be less control and it'll be easier to hide funds. Then where are the strategic interests of Slovenia? To be subject to some foreign strategic interests, however, we have seen what demands foreigners are already making for us. What do we need? We need a clear project and a clear financial framework to run for funds. Unfortunately, we don't have that. There's more than one story intertwining. One is technical where this link will take place and how many tracks. Second, how this relates to the privatisation of the infrastructure of Luka Koper, such as the strategic interests of Slovenia, abroad, Italy, Austria, Hungary. And, of course, the elements of systemic corruption that many institutions have pointed to, including the Commission to prevent corruption and others. But if I take a look at the performance of the referendum. Why the referendum? Because the government has not taken into account the profession or NGOs or some institutions and this is the last emergency exit that people have used. And the will of the people must be respected. The solution would certainly be systemic to have an electoral weekend or an electoral day, where we could combine people's will both in terms of elections, on national and local referendums. This could save a lot of money for other projects. What can I say to conclude? That the Government uses the asymmetricity of information to conceal financial flows and its objectives. What we do know about the second track, but it's just a direction, it's just a direction we're familiar with. Therefore, such a law as has been proposed is not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u17	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u18	Madam President, once again, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! The project to build a second rail track between Divaca and Kopro has become a constant in discussions and decisions at the meetings of the National Assembly. After a number of urgent and extraordinary meetings, and not least after the interpretation of the Minister of Infrastructure, which was reported to be stalling with the second track, at least somehow the single opinion that we need the second track prevailed in words. This is what all parties claim, and perhaps everyone else does. In this mandate, the government has accelerated activities relating to the implementation of the project. A building permit has been issued, we have adopted a law to be the subject of a referendum and allowing for the construction of a two-tier track in line with the recommendations of the professional public – that is to say that the second track will be two-tier – and that civil surveillance will be possible. Through all these facts, we can find that after more than a decade of different studies, we have finally established the conditions when this strategically important and construction-intensive project can also be built. In doing so, it should be stressed that the construction project of the second track is not a project of one government, not a project of the government of Mira Cerar, but a project of several governments. However, this government, as has already been stated or said, only continues where it has been standing for some time. So, from there on out. The aim is, therefore, to get this project into some way, to get it out of the drawers and, on the basis of all the studies, also with regard to the variants of the route, however, certain construction works begin and to link Slovenia's logistics to the Adriatic Sea for the benefit of the Slovenian economy, and to enable all the last countries wishing to cooperate economically with Slovenia to do so. Given that this project carries a certain political weight, a certain political connotation is also due to a part of the public policy, more and more misleading information is emerging on the very content of the law that is the subject of this referendum, so I will repeat a certain content from which we can conclude that it is only a content that is in the best interests of the transparency of the project itself and for the benefit of not least all taxpayers. The law lays down the conditions and modalities for the implementation of the second track, the management and management of the second track as a public railway infrastructure, the role of the specially established company 2TKK; here again, the case of the establishment of this company is not something special. If you want, we can compare this company and its purpose with the establishment of Dars, which operates highways. Although the comparison may not be entirely correct, it is entirely possible to draw parallels with the company established to build motorways. The law provides that the founder and only member of this company is the Republic of Slovenia. In the statements made by some politicians, it may be heard that this law and this company make it possible to privatise another track, which is not true and it is not true that a possible backstopping country that will enter or acquire a business share in this company would become the owner of another track. It is therefore possible that, under the conditions laid down in the Interstate Agreement, the interest-bearing State may also acquire a share. However, I must stress here that this is an interstate agreement ratified by this National Assembly. Therefore, these speculations about what is being given to someone or by what or how Slovenia commits itself to potential partners are misleading, as we will discuss this when we have this interstate agreement on our tables, let's say that with Hungary or perhaps with any other of the behind countries. The law is also accompanied by policy evidence of an increase in the risk of corruption. With regard to the warnings we have received from the Commission to prevent corruption, I must say that these warnings have been very much taken into account in the content of the law itself, which is why, in fact, all these risks or concerns that have been raised have been eliminated. Among other things, the law provides in its provisions for this dedicated company which will deal with the construction and management of the second track. As regards the business of this company, as well as the conditions to be met by the administrations and the supervisory councils in these companies, that is to say, conditions in the sense of reducing any risk of corruption or other concerns, such as the incompatibilities of the performance of the function, the prohibition of membership, the restriction of acceptance of gifts and so on, in short, everything is within the meaning of the recommendations addressed to the risk of corruption. It is also laid down that the company must not have business shares owned by natural persons or private legal persons in order for the company to be a contracting entity after public procurement, i.e. under public procurement legislation. The Act also specifically sets out the role of the Court of Auditors, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, further ensures that the project, unlike practices in the past, will be financed and implemented in accordance with the principles of good governance. Our firm belief is that, of course, it is possible to build such projects without laws, but let us remember how they were built in the past. And if it is difficult for anyone, as a politician, to take part in the responsibility of a transparent implementation of such a project as a Member by adopting the law, then this is his decision. We estimate that even by bringing the law or bringing it into the National Assembly, the State-Court procedure has actually begun to talk about this project so that it has become transparent and transparent to all interested parties, even after all or first to taxpayers. In a policy that contradicts its reasons, which are not even so unknown in fact – it is only a political prestige that opposes this law – it is also apparent from this policy that the law provides for a single route to determine the price of this project. Of course that's not true. It's a perfect invention. As a group of Members to anyone interested in the content of this law, we appeal that he may look at it, including on the websites of the National Assembly, where he will see that this price is not actually determined by law, that the adoption and enforcement of the law does not mean that the second track will be built at that or that price. As far as the second track is concerned, which the initiators consider to be the most problematic, we want to point out something. First, that the second track has been set after several years of studies in 2005, and most absurdly, that those who have set it up, that is, in the first government, today support the referendum, support the initiator, who says it is a problem route of the second track. Of course, it is possible to bring technical solutions to the construction of the second track into the discussion, but we estimate that these studies have been achieved to this extent and that the structure of the territory between Kopro and the Fan has not changed so far, which is why we are also assessing and joining the Government's view that the search for new sites – even in the sense of some interested individuals who want to implement some of their solutions, not for free – will lead to this second track moving far into the future. And here again, as far as the second track is concerned, we had an interpellation against Minister Peter Gasperšič when he was informed that he was delaying the project. If it's actually a problem route, then we have to ask ourselves why it's problematic. Of course, those who raise this question should ask themselves this question and what they have done not to be such. All we can see is that this vocabulary and the exposure of these problems are part of some political argument, as has already been said, which is intended only to challenge the project and that it is actually a political story that has only a political battle against the current government. The problem is also that, according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the motioner does not propose an alternative option for the construction of a second track. We have heard in the discussions of the competent or parental working body that we have several interested individuals who oppose this law. We have the Duhovnik version, and we have the Jazbinski variant, and we have the last variant of Professor Damian, who touches the payment method – somehow in the direction of Luke Koper, who opposes the law only because he introduces a special transfer fee. In short, the opposition to this law is not uniform in its views; it is united only in challenging the law and, on the other hand, neither to citizens nor to the economy offers any alternative. If it is so true that we are united in the need to build this second track, then it is least to be expected, at least of all political actors that mean something in this country, it is also from the opposition or from individual parts of the opposition, to present to us, what is their vision of the development of transport, rail transport and, above all, what is the vision of the development of traffic between Divisco and Kopro, which has been exposed so many times, that it is very problematic and does not meet some Western European and modern standards. However, there is also an opportunity or it is certain that this will reject both economic development and logistics in the long term. We will, of course, support the proposal for a resolution on the invitation to a legislative referendum, as prepared by the mother's working body. We believe that today's meeting will be largely misleading in view of the fact that some wish to hold a referendum in a cheaper way, but we must point out here that, in terms of today's decision, we cannot decide that the referendum, together with the presidential elections, should be held because of this date, that is, the date of the presidential elections, we do not have. As far as the possibility or alternatives to the referendum or the date of the referendum are concerned, we join the Government's opinion that, in view of all the debates and the facts that have been raised in the past, this referendum should be carried out as soon as possible. Last but not least, we are deciding on a law which, following a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly, has been adopted into an urgent procedure, i.e. as an emergency law, and it would be at least unrealistic if decisions on such a law were made indefinitely or to extreme legal options, including those which are decided by a two-thirds majority. We have no doubt, however, that this two-thirds majority in this House could not have been achieved, because if we cannot unify ourselves on a basic project such as the second track project, then we cannot expect to be able to simplify ourselves more about the date. We will therefore support the proposal or decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum in the Group of Members. However, we want Slovenia, which will be comparable to European countries, where modern trains can be used, not some Slovenia, which will be lagging behind in some development, both rail and others. As a result, we estimate that it is better for Slovenia, its taxpayers, the economy and logistics to put this law into effect in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u19	Mr Ljubo Žnidar, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u20	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! For the first time in the National Assembly, Members are being addressed on a long and wide-ranging, highly professional topic, such as the second-track project. Finally, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will deal with an extremely professional topic. That's never happened before. This is a very clear indicator that policy has taken the second track project into its own hands instead of leaving it to the profession. It shows something's wrong here. Both the opposition parties and the profession warn that such management of the project is unacceptable, especially in the case of the fact that it is a complete financial ignorance of the value of the second track project. Let me go in the order of this strange story. The government first set up a company called 2TKK and placed EUR 200 million in its account. Today, this company has two employees. It is very unusual, since we have not set up new companies in Slovenia for any project so far. If we had followed this pattern in the past, if we had established a society for every 20, 27 kilometers, we would now have about 60 established companies. And if we were to adopt a law for any such project, we'd have 60 laws on the table today. All I'm talking about is the rail network, which is a thousand miles in Slovenia. More demanding projects were also built on the road network, such as the construction of a second track on the Divač-Koper section. It would be perfectly normal to understand that a project to build a second track would lead either the Slovenian Railway or the State DRI. So the establishment of a special society is absolutely unnecessary. Furthermore, the summit added to the adoption of the law on the construction and management of the investment of the second track. The law defines the concessionaire for a period of 45 years without any risks to the concessionaire, since all the risks in the final phase are taken over by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. All the risks. It is particularly interesting, however, to determine the value of the project, since it is the law itself – with the payment of the so-called availability for a period of 45 years, as long as the concession period from the completion of the project lasts, that is from 2025 onwards. The explanation of the law makes it very clear that this value will be 30 to 40 million a year. If we play a little bit of math, then this value is determined by a law ranging from a billion 350 million to a billion 800. Range, delta difference is 450 million. This is said to be completely illogical, it is unreasonable that the value of the project is determined by law rather than by technical documentation. The very process of enacting the law, which was following an extremely urgent rapid procedure, was unusual and in some ways suspicious. In the past, values have always been determined on the basis of technical documentation, so-called PSI projects – implementation projects – which contain the descriptions of works and are able to calculate the investment value very accurately. That's very specific. Thus, we have witnessed an intentional hurry in the adoption of the law, rather than waiting a few months to complete the technical documentation of the PZI. This is an indication that it was clearly intentional to avoid waiting for the PZI project. There have been many further excuses for urgency in applying for European calls. How many applications have there been for European calls so far? It is true that we have received some funds for the preparatory work. This is essential to be separated, because for a serious application to the European call for proposals it is necessary to have an investment programme, it is necessary to have a closed financial structure. Due to the constructive comments of the opposition parties and the comments of the profession, the Government is quite confused and it is very interesting to look at the interpretations concerning the value of the second track project, and I will count them, and you can also check them on all the magnetograms that have been made so far. The Prime Minister states that the value is 27 million per kilometre. If we recalculate it, it's 720 million. The Minister recently stated that the value is 960 million plus the cost of financing. He also confirmed today that the value is somewhat less than a billion in his opening statement. A colleague of the largest government coalition party, Mrs Vojka Shergan, said on the committee that the value was 980 million. The law determines the value of a billion 350 to a billion 800. Look at the explanation of the law, clearly and accurately explained. Mr Dragonja states in the investment sustainability of the project that the value is 700 billion. See its annexes — the value of a billion 700. Now tell me if any of these five interpretations can understand the value of the project. I don't think there's a hero on earth who can understand the value of the project with such different interpretations. I don't know. I don't know. And, of course, such a way of managing is wrong. That was, I would say, an explanation of this urgency and the urgency of adopting this law. And, of course, without the investment programme, because it is not shown how the project is financially covered, it is not possible to apply for any European call or if the interpretation is different – because now we also hear government interpretations that the law is not needed and so on – in fact, then I would say that these statements are wrong. [[…]] The investment programme is and should show the total amount of disbursed funding, as proposed by the Government, from banks to foreign investors. In short, however, the financial structure must be closed. Of course, the investment programme must also assess the financing price, which is the credit price, which will be covered here and, of course, below the end value of the final investment, we do not need any law. This is an investment programme that we do not have at all before the construction of the largest project. But the government stresses that we have a law. But we don't have an investment program. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we consider that the law is completely unnecessary, given the total irreconcilability of the value of the investment, because it can only be a legal basis for open financial manipulations on this largest project. If you calculate the difference between the lowest and the highest from this interpretation of the value of the project, the difference is about a billion and 80 million. This is very unrealistic, or if, on the other hand, you would say a very dedicated approach to how you misapproach such an investment. I am not saying that these differences contain unforeseen works or contain an additional risk reserve on this project or that there are still issues of funding costs raised here. No, this is already covered in basic values, which are interpreted as the final value of the project. The general public also points to an unreasonable approach to the second track project, since before the work begins, it is not clear whether we have a single track tunnel – with a service-safety tunnel – so says the construction permit. But the ministry has already announced that there will be no change in the building permit, so that the second pipe will also give the possibility to build a second track. So we don't know if we're going to have two tunnels with two tracks or if we're going to have one tunnel with two tracks or if we're going to have an extra track on the construction or the existing track. The profession has prepared more solutions than proposals than ideas for these experts, but there is no listening to their professional proposals. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we understand very well the necessity and the need to build a second track, we are aware of the responsibility that the Second track must be built within a relatively short time frame. But absolutely not in the way it is being built now. The professional civil initiative has always warned about all these irregularities, but it is completely ignored by the government. Gathering signatures for the referendum was their reasonable decision. All of these signatures are a very clear indicator that citizens have very numerously recognized the irregularities in project management of the second track, as well as the adoption of the law on the construction of the second track of Divac-Koper. Today, Members will decide on a resolution on the call for a referendum on the law on the construction of the second track, where we will confirm the date of the referendum. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we propose that the referendum and the presidential elections be consolidated in one date. However, the government coalition does not care about the savings of the good three million euros, but their calculation is solely that we who support this referendum will not reach the referendum quota. They're not interested in saving. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we propose that the date of the referendum, as well as for the presidential elections, should be 12 November of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the proposal for a decree. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues.Oh, my God! I believe that the purpose of this referendum is only to prevent further successful work of the Government, and I will justify these matters. This government is the first to give priority to the second track after long years of delegating the responsibility of the project and to move it from a dead point to a starting point. The start of construction works is foreseen already this year. This second track project has been carried out for a number of years, and every additional year the delay and transfer of responsibility by the start of the investment is absolutely increasing this damage. We are also faced with the overload of the railway connection between Kopro and Divac, which is increasing from year to year and potentially further economic damage. The second track is a major stimulus to the economy and thus represents a huge potential for creating new jobs. So, the construction of the second track means the consolidation of our country's strategic position, which means strengthening the Slovenian economy and logistics, which means increasing the competitiveness of Porta Koper, Slovenian Railways and the Slovenian economy, also means increasing transport safety. And it is at this point of increasing traffic safety that I would like to point out that, together with the construction of the second track, the modernisation of the railway line on the entire network is also going to be a major burden for the motorway cross. The customer of the modern centre of action in the direction of safe transport in Slovenia, because our policy is at the forefront of man. We want to prevent the serious consequences of road traffic accidents, and this will be achieved to a large extent. Further construction of the second track means reducing the adverse effects and risks to the environment, raising fire safety and reducing noise levels and, of course, lower carbon footprints. A more friendly mode of transport will also be made possible, as freight transport will switch to rail transport instead of burdening road transport. Today, for example, the motorway connection between Maribor and Ljubljana is burdened to this extent by freight traffic, that the drivers of passenger cars use only the emergency belt for normal driving, while the rest is fully loaded with trucks. And in doing so, many more of our people will get a job on Slovenian railways. The customer of the modern centre is the first to lead this project to a point of realization and we do not want Slovenia to be in charge of the project at the expense of taxpayers, so our financial structure has included the acquisition of European funds, grants and foreign investors, but in such a way that everything remains in Slovenian ownership. And it's important to stress that. But the last point that I think is even more interesting – because many times we have already justified the very importance of the construction of the second track – the last point seems very important to me because this process of collecting signatures for the referendum has somehow shown one other picture of our society and I would like to point out this. Anyone who walked past administrative units and watched or met these people at the stands had to get the impression that it was one that it was almost possible to say falango of the elderly soldiers of the modern mind who were running into the misdeeds who aggressively demanded that you sign if you didn't want to, they expected you to explain to them why you didn't want to. And that was extremely unpleasant and, on the other hand, indicative. The age structure of these agitators or activists had strong gerontological references, and if anything pleases me, it is that there were no young people among them. But we had a lot of ads on the billboards of student service to look for students to collect signatures, but luckily they didn't find a lot, and that's good. There have been examples of grandparents who have finally been trained to use Facebook on this social network boasting that they talked their grandson or granddaughter into signing the prize. But there weren't many of them. So it is possible to answer when colleague Žnidar said that the citizens recognized the need for a referendum. I do not agree; only in Ljubljana and Maribor, in the two largest cities have hundreds of thousands of people passed the stands, which were in the centre of the city in front of administrative units, municipalities and so on, but hundreds of thousands of signatures have not been collected. There's a minimum of 40 grand collected on the last day. And the European Community has also recognised the importance of this project, in particular this technical solution, entrusted it with and announced that it will devote some over 44 million to Slovenia in the first phase of its preparatory work. And I have to say that on this day when they published this, I was thinking that maybe the initiators of the referendum should start blushing in front of the mirror and in front of their home country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u23	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A nice greeting to the Minister and a co-worker! Of course, I must say, Mr President, that this debate, of course, is not or the introductions have not been the introductions to the decree, this is a debate on the law. So I'm just going to have to say a few words myself on this subject, because the decree is actually short and we could have done the debate substantially earlier and, of course, we wouldn't be repeating what we actually said several times in this National Assembly. But of course, since the debate on the committee was so wide, it is, of course, difficult to have a different meeting today. The second thing I have to say is, of course, the question; the referendum is legal, the referendum is legitimate, it is rejection, we know, of course, there is no doubt, but of course there is no doubt about what some claim, even of course, and without need some repeat that there is no doubt that we need the second track. [[...]] Of course, if we look at public opinion – no matter what I think about some research in a relatively small number of these residents – as published in Del, for example, it is interesting, so this data is of course very relative. 30% of people think the referendum is necessary, 30% will go to the vote, and 30% think it's a vote on the government. That is to say, this percentage – roughly the same, percentage up or down – means very clearly, it is about voting on the government, which is not very much in common with the second track. Of course, most people think the referendum is unnecessary. Of course, the bigger problem is the percentage of the so-called trust of the government. Of course, we are here, I will say, in some unfortunate way; the government's trust is 13%, but also the civil initiative trusts 16%, which is basically the same number that is catastrophically low for both, I think. I would not continue to analyze what these percentages mean, but I am suggesting some thoughts that I think might be important in our thinking today. Of course, I have some dilemmas about this subject — not about the decision, but about the law. I mentioned one a month ago when we had our last debate, and I said that I think the second track should have two tracks, and I will say, somehow all of us have achieved that there will be two tracks and this is a great realization for me of this government proposal, because we need to relax this karst edge where the train is driving now. The second, of course, is the question of the route. We have recently read in the newspaper some eyewitnesses, if I can use this term, who claim that this hook, which was almost made to the Italian border, was actually adopted at some political moment which was of course different. I will not judge those who have proposed this, but the question is whether we have studied enough what we call the Jasbinsch proposal here today. Indeed, it does shorten this line and, of course, it could also be cost-effective. As much as I'm a great layman myself, I'm sorry, but I looked at these percentages of affection, for I thought it was a problem – I don't think that's a problem either. And it would be possible to think carefully, but I do not believe that the Government is capable of finding out that this change of this plan is, that it would not be possible to legalise it with all these bureaucratic papers, if I may say so, which any such proposal must have. The government has proven its ability at some other actions, so I don't think it was a bad idea to think about it. The second is, of course, a matter of Slovenian ownership. I am still, I must say, under these texts that I read, some economists, increasingly convinced that it would be good for the Slovenians to remain owners. I will be very brief because you all know what this is or I do not have the right answer for what is happening to foreign investors – which is very nice in Europe, but the question of what it means in the long run and in this particular Europe. Now, of course, I will not encourage any doubt about this Europe. What I've heard in the introduction is that between doing nothing or doing something about it, however, there is obviously still a possibility of some shorter or more in-depth reflection, so of course I think that this second track or this referendum will not be for, of course, but that it would be good to think about something within it. [[…]] And I repeat, the dilemmas around this, whether we need another track or not, is not. There is no such dilemma. We need him. However, my colleague Rajić, who is not so far away, I will say, after an age that speaks of the gerontological characteristics of some of the participants in this process, one such or another, whether it is civil or not, I think that somehow it is not at the level of this national assembly or at least, I will say, even a parliamentary statement. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u25	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Daniel Krivec and Danilo Anton Ranc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u26	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The referendum is a democratic right of citizens, so I think it makes no sense for us to debate here why this referendum is. This referendum will be because more than 40,000 signatures of citizens who simply do not support this law have been collected. It's over. How were these signatures collected? Were the older ones in the stands there? Of course they were, because they have more time because they're not at work. The younger ones must have e-mailed their signatures. This doesn't even make sense to discuss it. This is the right of citizens. Of course, I am also making sure that this right is not the most expensive. If we can reduce the costs for this referendum, then I would like this referendum to be with the presidential elections. But we all know why, in fact, those who oppose the referendum oppose it. Because this would also achieve a quorum. However, I believe that the referendum could be together with the presidential elections. We all agree that we need a second track. Not just the second track, we need two good tracks. We also need to rebuild the whole railway infrastructure across the country in order to make roads more burdensome. There's no doubt about that. But given how we do these tracks – there is this route of Ljubljana – Kočevje, how many years it has been working, but there is still no end to it – I seriously doubt that we will be very quick and very rational on this track. I seriously doubt it. And because I have so many doubts about this project, that's why I support the referendum. If things were really clear, if plans had been completed, but not so many concerns about this, including the professional public, if a financial plan had been drawn up, if 75 % of the route were not the tunnels themselves, if there were not so many concerns about the new state firm and who would actually share this spoil, there would have been no doubt about it. We certainly do not do this in New Slovenia because we want to hinder this government or because we want something bad to the citizens, but simply because there are so many doubts about this project. And we all know very well how TEŠ 6 was built – there were still concerns and again, “yes, but now we have started, but now we have to continue” and the price has risen to twice the initial price. And I do not want this project to happen again with my help, so it is right for citizens, both politicians and civil society to do their utmost to oppose it. Then it is the responsibility of the Government or, in this case, the Parliament. Why did the government propose a law that doesn't really need it? So that she will not be responsible for this project and its consequences, but that those who supported it will bear all the responsibility. Otherwise, I cannot imagine why the law, which will also hamper certain changes to a certain extent. Because the law has to be kept. And it's gonna turn out that somewhere doesn't make sense to interfere, but then we're gonna change the law again overnight. But I'm afraid this government will plant shovels like that, bring medals, go to elections with a big project, and the problems will remain with the next governments. I wish, Mr Secretary of State, that this project would be a good one, successful in getting a second track. But like I said, I have a lot of doubts about this. And that's why I support the referendum. And since I am also in favour of reducing the costs for this referendum, I support the date that it is with the presidential elections. So it is not justified to challenge civil society to collect these signatures. It's a democratic right. Our opportunity and opportunity, however, is to reduce the cost of doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u27	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc and Mr Ivan Prelog. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, guilty man.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. First of all, for the introduction. I'll start where my colleague Ludmila ended up. I think it is within the competence and capacity of the National Assembly to try to implement the will of the people who have collected signatures for the referendum as cheaply as possible. And in this case, we have this possibility, despite the fact that you're all talking about how the National Assembly can't coordinate this. The National Assembly shall propose the date of the referendum. The President of the National Assembly shall propose a date of election for the President of the State. The President of the National Assembly is also part of the National Assembly. It is said that, in the light of good will, willingness, the matter is absolutely in line with all the business arrangements, with all the rules of the games to be aligned. So the argument that this is not possible because I don't know what rules of the game, they don't. Clearly, however, it is a dilemma as to why we should not combine these dates. That we, in the opposition and also in the civil initiative, advocate this merger in order to save certain costs that arise. You yourself, at the time of the campaign signatures, just argued that this was an unnecessary cost for the country. Now you don't want to cut that cost. So here you have to ask yourself where your credibility is on this. You all point out that we only advocate reducing costs. No, no, no. If you have listened to the debate on the committee, we have also talked about that, given that in the coalition you are always saying that this law is one of the best innovations of this government, that this project is the most transparent project in this country in the last period, it would also be very desirable for you to get this confirmation in the highest possible number of referendums. So all the arguments on the table are in favour of trying to combine these two dates. And as I said, there are no business obstacles or statutory, no formal embarrassments about this. Moreover, it is likely that a person would agree, both in the interest of you and in the interest of those who have signed to decide at the referendum whether this law is necessary or not to build another track. As to whether the second track is necessary or not, I think it is unnecessary to lose words because there is no parliamentary group that does not publicly say that we really need another track. However, there is a clear difference in whether we need it at some maximum price determined by some law, some particular instrument that you have introduced to get to it, or whether we are driving an investment like all investments in this country in the field of infrastructure have occurred. And once again, I warn you not to mix TES 6, because this was a private investment, not a public infrastructure until it was needed – 2009, 2010 – to provide guarantees for the loans hired by a private company. It was held outside the National Assembly. The National Assembly had nothing to do with this at its initial stage. That's why it's not right to mix these things with each other. Since then, we can agree to follow a similar procedure; following the procedure that some facts are actually in physical form already built. In this case, you are talking about the preparatory works, in the case of TES, it was about the initial investment and the fact that the guarantee of the mother HSE TEŠ 6 was given for signing the 100 million-million-dollar contract and that the matter went in the direction that we all know. We all warn that in this case it is not the same principle. You're always talking to your opposition colleagues about the fact that the adoption of DLN took place during our government. Otherwise, you say that we have accepted it, but I hope that at least someone knows how the National Location Plans are adopted and I believe that you are not thinking about Members doing it or basically doing it, but doing so also by professional services. And you all know if you've read anything, that at some point it's been tied up to the so-called new track. This new track is not Divaca-Koper, but was then set up as Trieste-Crazy. And on the basis of this treaty, which was agreed with Italy at that time, we received so-called points for a new route. Because in the case of Divac– Koper it is in any case a compensation, reconstruction, etc., even if it is a new track, because a new track means a new corridor in the space we set up. That is why, until 2011, when our government was not in 2010, we insisted on this interstate agreement, the agreement that was with Italy, which allowed us to build, in the notes, a new line in the TNT system. After that, however, the old have actually changed and we therefore note that, at the moment we have come to some realization, it is necessary to determine whether all of these conditions still make sense to take them into account and whether the investment is too expensive for what we need at this point. The explanation given by the Government regarding the inadmissibility of this amended date of the referendum also states that the building permit was obtained, of course, 23. 6. 2017 and 23, respectively. 6. 2017, the European Commission of Slovenia awarded to carry out preparatory works and additional geological and archaeological surveys of these 44 million, mentioned earlier by the Minister. It also says in that document about the options that we should study with this money. What does that mean, everyone can imagine, but if we get the money to study, geologically explore, perhaps it is also time or still the opportunity to find the most optimal route, as some coalition colleagues have talked about. Especially because at least in that part around the Ospa Valley and Tinjan itself there are a lot of objects that require a lot of preparatory work in the notes; we are talking about tunnels, we are talking about viaducts that are very short distances. Anyone who gets to know little knows that in the case of a tunnel — whether long or short — entrances are a very demanding element. And in the event of some optimisation, it would be useful for the coalition and the opposition, especially for the citizens who will pay for it. Given that we have the money to re-examine this and come up with the optimal options, it makes sense to do so. In fact, some of the options on the table that the Government and the profession do not want to talk about are talking about reducing the number of tunnels from 8 to 3, meaning so many and so many fewer entry portals that we are not talking about these intermediate viaducts. And our proposal or our initiative not to make additional costs and unnecessary investments is precisely in this direction to examine all these options on the table. And if a referendum is in the notes of an alibi for the government, for the ministry to come up with a better solution, it is, however, for its good cause. Why were we already on the run against 2TKK or the 2TKK Act? It is precisely because the matter is not comparable to any similar European project, since, wherever it is a comparison mentioned in the previous works, it is usually a cross-border project between the two countries. In our case, it's not. And since both railways and motorways have been built according to a model that has so far proved sustainable, what the minister on the committee also made clear is that we also built motorways with laws that were passed in this national assembly, but there was a company called Dars who was essentially looking for State guarantee credit insurance, but it was not for a single section that established individual companies. [[…]] Even for challenging sections like, I don't know, Trojans and the like. But this was a systemic approach, which clearly required a State guarantee in the case of a section which, after financial construction, also requested guarantees by the National Assembly. And that's why there were individual laws in the Dars case. In the case of 2TKK, this is essentially a completely new approach, where one piece of some public infrastructure is given to a company that first acquires the concession and then the building right, draws some systemic resources from, as you yourself wrote in the law, tolls and concessions in Luka Koper, which is already a certain revenue of the country and can be channelled by the state into some public infrastructure. But in this case, for 45 years it will be for a company that will operate with this piece of public infrastructure to maintain it and so on. I think that this is unnecessary, and therefore we insist that this law is inappropriate and will not allow what you all advocate at the Ministry – one even or the same approach to solving the other rail network. As soon as we save one piece, the following sections appear to us, at least stop in Ljubljana and transport, which will have to be arranged around Ljubljana in an appropriate manner. And how are we going to set up a financial structure in this case for all these other infrastructure projects? It won't work. I think it's time to pull the manual brake to give the referendum some more time to make the right decisions. Thus, at this technical level, to obtain a solution that will least affect or that will be the cheapest for an optimal solution, without printing with a solution that was practically in the forward sense set up in 1994, 1995, if you look at the documents – it is said at the time of the SCT, the Primorje and similar giants who set up projects that were interesting at the time – and to look at the actual situation, at least in this part that connecting with Italy is no longer relevant and there is an optimal solution also at the technical and financial cost. On the other hand, to re-examine this inadequate, inefficient system of funding for each section and to find a solution that has already led to the successful completion of motorway and rail projects, all of these projects with European funds. This excuse that it's some kind of extra guard to get more money, I think she's a little too attracted to her hair and she's not holding. Maybe even answers to our colleagues who accused us of supporting Magna's marriage first, now we're breaking it. See, even in Magne's case, it's a similar approach that some people take at the second track, when they don't actually put information relevant to someone's decision on the table. If someone then said that although there were suitable locations where Magna could build, but this retreated, only one space would have been forced, probably many — not just us in our parliamentary group but many others from the coalition — would not vote in favour of this law that actually affects quality land. And on the other hand, you yourself have been somewhat disappointed; first talking about 4 thousand jobs, then 200, 300, of course with the possibility of some upgrade. But it's always a pigeon on the roof. Thus, all those conditions that we had on the table when we decided were no longer in force at the next moment. And the same thing happens at the second track. First of all, it is uniform with escapee trenches, and the decision on duality – we do not even know what that means or how it will be realized. They do not want to talk about the possibility that the tube could be double-tier, it is said that there would be two tracks in one tube, even though we already have two-tier tubes in the mains of the longest trenches due to avoidance and so on. So there's no data coming in the right way at our tables. It can be said by anyone that people do not get to know everything, but the project presented in secret is very difficult to support, even if it has a unique funding system, on which both the KPK and the Court of Auditors comment and practically reject it, and the Ministry does not explain the audit reports of the past relating to the design of the second track. So I propose that we, however, consider lowering the costs for taxpayers and bringing together the date of the referendum. For, as I said, there are no formal obstacles to not doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u29	Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Welcome to the Minister and to the Secretary of State and also to Members and Members of Parliament! This debate on the second track in Parliament has been dragged around like the yoke of a snake for all three years of this mandate, so that one would think that we have no other major economic issues or other. These discussions — from interpretations to discussions on such or different solutions — were different, and, of course, they were always evident that this government does not realize anything in time and that some projects need to be shown concretely. Now that exactly what we all wanted has happened, we all wanted economic growth to actually revive, to start important investment projects and to literally create conditions for the polycentric condition of Slovenia and, of course, to establish an infrastructure that will produce multiple effects on the development of the economy, but we encounter such or different emissions from pollen under our feet. In fact, I cannot imagine this in any other way than that the opposition's jealousy goes to the success of this government in establishing infrastructure projects. This, of course, does not deny the democratic right to a referendum. People have made up their minds, I respect that. However, above all, I think of colleagues from the technical wing of the SDS party, who think that somewhere deep in their heart they think otherwise that there are some political views here that are literally artificially created, frizzy for some political needs. In fact, it also seems to me that all former governments – and let's see for 20 years, this is the bus of ministers – all of them were moving in, walking in Slovenia, painting, building the third development axis, the second track, nothing from nothing. But now that this government has shown something, we are inventing extraordinary sessions, interpretations, referendums, civil initiatives. For example, yesterday in Koroška we signed a protocol on the construction of the third development axis, but I was already at the meeting the day before, “knowingly, let us also give a civil initiative here, an initiative” so that we can probably hope, of course, that Mr. Kovacic may be there with another referendum against the third development axis. I do not think that this leads anywhere and that in Slovenia we must step together, as we say in Koroška, and good projects to support and not some good projects that are on the table, to mine one way or another. So I think that this government, as well as Minister Gasperšič, has shown specifically with the team how one challenging project must be undertaken, which has not been implemented in 20 years. Now that this project is at the table, when it comes to an interdisciplinary, an innovative approach involving various solutions, international sources of funding for the frozen country, of course, this requires a new approach and this requires a legal framework and a legal basis for this project to be implemented. So I think it is more or less clear for all of these discussions literally to mine a successful project that has included international financial resources in this project, which has already been shown – in the previous week we have received certain resources for the implementation of this project. In addition, it has, of course, also spread the financial risk for this project to all stakeholders in this project. Let's not forget that Luke Koper will have the greatest benefit here in addition to all of us as a society. Why shouldn't Luke Koper be involved in this project by covering the financial structure? I just don't get it. And of course this solution Besides, why don't the trucks that destroy our highways – of course, with the ultimate goal of moving to the railways – also co-finance the second track and thus, of course, relieve the burden of the state budget with this investment? [[…]] I just can't imagine where opponents of this law see a bad solution. In fact, this is a very good solution, which with a diversified financial risk also allows other infrastructure projects in Slovenia. And, of course, I'm going to say again the third development axis and the fourth development axis and the reconstruction of roads that are in a catastrophic state. Notwithstanding the fact that we have earmarked 200 million this year, which is once again the success of the Government of Mir Cerar and the Minister, we cannot afford to impose additional burdens on the state budget and to hang the entire financial structure for the execution of the second track on taxpayers. It is also right for ordinary citizens to hear — in fact, when they go to this referendum to decide whether to have a second track. That's all. Easy. But that's what we want, so let them know clearly. I am quite certain that this financial structure for the second track with a diversified financial risk allows for normal polycentric development of Slovenia and investment in all infrastructure projects in Slovenia. Of course, in Koroška we have enough of this egoism, including individual selfish interests, to aim at the state budget and let us go up to the top to drive with the field vehicles, or two hours to Ljubljana or even near the border. You're going to Lake, but you're almost here. I would, of course, reiterate that the law is good, allowing the European funds, the Juncker Fund, to be drawn up. It is Europeanly interconnected because it connects European countries. We all say on the big mouth: Let's connect in Europe. This is a practical example of the good integration of the two countries, which, of course, link the infrastructure or the scar or nervous system of this European organism to a whole. To repeat, the project also includes funding for companies and I cannot understand this selfish view of Luka Koper: Let the country build us this second track, and we will then drive up these containers. So here and, of course, like I said before, these trucks that are loading our highways, why don't we use some of these tolls to build another track. [[…]] So, in fact, if you would now answer some questions, I would simply worry about these debates in Parliament. [[…]] And this shortsightedness of ours, that we do not recognize that some neighbouring countries think: Let these Slovenians fight among themselves – or Slovenians – say Makarovič – and we will build our infrastructure and they will fight for 20 years. I live there at the Austrian border, sometimes I go up to the border to look at something and see the Austrians building this railroad. They're pretty quiet, they've been building for 10 years, and then as soon as the opening comes, we'll be what? Wiped under the nose instead of building that second track as soon as possible. Sometimes it also reminds me that some of my colleagues from the opposition who are more techniques I understand that they are also involved in the technical expertise that I also appreciate by their references, which they have produced, but we cannot turn Parliament into some college of a state economic society or Darsa, where we will now literally design where there will be a channel or something like that. [[…]] In fact, we need to separate that Parliament, the legislator establishes a legal framework whereby these projects are then carried out and implemented in these companies. So I think it goes sometimes of course attempt otherwise I have previously listened to the obvious that this law prejudges some but no, the law sets macro frameworks for this project. [[…]] [[…]] With the debates I am listening to, there are also various innovative options that have been raining recently, some of our committees or the National Assembly would like to turn them into colleges of some companies. So I think that in this case, of course, it is a new approach, a corrective approach to the implementation of the project. And this law and this approach is now in progress and I appeal to everything, let's recognize this as an innovative approach to the implementation of infrastructure projects and why, of course, we would be waiting for something to happen again and we would be turning left again, and the second track would be going down the Drava or down the Sava, and we would be left here with no infrastructure. Of course, each project is different. I am sure that my colleagues from the opposition – both of them and my colleague Krivec Žnidar – have taken away every single 50 projects in their lives and no project is the same. And I'm also sure that this is also a novelty, bringing some new solutions. And I am sure that it is good and that some of the projects that you have implemented, I would say, perhaps not as politicians, before in economic societies, even good or well-established in some innovative way. I would also have touched the level of the investment when it was obvious — once 700 million, 900 billion 700. So let's say in mathematics we call the same denominator, that's pretty straightforward. Let's put the parameters on the same denominator, and you'll see you get to the same number. We can't mix the operating costs with the insurance of some things into the underlying investment. That table clearly states the investment value of 970 or how many million already. Don't hold me now, but that's basically what this is about. Therefore, I think we should be correct, but let us support the good projects that this government is leading. And I can't get rid of the impression – whether it's Magna now or whether it's the second track, probably tomorrow's third axis – that someone will again find themselves with some new variants, and they'll come up with some butterfly initiative with some stories that hurt us all. As far as the referendum is concerned, I will say that it should be implemented in accordance with the legislation. Of course, even here, given that there have been obvious – as soon as possible the second track – I support this date and I think we have discussed this a lot on the committee. In short, I would like to invite everyone in this Slovenia to stop arguing. This little Slovenia, there are 2 million of us, but our neighbors can only laugh at us, no. Let's stop once, let's support good projects and put new ones on the tables and we'll support yours as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mr. Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Greetings to all present! The last days – the last one we witnessed on the working body, which drafted a proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum – the debate was mainly about the date of the referendum or the date of the vote. Last Friday, the competent Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space decided to propose a legislative referendum on 24 September. The instigator of the referendum on the Law on the Construction, Use and Management of the Second Route between Divaca and Koprom, Mr Vila Kovacic, suggests that the referendum on the second track law should be announced on the same day as the presidential elections, since, as he has repeatedly pointed out, they would avoid double costs. The latter is also claimed by the opposition. On this point, Mr Vila Kovacič even rushed to the President of the State and discussed the date of the referendum. This is a very unusual conduct or political pressure, as it is clear to everyone that it is in the case of a referendum for a decision of the National Assembly, in which the President of the Republic cannot intervene. The Presidential elections, however, shall be signed by the President of the National Assembly and shall be signed only after this referendum has been signed. Therefore, with regard to the conduct of Mr Willi Kovacic, as well as the parliamentary groups that have tabled the amendment to amend the date of the vote, it is worth noting that this is a matter of populism and deception. Mr Dusan Vukko, Director of the National Election Commission, explained to us at the committee that the cost of the referendum in the past was around €5 million and that savings would be made at the same time, but not at this level, as Mr Vila Kovacič and others said. We would save about two and a half million euros, which of course is not small. In my opinion, if the referendum were successful and the law was rejected and the construction of a multi-annual EU financial framework would not be initiated by the end of 2014-2020, the referendum's candidates who support the referendum or who wish to reject the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway should be more concerned. These are about 60 times higher than the two-and-a-half million referred to by the Director of the National Election Commission. Let me explain more to all those who do not want to hear it. In the world, choosing one option is to give up something else. Oportunity costs of the decision are the value of lost goods. These costs simply represent the value of an alternative, which we give up when we choose a certain option. Let me explain what the cost is. I am only talking about the opportunity costs of acquiring and spending EU funds. The blockade on Porta Koper each day for the Slovenian Railway Group amounted to around €700,000 in losses. The assessment of the opportunity costs for Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways was not even able to obtain. Let me get on with it. At the end of June, the results of the IPE 2016 call were published, where Slovenia obtained 44.3 out of €57 million of the €57 million grants for the preparation of the second track project between Divaca and Kopro. On 14 July, however, the deadline for applying for the so-called blinding call by the European Commission under the Connecting Europe Facility, which we are counting on between €80 million and €100 million, will expire. Respectable, not 2.5, but €144.3 million can be an opportunistic or real cost of the referendum you are proposing or supporting. These are the real costs that – how absurd it sounds – Mr Kovacic and the others can cause to all of us, i.e. Slovenian taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister with Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me repeat once again the position of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. We have been supporting – and for many years – the construction of a second track. In such a configuration that these will be two tracks and simultaneous construction will be. That's probably clear to everyone by now. And here I want, because it may be in doubt that I am not telling the truth, that we have worked hard on this in the 2004-2008 mandate and that we have also worked hard to build a logistics centre in the municipality of Beltinci in Pomurje. This is, of course, not directly related to the second track, but partly related to Luka Koper. There is a figure that has already been purchased about 80 hectares of land; what is now the status of this, of course, I do not know because I am not at the trough, as far as the information itself is concerned. I want to make it clear that we're for the second track because people are confused. Some of them are further misled in your deliberations today, dear colleagues and colleagues. People expect it to be a referendum question: Are you up for it or are you up against another track? There will be no such question, but that is how people perceive these discussions. The question will be: Are you in favor of this law adopted by the National Assembly? But here we, the National Assembly, have actually all got together one strong slap by a civil initiative. Politics has spoken and got a slap. Also in the form of 48 thousand signatures of a civil initiative. Who has power in this country? 3. Article 3 of the Constitution still applies and says: “People have power in this country.” Humans. Should this civilian initiative now receive 48 thousand signatures again to determine the date of the referendum? And now we're ignoring this 48 grand, this people, this civil initiative, and we're saying, "Look, we're cheering on your wish, we're going to schedule the referendum date when we -- read the ruling coalition -- fit. And then I wonder, do people really have power in this country? No, it's not. I regret, however, and this is indeed the mistake of this government; when it comes to such big projects that will cost a billion and more, we do not know how much, today no one knows what it will be like, but in Slovenia, if it were state projects, then this government, if it were blue, would make a coalition for the second track and would also invite the opposition. [[…]] Someone in the opposition must know something, too. That went well, I'll go back to the 2004-2008 mandate when we did what we did, some connection, some development coalition or something like that, [[advertising from the hall]] Partnership for Development – Thank you, Dr. Gorenak – the Partnership for Development where we have coordinated key laws with the opposition. Of course with those customers who wanted to. They didn't want everything. We also experienced a knife in the back when some opposition party, such as the SD, said, yes, we support this law and then voted against the Income Act. But now it's not a topic, now it's a dark decision. And here I really regret ignoring the Slovenian people, Slovenian taxpayers in such a way that they are told: No, your wishes will not be taken into account. And I wonder if Article 3 of the Constitution still applies. Is there any authority in this country? Nevertheless, I claim that power has a people and does not have the authority of every single coalition. And don't fool yourself when you say, "Oh, this law must be, this referendum must not be because if we don't have this law, we don't get the money from Juncker's fund." Don't talk about it! I sit for many hours on the European Union Affairs Committee, where we study, to receive various dossiers concerning the Juncker Fund, the so-called EFSI Fund. And it doesn't say anywhere that there has to be a project or money from Juncker's fund that there has to be a marriage. Don't fool me, please! Because if that were the case, then accept some law to make it easier and more effective to draw on the cohesion funds where we are on the dog. Then adopt the law for a more efficient and faster absorption of cohesion funds. And you know how to write it? No, you don't. Nor do we deceive that if there is no second track now, then the highways will be destroyed immediately and that this second track will also bring this solution so that we can move the trucks onto the railway wagons. Yeah, well, please, the calculator doesn't cost much today, you have it on your phone for free, and you can calculate it. Calculate that for 100 trucks, say, you need a 2km long composition. But 100 trucks may be just 1, maybe 2% of all heavy goods vehicles in transit. What have we accomplished with this? Then say: Yes, this second track will allow us to – I don't know – get up to 10% of the trucks on the wagons. That's not how it works. When Slovenia entered the EU on 1 May 2004, it was first agreed, if I may say so, by truckers, who drive heavy trucks in transit. We counted them every day in the Long Village at the end of May 2004, 5,000. Five thousand! Put them on the train composition and you'll see how long this composition is going to be. It's just a little bit to be reckoned with. And don't paint people, and now the freeways will be empty. Nobody said that, but that's how people understand it. And what about this marriage that goes to the referendum — and thank God it goes — among other things, I resent it? I resent this law or those who propose that they have clearly excluded parliamentary supervision in this very important investment. Parliamentary supervision is clearly excluded. We had a job or better for you to adopt this law and then raise your hands and just watch and listen. Someone once said, "Yes, yes, because you can set up an investigative commission." Yeah, that's all true. The parliamentary commission of inquiry is not intended to monitor the investment. To distribute, they spread financial risks. It also mentions that Hungary is now to enter financially. Do you think Hungary will take over — any country, any country — or do you think they will now go into this investment in order to take on the financial risk? Don't paint people, tell them the truth. Just these days we're dealing with some referendums from a few years ago when people were loaded. They were loaded! I do not want to open these new questions now. So when we talk about this issue, we are actually talking today when people are listening to us and deciding how they will vote in the referendum because the referendum will definitely be. Then let us be honest, colleagues and colleagues, and let us say everything that is also the secret of this law. Let us say everything, and above all the truth that this investment brings. Don't paint people. And I regret, I regret that today, which is likely to be bulldozingly voted by the Assembly of State on 24 September for a referendum day, will in some way be placed in a cube by the 3rd Article of the Slovenian Constitution, which says: “In Slovenia has power of the people.” In this case, when the actual initiative for the referendum came from a civil initiative – not one of the political parties, from a civil initiative, it seems to me, is the right thing – but here in fact now the National Assembly or policy returns with a slap, secondly, and says: We do not consider your wishes, even if we trample Article 3 of the Constitution, which says, in this country has power of the people. Today will be a sad day for this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko has the word, please, procedurally. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. Now we have been talking about this unfortunate second track for more than two hours. All the views of the Group were expressed, more than 10 debates were held, and the Minister and the Secretary of State did not take the time to give any response to any debate, reservations, concerns, arguments made by Members or statements made by the Group of Members. The Secretary of State performed very vehemently on television. Here, when it comes to dealing with opinions, one at a time, there is no communication. The same goes for the minister. And, Mr Vice-President, I propose that you call on the Government to actively engage in the debate and that it responds to all that Members say, whether it is such a debate or not, or whether such a agenda item makes no sense. The fact that the Minister who is at the meeting does not speak is that practice has become a practice in this national assembly, but we cannot tolerate it anymore. In short, someone who is taught about all the details of the project, all the details of the law he has proposed and is now the subject of debate or decision-making and will be the subject of a referendum decision, should be able to argue and confront his opinion. It's unacceptable what's going on. And this is a warning to you, who are already taking the meetings from the meeting to the meeting, from the point at these meetings of the National Assembly. Look, the proponents are experts in this area, they're builders, they're running the biggest investment project in the country right now, and they're not talking. We're not some group of people here who shouldn't know anything at all or make things clear or explain. That's your job, that's why you got the chance, that's why you announced the time, that's what you're here for. And, Mr Vice-President, I propose that you invite the Government to participate actively in this agenda item. This is my request, and I ask you to kindly ask the government to speak slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Yes, I'm sure Dr. Peter Gasperšič will be involved in the debate. When he gets involved, of course he can't be mine. [[…]] Mr. Franz Jursha, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u38	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. For some time — one of the discussers earlier said that for two hours, two and a half hours — we are discussing a topic that is not actually on the agenda. We are talking today about the decree; this decree has five points, but we are talking about everything and we are actually asking someone to interpret us, to clarify the Government's views on the views of the candidates for the referendum. That's not a theme. It's not about that today, it's not on the agenda today. And if we're going to stick to the agenda, then we should be discussing these five points. And in these five points, things are simple and simple. Very short, sharp, concrete. And that's what we need to talk about today. Therefore, I propose, Mr Vice-President, that you, in fact, draw the attention of all the debaters to the debate on the agenda item actually set out in the invitation for today's meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Of course, I had already said in the introduction, when I discussed that it was embarrassing that the committee, the work of the mother, was talking about the law, not the decision and, of course, it was difficult. However, the parliamentary groups have already had such a concept in their views and, of course, it is difficult in the middle of this debate, and of course I cannot do so. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Well, look. My colleague Jurš may have ignored it, but the motion for a decree is the Infrastructural Committee; it is not a candidate for anyone, but a working body of the National Assembly. It is perfectly normal for Members to debate and this matter has come on the agenda only because something has turned up somewhere because there have been substantive errors and also procedural errors, obviously. And I, Mr Vice-President, propose that you call on the Government to actively participate in these discussions. Perhaps some things will have to be clarified and explained because they are open. Obviously, these dilemmas have not been cleared up so far — not in the preparation of the law, not in the handling of the decision on the working body, and they probably will not be here, as it appears. This is where the government sits for five hours or sits for five hours and we're not gonna know a damn thing. And that's why I'm also asking you to do something to get the government to start talking. Otherwise, I don't know, the time of the Minister and the Secretary of State is too precious for them to sit here for five hours and say nothing and listen to what members of one or another political group say. It sucks. And the task of the government, Mr Vice President, is to clarify things. If necessary, the date will be the date, if any other details are required. If she doesn't like something, the amendment can also be prepared. But above all, it is the duty of the Government to participate in the agenda of the National Assembly. This government and Mr Minister and Secretary of State do not participate in this item. Everyone can figure that out. They're not working together. Not in such a way or in other forms. They're just present. Mr Vice President, I suggest you just do your job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u41	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u42	Well, what Mr Tanko has already afforded twice is his legitimate right. After all, according to the rules of procedure, he can continue to call on the Government to try to discuss and participate in the four, the four, the four. But on the other hand it is very clear who by law is competent to propose and set a date. This is certainly not the government, and therefore in this debate I do not know what to discuss. Should he say that he agrees or disagrees? She's already told her position. Secondly, we must decide whether we will adopt this decree, as spoke of by Comrade Jurš. But my friend Tank doesn't really care. He needs a demonstration here, he needs to call here publicly and talk about how the government is not responding. If I were in the government, I would say in the beginning the position and in the end the position and I have nothing to discuss, because we Members of the Dark! We are talking about everything else, just not what is the essence and basis of this proposal that we have on the table. And that's the point. That is why, Mr President, I propose, because by evening he will do so again twice, my colleague Tanka, that you know in advance what his procedural purpose is and stop him, because that makes no sense. And we're not making a fool of ourselves here! [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u43	Well, Mr Tanko has the right to a procedural proposal. Of course, I think that Dr Peter Gasperšič has heard the call and we continue to discuss it. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have the floor. Prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl and Mag. Bojan Krajnc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u44	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I also have to make it very clear that this request was sent to the National Assembly by a working body, one very important to me in this National Assembly, namely the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. I think you will all agree with me that this committee is extremely important and also dictates some development of the Republic of Slovenia. I will make sure that my colleagues are not disagreeable either by the Minister or by the Secretary of State in order to make every effort to focus on today's point and the topic that has been accompanying us for some time. Of course, people who listen to us, who follow us through screens, find it very difficult to understand that we do not find a common language on the project we are talking about today, which we have been talking about for some time in the past. Of course, how would we find a common language if we didn't find a common language on the referendum, on the date of the referendum. About one date, in particular to find a common language for him to be on the board of the President of the National Election Commission and I think he explained very clearly how much we can save – somewhere between 2.5 million and 2.7 million euros – we cannot do that. [[…]] In the debate, when you warn the opposition about what it should not say, let me say that I have also heard the very humiliating words of humiliation on the part of the largest coalition party today, the words of humiliation for all those who have signed. These are over 48 000 in the Republic of Slovenia and are coming and signed by all Slovene municipalities. To make it easier for us to get along, we didn't get 100 or 200 thousand votes in the elections. Most of them have been won in the National Assembly, but I will not be named now, 6 000 116 or at least 523 votes, but we are certainly all equal Members. 523 votes! This may be so much so that we do not humiliate those people and make fun of them who have given this signature — not against the other track, but against the law and the company you have set up. And of course this vast majority in this national assembly does not understand and, of course, as a result, do not understand this Slovenian citizen and citizens. To touch our mandate. I'm also a member of the Infrastructure Committee myself. And, Minister, you know, when we were at the hearing together, you're making fun of all those who might be on some segment when we're talking about another track. [[…]] If I recall correctly, it was said at the hearing on the second track question that we don't need it for another 20, 30 years. As for the third development axis, however, it was said that this will not be built because it is not necessary and that Koroška, a respected colleague from Koroška, will be a sleeping village. If memory doesn't leave me, it was said three years ago at the hearing. It has been some time since I have not heard anyone in this National Assembly that it is against another track and I have not heard anyone from outside that it opposes the second track and development of this part of Slovenia, no one. But the fact is, once again, when I heard it through the media in a period of time, the former President of the Republic said it was a strategic project for Slovenia. National, I'm sorry. Then the stories began to unfold. My colleagues on the left and right talked a lot about the price. From 900 to a billion 700. I'm not going to talk about the price today. We're not going to repeat ourselves too much. What I miss is I have to say that I am not an expert in this area, that I will not be too smart, but when I listen to it from the left and right, there is certainly no investment programme. [[…]] That's a fact. And experts can explain one way or another. This one was up to 31. 1. 2017 and was not confirmed by the Government because there was no financial basis. This one came to the 31st government. 1. 2017, but he did not go through because there was no financial basis. And then this app came along. We talk about this even in the spring, of course, both of us — some are right, others are wrong. I think it is necessary to find a common date for the referendum, so that as many citizens as possible decide on this development segment in this part of Slovenia. I think that this must be our goal, not our goal, but the Secretary of State, that maybe you've been working for a month now to act against this referendum so that it doesn't work. I don't think that's right. I hope I have the wrong information when a big car carrier tells me that even trucks get on their backs of a sticker. I think it's wrong that this isn't right, so hopefully, I sincerely hope I have the wrong information that this is misinformation. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If this is how we treat taxpayers' money, it is bad for the development of Slovenia. That's not right, and that's irresponsible. Of course, all of us, if the mandate endures to the end, we are still tied up for a year, a bad year; no one can guarantee which one of us will sit here. But it is wrong to leave over a billion, from 900 to a billion 700, to a company that we don't need, that's 2TKK. I myself call on all honourable Members, you, Minister of State, to find a common language here today on the date of the referendum and to decide as many people in the Republic of Slovenia as possible on this important investment. However, let me finish, but there is no basis, this is an investment programme for which there is no financial basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Prepare to be Mrs. Vojka Shergan and Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In view of the importance of the topic, as you all point out, you would be expected here, of course, in this debate room of the National Assembly. Vice-President, I believe you will not interrupt me, even though I will not devote all my time to implementing my decision. That the second track is necessary for us to need the second track, we have practically all of us, and we have always stressed, so of course the members of the Desus Group. Last time we turned the minister on the heat of interpolation, we made it clear to him in the Desus Group: “Minister, if no shovel is planted this year, otherwise, if it does not join this year, and this proactively for the construction of the second track, there will be no support in Desus.” And that's exactly what we meant. Now, of course, we need a second track, but we need a second track so that it will not be synonymous with a new hole without a bottom, that it will not be another TER, that it will not be another investment that will not be financially closed or closed. We need a clear financial structure with carriers and a ceiling of the necessary resources. What does the second track bring? Of course it brings a lot of things. It brings the competitiveness of Luke Koper, brings the competitiveness of many economic operators in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, brings better, more optimal polycentric development, brings satisfaction to people, and ultimately brings potential many jobs that we still need in Slovenia. It is necessary to ensure, of course, that a uniform model for the management of public rail infrastructure is maintained in the context of a financial structure which must be sustainable. Who participated in collecting signatures, who intended to separate people by age, to separate by geographical, national or any other affiliation, I think that in this debate it is totally inappropriate and irrelevant. [[…]] The fact is that those who collected the signatures, i.e. the initiators of the referendum, collected the required number of signatures, are over 40,000. Of course, the will of people must be respected and, of course, carried out, because they are the basis for this marriage, the referendum as soon as possible. However, we are probably all aware that the second track should be needed yesterday and, of course, tomorrow — with deliberate activities, closed financial structure, with a clear calculation, it will not be too late tomorrow. We can't have any more delays here, and we can't afford it. However, to tell you the truth, I personally and even in the Desus Group would not like to present this referendum as either for or against the Government, because we are probably the only ones who are likely to need better, better and better rail infrastructure. And we certainly don't want a referendum in the style of that a few years ago when it was decided on the family code and it was easy on the wallpaper, it wasn't even the content of the family code, the content was for or against the government. I believe that we need a second track, I believe that we will build it, I believe that we will build it in the best possible way, that the profession will achieve consensus here, and that all of us, especially those who are most called to do so, will have in mind that it is the perspective of people in the Republic of Slovenia and that it is necessary to act with public means as if it were our private pockets, because in any event, in the final phase, taxpayers will eventually cover it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Šergan has the floor to prepare Dr. Ange Logar and Dr. Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go, Mrs. Private Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. The law adopted by the National Assembly is good. Its goal is to build a second track. The government has always followed this objective. It identified the construction of a second track as a priority project. It obtained a building permit and adopted a law where 2TKK acts as an investor. In his speech, a colleague of the opposition said that the highest priority was the law on managing the investment. I don't think that's because it's project management, and I've put a lot of emphasis on this, both in the National Assembly and in the Committee. And even when we were discussing European funds, the use of European funds, and when the minister had interpellation, I stressed that, in essence, European funds could be used in other ways. And then I also mentioned the TNT conference on Brdo, which was in fact a model of financing as big projects as we have today. This one seems to me, somehow I can't believe all the arguments that have been presented. We're still saying that this model is to the refugees, that it's nowhere to be found. I can't believe this is actually a new way of project investment and investment management. You also somehow do not hear the arguments that have been raised both on the Committee by the Ministry and on our part when you said that the law determines the value of the investment, which it does not. The law provides for sources of financing, not investment value or investment value. It also doesn't sound or hear anything. 2TKK meets the conditions that it can, in fact, apply to a project for European funds and that these European funds can be obtained, as we have always stressed. We believe the project is good enough to continue with this project. The project will also be announced in mid-July on a blinding call, this is a mixed funding, and of course everything will be done to secure European funds on the so-called blending call. As we know, these funds are mixed. These are CEF funds, including guarantees given by the EFSI for this project. This is also how 2TKK will apply. And it's about financing the back countries. In short, it is obvious that this is a mixed funding of this project, and somehow you don't want to hear it. That this is the right way, the European Commission also recognized that, a good week ago, it also earmarked 44 million funds for this project. I would certainly not have allocated these funds if it had not been for the financial structure and if it had not been good enough. It is also possible now that, in his presentation, a colleague said that for the first time in a long and broad discussion on such a broad topic as the second track, that all citizens would be involved, but should be professional and that this project management is unacceptable. I will now answer this by saying that the first legislative referendum in Slovenia has actually been held on the subject of the construction of thermal power plant 3 in Trbovje. On January 11, 1999, Lojze Peterle – Slovenian Christian Democrats, Franz Zagozhen – SLS and Jože Zagozhen, on behalf of the SDS, co-signed the request for a referendum to protect Slovenian citizens. And this was the first legislative referendum. At that time, 27.24% of electoral beneficiaries decided on the fate of energy development in Zasavje. So don't talk, don't talk now, it's the first time. Because it is your practice to somehow disable certain parts of Slovenia, to hinder them in development and then your party participated in it. Here I would also like to point out that this civil initiative on the Committee has also stressed that it will also reject the construction of the third development axis – but now I am talking about this committee that we have had these days or last week, I don't know which day it is the same day, man no longer knows what day is going on – and that he will reject all the projects that anyone will encourage in this Slovenia, "we will destroy everything!" he said. I mean, it seems unacceptable for us to tell the Slovenians that we will destroy the development of Slovenia. I really don't think that's acceptable. And I believe, I believe that our citizens are so very smart that they will recognize positive projects; what is actually what Slovenia can do for development. And such a project is certainly the second track that Slovenia needs, because it is an international project, it is an economic growth, it is the development of the port of Koper, the visibility of Europe, it is a corridor. In short, I believe this referendum will be to build a second track. Of course, it is also very important that the date of the referendum, which is 24 September, I think it is right that this date is right to decide as soon as possible that the project can then continue because the project is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Prepare Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec and Mr. Ivan Škodnik. Here you go, Mr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u50	Thank you, Chairman. I don't know if this is a privilege, but it's always my turn for Private Shergan. This means that I have before me a whole series of laps that I can then use in my argument, why some thing is good or why it's not good. But this time I won't, because then I could make about once more a contribution than my colleague Shergan's. I just miss that she didn't say that the project was supported by Spain. That's all she forgot to say. As for the whole project, look. We're talking here about a project that the Minister doesn't support at all. As we know, at his presentation, he said that Slovenia did not need a second track. Then, after a two-day discussion, he took the law out of his pocket and in some ways burdened taxpayers for a billion EUR 400 million in the future. If today's unwise decision by the government coalition is to be made, at least for a billion 403 million more. And I think that this price will be higher, especially because this project is so unprofessionally prepared, because colleague Žnidar has already very clearly faced the prime minister on one of the questions sent, when Prime Minister Cerar does not even multiply the price per kilometer and length of the line. 17. 5. When the signatures began to be collected, the President of the Government said that "if the referendum was to take place, this would stop the project". Dragonja said, "If 40,000 signatures are collected by the end of June, whatever the result of the referendum means that the project will no longer be successful". The Secretary of State of Lebanon, however, said that if there was a referendum, we would not get European money. Then they come to brag about 44 million and how they move on. So it's 17. 5. Lies; from the Prime Minister to a member of the administration or advisor of 2TKK to the Secretary of State they deceived the public. But when these 48 thousand signatures were collected, they act as if there was no such fact. Before that, there were some procedural issues or initiatives, when we are talking about the call for a referendum, this decision, not the second track. But I have followed this debate; only coalition members have talked about how good it is and in general and oh the project, while the government is silent. Now I don't know whether she's silent or not because she has nothing to add to it because they read so well what was written on the orange, yellow and white leaves they read before us. But in any case, it means that the coalition is confident of the exceptionality of this project. If you are confident of the exceptionality of this project, what does that mean? That means you want to share as many people as possible with potential voters. If that's what you want, most people will talk about this extraordinary project at the time of the presidential campaign, not when there is a potential for fewer people to come to the referendum, but when it comes most, then you have a million listeners provided. If this project is so remarkable – otherwise you do not tell why, but always finish with the sentence and “I believe that this project is excellent and well done and that the profession agrees”, etc. – if it is so extraordinary and if you have so many arguments in your sleeve or in your pocket or somewhere else, perhaps in your suitcase, I do not understand why you do not decide to call a referendum until you can present it to the public as large as possible and when all these exceptional speakers who have spoken today can present it directly to the voters when all 35 colleagues from SMC can go to different ends of Slovenia and present this remarkable project. Do you know what the advantage is? For the elections you performed under the poster of Mir Cerar, now you will finally be able to perform as Members in your constituency and convince people why the second track is important – if you trust in this project. But the problem is, if you don't trust this project. But if you don't trust this project, you're looking for every opportunity not to achieve what you're afraid of; to reach the quorum. At first you were sure that you would not reach the quorum for collecting signatures. You beat those who sign, you mocked them, then you threatened them. But see, 48 thousand people – those who have ever collected signatures know that this is a great success – 48 thousand people have gathered will, under all the obligations they have to go to the administration unit and sign. This is quite an important signal for this coalition. And earlier, my colleague Ranc said, when he read the letter, “we have enough of this egoism in Koroška”. We in Slovenia have a slow enough egoism of SMC and coalitions. We have slow enough egoism. Why would you run ahead of something you're not in a hurry to do at the expense of the taxpayers for two months? Why is that? Why not save 3 million euros if already the chairman of the National Election Commission tells you that this would save money and could be earmarked for another obligation: firefighters, compensation for those who have suffered damage due to Kemis at Vrhnika, etc.? You have plenty of opportunities to spend it more successfully or to avoid the damage that Zorčič's law will not tolerate because the hole in the law regarding wearing helmets in light motorized vehicles. And look, earlier Mr. Prikl said: "We work with public funds as if it were our personal resources." Well? If you do so, you will postpone the date of the referendum to that date, which is the only logical one to maximize your savings in public funds. Unless each of you is willing to give 78 000 euros, each of you 52 in a coalition of your own pocket – which one of you can afford it, and most of you believe not – just to have a boutique tailor-made date for your referendum. Otherwise, you got a lot of votes in the elections, check again. Go to the presidential elections, at the same time give a referendum and weigh. Do you know what they call those with a good project who don't hope to weigh where they weigh most? Reve. Very simple. The question whether you are man enough to hope with this project to go before the electorate or to look for bends and avoids and take advantage of the position that your number and coalition power in the government gives you to choose a date that you believe is not possible to reach the quorum for the success of the referendum. If this is a project – I think it was previously proposed by a colleague of Horvath – which is for the benefit of generations, any normal coalition, any normal government would do just that for this project development partnership, invite the entire professional public, coalition and opposition and do it together with the smallest costs. But since she didn't do it, you have a referendum. And if you have any interest in taxpayers' money and if I use Ranco's words to stop sharing, only two million of us are, let us work together; let us work together, support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and make a vote at the same time as the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word. Let Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mag be prepared. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Dr. T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not gonna fall for it whether the marriage is bad or not. I think that we have already said this enough in Levica, what are the two main points that are at stake, i.e. how to finance – this joint structure or public-public partnership with Hungary – and, of course, that this project does not have any civil control over itself and, of course, not the parliamentary one. But what should be a key issue today, of course, is the issue of date. We must probably agree on this and I will try to explain why it is appropriate to hold a referendum and a presidential election on the same day. First, we've probably heard more than once today, it's easy to save 3, maybe up to 4 million euros. And the other thing that matters in this argument is that there are actually no obstacles to doing so. So the statement that this is not possible is also heard by the President of the National Assembly, that the referendum and the presidential elections are something we cannot put to the same vote, which is totally unrealistic. [[…]] We now know that as a time limit for the implementation of the vote, the law sets at least 30 days, up to one year. This is the range in which the referendum must take place. The only difference is that if we exceed 45 days from invitation to tender to vote, this decree must be confirmed by the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority. That's the whole difference. If we all agree to save three million, make one vote on two things, I think that this two-thirds majority in this National Assembly should exist, and there is also no obstacle to the holding of presidential elections on the same date. The law provides that these too must be declared first 135 and at least 75 days before the expiry of the mandate, so that we are within these frameworks. So that it shall not exceed 90 days and less than 60 days from the date of the invitation to tender until the date of the vote. The numbers are dry, but if we put them together, we can simply put them on the same date of both the presidential elections and the vote on this referendum. We have also proposed an amendment that changes the voting date to 5 November, and this date is in line with all those dates as set out in the relevant legislation. Why is voting at the 24 September referendum a bad solution? I repeat, once again, because the $3 million or 3 million plus could be spent on something else. Probably each of us in the '90s can find one project, one reason why it would be more appropriate to spend this 3 million. And the other thing, and probably the important one, or perhaps even more important, is that we should actually consider what triggers the date on that date? The date proposed is unfair, on the one hand, to public administration employees employed by the National Election Commission, to the initiators of the referendum and, of course, to all those who will decide to participate in the campaign itself. And if we're just going to look at a list of some jobs and the relevant dates, if we do the thing that the proponents imagined. A competent electoral commission shall notify the Gurs voter area no later than seven days after the invitation to tender. It's still kind of O.K. because this date is then 13. Seven. Then it's till 4:00. 7. Political parties will have to make proposals for electoral committees. Gurs will then have to coordinate the constituencies within 14 days of the call and we are already on 20 July. The Ministry must draw up electoral directories 20 days after the call and we are already in the middle of summer holidays on 26 July. The campaign starts 30 days before the day of the vote, and this date is August 25. The organisers of the referendum campaign must then notify the organiser, open the TRR and, of course, everything connected to it 25 days before the day of the vote. This is August 31st. Also, on 31 August, media publishers should prepare and publish the rules for the use of programming time. And still, on August 31st – the local communities must publish the conditions for obtaining the right to use these public posters until the end of August. These are some examples that clearly indicate that this stubborn insistence of the President of the National Assembly and the ruling coalition – or if you want to translate, the motioner of the decree, that is, the official Infrastructure Committee – will be launched in the middle of the summer vacations, which will make it impossible for employees to go on vacation if I say so easily. And not just the employees. The DVK, the electoral commissions, will have to be called committees and anything that comes along. And apparently, the government doesn't care about the coalition, because, of course, it's not about the MPs or the ministers. But there are people who will have to work for it in the middle of the summer. And here's another question that's completely in place, and I'd like to get an answer from someone. ZRLI provides that at the time of 15. 7. to 1. 9. All hands are still. So, referendums don't run at this time. So I'm just wondering, specifically, how can the campaign start on August 25th? Because that's exactly the date in the middle of this restroom. And here I would like to recall three other important decisions of the Constitutional Court, which clearly state in all three of them when it is possible not only to vote, but also how it is necessary to ensure that citizens and citizens or voters are informed and informed of the law on which the vote is to be taken. These are, not the number of decisions, but the first one says that interconnecting a referendum and election campaign into anything threatens electoral rights. So what the President of the National Assembly has said is that it is two too important topics to vote on together is directly contrary to the arguments set out in Decision U-I-304/96 in paragraph 9 of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, the Constitutional Court states that the purpose of the deadlines and procedural rules in the ZRLI is also to set the vote on a date which allows for a rational and cost-effective implementation of the referendum. So, at the same time as the elections or outside the period of longer holidays, holidays and so on. Decision of the Constitutional Court of U-I-279/96 in paragraph 17. In fact, the Constitutional Court also proposes this same argument, in order to rationalise these votes and put them on similar dates. And for the third time. The Constitutional Court also points out the requirement to establish rules and ensure their application in a manner that will allow for a fair referendum procedure for the exercise of voting rights in a referendum, and, of course, those who participate in the campaign, as well as those who are initiators or proponents, could do so outside the summer holidays. So I think there are three more questions on the table and the answers actually offer us exactly these three decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have already annulled several past rulings for similar reasons. We need to know that, too. The first question is whether, contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, it is alleged that the referendum and election campaign are intertwined. The answer is yes. Secondly, whether it is more prudent and rational to decide both matters on the same day in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The answer is yes. And for the third time, or the date on which the campaign will start during summer holidays, contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And that answer is yes. Thus, the only appropriate solution is to set a date corresponding to this or to ensure that the referendum and elections for the President of the Republic of Slovenia are held on the same day. And 5 November 2017 is the most appropriate date because it allows respect for all the deadlines that I have previously listed – both for the referendum on the one hand and for the presidential elections on the other. It allows employees to take advantage of the right to annual leave, saves around €3 million and allows all jobs and campaigns to take place outside summer vacations, i.e. outside the period of retirement, as set out in the Referendum Act and on the People's Initiative. Just at the edge, you might want to think about it. I do not know how the implementation of the arbitration agreement will take place, but there will probably be major complications or difficulties in determining voters and so on. We also need to keep this in mind for a while or for a month or so. And in the end, what it is, I think it's urgent or must be rejected. We have heard that we need this law as soon as possible, so it must come to the referendum as soon as possible, because in fact we must continue this project. The government is already going on, say, a blinding call in July when the law will not, although it has always insisted that it needs a law for such and different activities around the second track project. In fact, this situation in which we are in the wake of the referendum initiative shows only that the government is bluffing all the time. It bluffs about why the 2TKK law was needed, why the second track law was needed and so on. This bluff's coming out. The fact that part of the funds has already been provided, the fact that it will take place again, or that it will apply in spite of everything on the call for proposals in July, clearly shows that we do not need such a simple law in such a form. If there is no other solution if the Government or the coalition does not want to weigh, as Dr Logar said, at the same time as the date of the presidential elections, that is, when it is likely that participation in this vote would be high enough to achieve the quorum that is required, it is probably right that this law falls. We are proposing and this was in part also an explanation of our amendment to simply accept this rational solution. And this is that the vote on both the referendum and the presidential elections is held on the same date and, of course, resolves a whole range of issues not only of a financial nature but also of allowing greater participation of people in this vote. After all, it's a marriage that's important. It is important in that at least a few points it is harmful, also financially harmful to the State, so that, as it is said, people are to be sure that such a law is adopted or, say, to take into account any modifications to this government plan. In the first place, of course, what we have already proposed in Levica is to eliminate Hungary. Today we have heard that it is now final for Hungary and not for frozen capital. On the other hand, to establish appropriate civilian or professional supervision of this project, as confirmed by the National Assembly and, of course, to have appropriate vigilance over such a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Badass.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow Members! I'm going to go back a little bit to my colleague Horvath's debate when he was talking about a civil initiative and that it was a people. Certainly, because we were actually elected by Members of Parliament, and as Members we are obliged to lead things in the country by working for the people. Of course, I would mention that in the past I have been involved in an important project for Koroška – the third development axis – and there we have just faced two types of civil initiatives. One civil initiative was to build, and the other was, of course, against construction. But somehow we succeeded, I would say to some extent for sure, because yesterday an important protocol was signed on the construction of the third development axis from Šentrupert through Velenje to Slovenj Gradac, which is an important matter for the future, and that this is a well done work of the current government and, of course, of the current Minister Dr. Gasperšič. In this project, we have met with him many times in various debates, arrangements, meetings, meetings, and I must say that I trust the Minister very much. So, of course, today, when there's some kind of debate on the second track, this is another area for me, of course, I'm talking about a referendum that I don't think is necessary for this matter. [[...]] Of course, if it has to be, that's how it's decided now, but it has to be as soon as possible. And I'm for that term that's kind of already been mentioned: September 24th. Why? To resolve this matter as soon as possible, because this second track is strategically important for Slovenia. Of course, I must also mention that a while ago, a while ago, of course, the interpretation was against Mr Gasperšič; at that time, it was clear to him that he was too slow to build a second track. Very interesting. Once they're against, once for. But this seems normal in the National Assembly, normal to work between the opposition and, of course, government or coalition. Today, we are also talking about the costs of the referendum to reduce these costs in order to bring these referendums together. I would also mention that those who proposed this referendum — as I said — is not necessary, I think — must ask themselves, and before they proposed, they probably knew that this referendum would be worth something, and that this probably is not good for Slovenia, too. It should be stressed that, in order to build a second track, much has already been done, that, in fact, the route is very old, nothing has changed since Janša's government, that various preparatory works have already been done. It is simply important to stress that this project is important for Slovenia and that we need to complete it. Why? For whom, in fact, is this second track important? Surely for the Slovenian port; now that we have this somehow allocated sea or open sea exit, this port will be even more important in the future. The second track is important for Slovenian railways, for the Slovenian economy, because of course everything here is actually driving. Well, when I'm driving from Koroška, I see containers, trucks, driving in the direction of Kopra, and I'm sure that part of Divaca to Kopra will relax and it will actually be safer and, of course, it's also very important for that part of tourism when we know that it's very important on that part. Of course, Hungary was also mentioned. Hungary is also committed to this and is also prepared to invest in the financing of the second track. Let's say it's 200 million. And why not? For they have the goal of reaching the port, and of course they also have the goal of the corridor to continue into the world. This is totally normal in Europe. If we do not cooperate, how will Europe function? Of course, some resources will still need to be collected, but of course things will continue here. It is important that we have all the necessary consensus in the construction of this second track, we have the building permit defined, as I said, as financial resources — at least to some extent — and the estimated value is somehow below a billion euros. One day, I don't know, I hear it's about a billion 700. I haven't actually heard these things, but it's less than a billion euros. What else is important here? That this connection between the Divača-Koper will be two-tier. I mentioned earlier that this part will, of course, be much safer and that it will also be important for this area of tourism, which is very widespread in this part of Slovenia. And what is very important about this work, which we must not forget is that Europe's message that the second track project is well prepared and that it is important for Europe. This, of course, is also an important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. We've been hearing about very different numbers all day, and it's just that the predecessor was talking about hearing for the first time about 1.7 billion euros. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I would like to ask you as one of the leaders of this meeting to give the text prepared by 2TKK, which clearly shows the number 1.7 and several million. [[advertising from the hall]] Billions of euros. In order not to make a vague decision on the figures, Members will then negotiate three or six million euros to be spent on this budget and, in the meantime, they will forget the difference between the promised slightly less than 800 million euros that the President of the Government has advocated here and the number that the Member has prepared for the company that is supposed to build this notorious second track, which speaks, once again, more than 1.7 billion estimated project values. So, Mr Vice President, we have almost two hours at our disposal. I propose that the expert services of the National Assembly provide and distribute this paper to Members so that we do not talk about how we do not know how different the numbers are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'll wait for these numbers for Dr. Gaspersich's minister, and then we'll see what we're in, what we know and what we don't know that we don't have a problem with the truth. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u58	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State! There are so many open questions that we are actually waiting again for the Minister and the Secretary of State to answer all these questions and all these unresolved questions, which are really huge. 1.7 billion; this is a document that was given to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission – then done by Mr Dragonja – showing all the costs. In fact, this is where funding costs, such as credit costs and so on, must also be counted. But I agree with my colleague Škodnik on something: that this referendum would not be necessary if it were not – and this is what I am now adding – he did not say this – to this law. If it wasn't for this marriage. And for 27 kilometers of one track; indeed, ladies and gentlemen, do we need some kind of law? We have 1,000 miles of track in the country. Do you know how many laws we need to build if this coalition works? There are about 40 other such laws. That we'd have a marriage 27 kilometers away! So wait, is there anyone here making a fool out of this? Railroad, Luka Koper and so on, they're investors. One way or another. The country can also join, as they are also state-owned companies. And if we did not have this law, the railway would probably be built one way or another if certain questions were resolved. There is something financial that today varies between 700 million and a billion 700 million; another is technical; this is very little talk about technical matters. And where does this number actually come from, in fact, a billion 700? Civil initiative talks about the appendix, talks about the track and tunnels, which will be 22 kilometres from the 27 km track. Whether it's rational or not, I don't know. After the difficult and troublesome karst terrain, it is, of course, about a railway that is to travel 160 kilometers an hour, trains along it for up to 160 kilometers an hour. [[...]] For what? For bananas? What about lemons that will be transported from here and maybe some cars? Do we need such a project, technically? Of course, there is talk of the OECD study, see, which wrote that this project does not come out economically and financially at all, and this study is somewhere in drawers. You may even get it online if you try very hard or if you ask someone from the OECD to send it to you. This project shall not take place without the additional duties provided for in this Act. Never. That's what the OECD study said. And this money that goes into infinity will be paid by Slovenian taxpayers. In an indirect way, the respected minister, through various duties, will also pay this to rail users, but the users will transfer it to the final price of lemons in the store. Rest assured, the transfer of prices; perhaps not the first six months, but certainly all the following months and all the following years – 45 years of concession – this will actually happen. In the end, citizens and citizens will pay for everything. And you're sensitive to that. And today is a referendum on whether citizens and citizens are willing to finance such a mega-man, technical and financially incomplete project. And look, the government side and the coalition were very skeptical that they would be able to get 40,000 signatures, and they did. And this coalition was very sceptical about whether it would reach a quorum at the referendum on the Family Code in 2015. But he did, and he fell under this coalition, and now he's gonna have to weigh himself. It will now be necessary to determine at this referendum whether this government is still capable and whether it still has sufficient support in these citizens and citizens. You know, every referendum is also a referendum on government. Not just the second track, but the government. And now I understand in some way the strategy of this government, which they said, "no, September, it is necessary to have a referendum as soon as possible". And you think that people, I'm going to say, are so uninformed and maybe so blind that they're going to believe that they're going to be paying for this out of their pockets today at 700 billion? There's probably going to be some kind of annex at every chapel to be found and every cave in Crassus, and it's going to go in, of course, some say 3.4 billion. It'll come out of their pockets. They're not. They are not, therefore I believe that even if the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is not adopted, that date is postponed and that, together with the presidential elections, the referendum will fall and the quorum will actually be reached. People aren't stupid enough to pay for a mega-Romanian project that much money. And you can be skeptical, but this is where you're actually going to weigh yourself. Be assured, this is a referendum on the second track and a referendum on this government, whether it still has people's support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mr Luka Mesec for half a minute. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, of course, we are talking mainly about the decision, but there is no way that the broad debate can go away from the decision itself, but we are talking about the referendum all the time. This is also what my predecessor drew very well, although his client colleague reminded him that, in fact, only these types talk about all other things, only about the decree. However, a couple of things were interesting, but in particular very focused and very clear with one purpose: to show now I heard a new one that had made him entangled, but this is that the referendum is now some kind of confidant or non-truster to the Government, and this is exactly one of the reasons why we have to go to the referendum – because we have to weigh and weigh on. [[…]] If that were true, then we would have read the request, including the reasons for collecting voter and electorate signatures, why they actually decided to request this referendum. And I have to say, I didn't see that in there. But I've noticed a number of statements and insults saying that I don't say everything else. That is why, of course, one of the main reasons we need to mention when we discuss this too I must say that I was very happy at first, because I saw the main initiator who organized the signature gathering here, Mr Willi Kovacic – I hope that at least where he is sitting, because I will also talk about him. [[…]] Especially because it's tied to this referendum alone. Personally, I don't know him, except that I saw him on the board a few times, like the viewer up here on the balcony and the media when I was listening to something he was actually discussing. I have to say, O.K., I'm gonna let this part go, I'm gonna skip, and I'm gonna get to the point. [[…]] I must say that what is, of course, a special Mr Vila Kovacič Namreč, we are always talking about civil initiative and about citizens and citizens. This is a very important question. But you remember that this same gentleman once collected signatures; not just for one referendum, for several referendums. And it is interesting when he collected signatures for the so-called TES – which is why, by the way, an investigative committee run today, led by a member of the Levica Group, Mr Hanžek, and today we are all disgusted and wondering how this could have occurred – I must say, in fact, that those who took the initiative to collect signatures in this referendum did not then enter the collection of these signatures and these actions. Interesting. We're talking about an SDS client. So some correlations are very important. Indeed, Mr Willi Kovacič is not exactly a reference to talk about the fact that when he decides to do so, he will collect signatures. Something else has to happen. When the SDS Party decides to collect signatures, approaches to a civil initiative, a representative of a civil initiative, and then works in a coat change, what has actually been disabled by the Constitution. You all know that we changed the constitution precisely because we had here a flood of some referendums on the proposal and initiative of the SDS party. And since this is now disabled, we now have a new trick to bring the story to the referendum through civil society. I myself looked at one or two stands, what, in fact, were the signatures collected under what passwords. Excuse me, you mentioned the following sentences in your interview or in your discussions. Here, half of the Members do not understand why it is actually about this law, let alone the common people, that we do not talk about how citizens and citizens have signed on these stand where there has been slander about the nonsense itself. I'll give you an example: "We don't want another TER 6, the second track is equal to TER 6." Excuse me, TER 6 will never be the same as another track unless, of course, it will be done in the same way as TER 6. “THE 6 didn’t have his own marriage.” It is true, as Mr Šircelj points out, and that is why he sailed to where he sailed, and because by the way, they could have made all the decisions they wanted. The second indent has a law that prevents this possibility that, of course, everyone can at any time decide when and how to invest. Secondly, TER 6 is financed by money that will eventually be covered by taxpayers, even on the basis of a guarantee, since TER 6 had a guarantee law that only 19 Members, by the way, accepted and confirmed. Only 19 Members! So much for some here explaining that they want to have the oversight function of the National Assembly. I'm sorry, this national council has accepted the goathouse. What a supervisory function he performed if he accepted the goat!? And the other thing that's even more important is, of course, that the law determines what was the problem with the adoption of the law. On the SDS side, they kept talking, "which jerk writes down the building permit number in the law?" As they said, “if you change and make two tracks, you will change the law to change the building permit number”. They didn't even think that you could change your building permit with the same number and make two tracks or two tunnels, which was the main problem. And since this problem was falling apart, another problem suddenly arose. How the hell do you stop the whole story? And they found this unfortunate Mr. Willi Kovacic, who not only took part in TEŠ 6, but then the SDS did not want to help him and the slaughterhouse ended up with this story, even the court made it clear to him that he did not respect signatures or signatures were not perfect, as the law did. And more than that, we all remember him when, in changing the constitution, exactly the constitution in this part of what I was saying, he actually demonstrated here in front of the National Assembly, and even the President of the National Assembly himself had to give him clear instructions that he could no longer attend the boards, because Burke would simply not run anymore. We used to watch him up here with a mask because he wanted to report something to the National Assembly. Well, then, of course, another thing we're talking about all the time is important. In fact, in this referendum, the moment the SDS joined the action and launched its machinery across Slovenia, so that Vili Kovacic could otherwise offend people through the media, of course this campaign was under way, there was an immediately-known rhetoric that the SDS must always bring into the referendum. We have even listened to crazy things and statements such as: “It is not John Janša’s fault for the arms affair, but it is Kučan.” I mean, but you know, in all this mix and nonsense, of course it is, and not least, lying At the final stage in this country, we know who had the problems and who the investigative commissions were for. [[...]] And what did they actually find? That, of course, they collected these 40,000 signatures more easily. But now it's what it is. More than 40,000 signatures have been collected. And today listen to some moralization, “the voice of the people, it is the people who have authority, for God's sake, listen to the people!” as I listened to my fellow Horvath. And I must say I'm terribly disappointed that either she doesn't know the laws or she's getting ready to run for president of the country, and here she is holding a state's position on how to listen to people. Excuse me, the constitution and the law make it very clear who, when and how he must collect the signatures and, of course, he must then carry out and carry out the referendum. Today, this is prescribed by law, what we do, and not as Mrs. Ludmila says, "What do we have here to discuss?" Yeah, we need to discuss it because we need to take a decision! And there is no discussion here, and no one doubts whether or not there will be a referendum. Now we only have one small problem called the date of the referendum. Well, then, of course, I'm listening to a colleague from the Left who's explaining to me how many constitutional decisions have been taken that say that you can't do anything while you're at it, I don't know what to do and so on. My friend, I know you've read this, and I also know that you have a fine professional job that has warned you of these decrees, but I have these decrees before me. Let us read very clearly what the Constitutional Court has actually written. I'll quote so there won't be any misunderstandings later that I added something. Under the 22nd paragraph of the decision, it is said that when we had this unfortunate referendum, which was again triggered by SDS under the cover of a civil initiative, through signatures which are still questionable today, because later in Novi Gorica they were found in stock, and we still do not know exactly what was happening at the time, among other things, the Constitutional Court stated that it was the intention of the legislator, “that on holiday or vacation days the deadlines do not run in relation to referendums, stems from the first paragraph of Article 16a of the Referendum Act and of the People's Initiative, which provides,” the hearing, “the deadline for collecting voters' signatures to support the request for a referendum”. This is what the Constitutional Court is talking about. Or in our own words — those who do not understand or do not want to understand — when we collect signatures, we cannot set a time and date during vacations, since it is clear that you will not get people then and be able to persuade them. But don't talk about you not having a referendum at this time, of course, except in this case, when it made it very clear that people should go on vacation and then come home and make a decision. And that's why the date was postponed at the time, and you know that very well, and so do they, so they don't discuss it at all. And more importantly, the referendum is not during vacations, but if you are going on vacation at this time as a referendum has been called, but I have a serious problem because at that time it is already doing the National Assembly, not with the fairs, but with all the other things. But in the final stage, the messenger can do whatever he wants, and you do what you want. Let me finish this slowly. What is important to me; you are always talking about this famous proposal or discussion that Mr Logar spoke about. And he said, "Throw it away!" “A you’re poor”, according to your own words. “Go and be weighed!” Well, you know, the referendum is not for weighing, the referendum is for a decision that is clearly marked by a referendum question that has been put before voters. Then he says what is more important and what people like: "3 million will we throw away or not, do we care or not?" Of course, we're gonna cut our ears here a little bit. Who's got $3 million like this? It would be logical for us to make a set of presidential and referendum decisions. No, we're not giving them together, and I'll tell you why. Democracy is not a joke. You want to go to democracy? Go on, you'll just pay for it and you'll answer to those for whom you, of course, also set up a referendum. Do we want to make a decision? Why wait a year, why wait for the presidential elections, let's make a decision right away. Because I'm gonna tell you how much this decision costs. This decision costs, by the way, not only 3 million, because when it is decided – if it is decided and I hope and I am sure it will not be decided – it will, of course, be clear in advance that it costs between 80 million and 100 million of the money that we will not get then. And what does that mean? Do you think Europe is not watching what we are doing here? You think they're doing this: There's a small Slovenia, self-sufficient, they're going to screw something up. Sorry, for the first time in a serious project, there is the possibility that taxpayers will pay less and not more, as in the TEM 6 you like to use. And that's because we have a marriage, not because we don't have one. And that's your basic problem. I'm willing to listen to all the obvious, because in the final stage I admit, hand to heart, in fact I'm not telling you at all. Because I can tell you what I want to tell you today, I can make you a video, and in the end, you still won't be so sure about it, because it's only one thing that matters to you, and this is a referendum. You are for the second track, you keep repeating this as a broken record: “We are.” But you know, it's just as much to me as it is to say that I have nothing against Gypsies, but not in my own backyard. But in fact, you have another problem. You're for the second track, but not under this government. For another touch under another government. It's just, my dears, then it'll be much more expensive, much more expensive. And one more thing I have learned is that it remains permanent for a while. And if we temporarily stop the project, we stopped it permanently in this country. I don't know who's gonna pay for that because you like to rely on money. Maybe you, I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u62	Yes, I was expecting this trip from my colleague, Möderndorfer. Usually he does it, gets one piece out of the whole context, and forgets the other thing. The start date of the campaign is 25. 8. The decision that you quoted earlier also refers, of course, to the Constitutional Court, but here we must read two articles at the same time, 33 and 16.a. And this Article 16a accurately states that the campaign must not fall during the holidays or this summer. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u64	I think my colleague Möderndorfer misunderstood me or got one vote from somewhere else who told him something and thought I told him. In my debate, I did not use the word TES 6. He says, I quote: “THE 6 did not have his own marriage, as the Magus had stated. Spreadel.’ And so on. I TES 6 did not mention in my discussion. I only mentioned the second track. Moreover, because I have actually mentioned that the referendum can also mean a non-trust to the Government. Yes, that is understood by every politician, or at least by anyone who is a politician, in my opinion. But if he doesn't understand politics, it's very bad, but if he doesn't understand the one who should go politics just like that, then I don't think he has anything to do with politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go. Excuse me, Dr. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u66	Thank you, Chairman. Well, now I must be pleased to find that there is at least someone in the SMC Group who spoke out of his head, so that he did not read from the note, but he also misunderstood me. I didn't say that coalition was poor or that they were poor. I said that's what they call poor people who don't want to and don't hope to weigh. In this respect, if it is operated with the words of the debaters, the debater should be corrected in this respect. Speaking of which, we have now come to this point; Mr Möderndorfer said, "democracy costs something". So, democracy? la carte SMC, how much? 1.7 billion euros. And that's the price that taxpayers pay because they've given this party the dominant position in the country, so the cost of this mandate is 1.7 billion euros. Look, we've already put €1.5 billion in the New Ljubljana Bank, which we're investigating. And I think it's a little too much cost to give an extra billion, a billion and a half for each customer, ad hoc established for one term. Let's just say, guys, stop playing with the taxpayer's money. As Mr Prikl said, “behave as if it were your money”. And let's start acting like it's our common money once and for all, and don't spend it so much that another project TEŠ 6 Now, in view of the debate, I really hope to argue that you're so stubborn with this project for one reason: to open up small taxpayers' money so that you can have a policy that they've been carrying out for a while in banks, some time in some other organization – where today one of them is being interrogated in an investigative commission – and now apparently all of them are being watched through some special law. [[…]] There is no price for democracy EUR 1.7 billion for SMC. The price of democracy is to respect people's will. The will of the people was clearly expressed; 48 thousand people said, "not so fast to such an unprepared law, let's sit down, let's think about going to a referendum, find out if the matter is right and do it when it is the most expensive for taxpayers, so when the presidential elections are held".
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I have to say, I had a little laugh today about all the things I've been listening to. Some of the debates were true, I'll say, in place, they were substantive, and some of them were not at all part of this National Assembly. Especially those who discuss topics that do not even know what they are talking about. And that's what I think is probably not a Slovenian and a Slovenian. I used to listen to you, us, you, us. More and more, I must say that I am getting disappointed in this National Assembly, because we are only sitting 90 Members and Members and I must listen: We, you. Who are we and who are you? Or who are you? Let someone explain to me once whether Slovenians and Slovenians voted in favour of Members and Members – for ours and yours – or whether they voted in favour of helping all together to solve people's problems. And I would ask those debaters in the SMC who abuse and constantly try to break up Slovenian politics in a way that divides them into yours and ours to stop it. Let them stop because today we are talking about the content that touches every individual who lives in this adulterous country of Slovenia. Too much money has been stolen, too much, essentially too much to ever let that happen again. Just look at subsystems, such as health care, etc., where billions, billions of EUR 200 million disappear into private pockets. And we will no longer allow ourselves to do so, Slovenia and Slovenians! And look, dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are not afraid of electives and voters, we are not afraid of our citizens and citizens. I collected the signatures on my own at the administrative unit, but I didn't force anything on people. So people aren't as stupid as they wanted to say today that we convinced them. But people came themselves to say what I could sign, because the shit that got ready and the way this story was going, even here in the National Assembly, through the votes of the coalition, SMC, SD and Desus, to prevent it. And we have to stop it. And I'm sure that voters and voters, don't worry, despite all the ways you're trying to prevent us from reaching a quorum in the referendum so that we can succeed. We've already done it, and we will. But not because we share ours and yours, but because Slovenian citizens and citizens are aware of the importance of what we are talking about today. Do you have any idea what a billion 700 means? Do you have any idea what that means? What does that mean for taxpayers' pockets? What does this mean for those who receive pensions that are due to this I don't know how many euros less a pension? What's going on with those poor workers who went with their belly to Austria for bread, and now this country is taking that part of their income, instead of helping them because they went out to find another job to find that they're not here at the employment office. There they collect this money to these poor people who have gone with their stomachs for bread, they're looking to survive their families, and here we don't care for a billion 700! And the other thing that's crucial. Today we are talking about a date because we have the possibility that this story could go along with the presidential elections. No! No! We again steal 3 million euros directly from the taxpayer's pockets. Who has the right, tell me who? Which one of you sitting here from the coalition has that right? He illegally steals money from people in his pocket. It's legal. We will no longer allow this Slovenian taxpayer, I tell you. And we're not going to split into SDS, I don't know which one, anyone. Those who have an honest conscience, which we are honest people, who are about the Slovenian people, who are about people, must come together, no matter what. And I call upon the entire Slovenian public, please, to call on the entire Slovenian public, those who are struggling to break through from day to day, saying, pensioners, unemployed, all those on the threshold of poverty – 30% of them – to go to this referendum and once say stop places. Why don't I have a regular salary at the Employment Service or those people on the minimum wage to spend the month? Of course, they can't if we steal everything that's possible in this way. I'm sorry, I'm certainly not among them, but it's a shame that you're going this way, with such a fraud, to steal 3 million euros from taxpayers' pockets again. That's unacceptable! And in advance, you know that we could solve this problem more easily and not just, I'll say, human. We would prove that we are willing to do everything in our power to keep as much money as possible in the pockets of our taxpayers. And you have every opportunity today when the coalition decides on this decision, whether the referendum will take place when the presidential elections are held or not. And show me how much you have, so I won't say anything. Look, dear colleagues, colleagues, I'm going to read you two sentences, which one lady wrote today, Simona Toplak, look at this. And I warned the government coalition four, five months ago, and then I said, "The moment of truth will come, and only then will you see that Slovenian voters and voters are extremely viewed, extremely viewed, will prove to you in the elections what I said, and you must be afraid of that." And look what it says here: “It’s terrible how much Miro Cerar fears voters. Miro Cerar is that politician, that president of the government, and that constitutional lawyer who hangs the most on behalf of the people. This will prove if the coalition that leads it decides that the referendum on the second track will not be held on the day of the presidential elections. Mira Cerar, politics, is a terrible fear of voters." That's what this lady wrote down today. Let your dear colleague and colleague think about what she wrote. They're not ignorant people, they're a journalist who knows things. And what a coalition you are to fear your own people, your own electorates and voters, your own citizens and citizens!? When I was at the Administrative Unit in the Poet, people were very happy to meet me, to see me, to shake hands with me, to tell me a thousand and one problem they were facing, and who also told me that they never want to hear about Cerar and his team again in dreams, to be ashamed of being elected to Parliament by people who can't read anything but five sentences. And people see it, people aren't stupid, don't underestimate them, and don't say that people now won't understand that the government and this coalition, if there's a referendum on this date, as is now proposed in the decision to steal 3 million euros from their pockets. People know it, people know it, believe me. That's what I'm saying because I live between those people and where I don't even have the Internet. I haven't got a phone signal for three weeks now, and I'm a member of the National Assembly for the fourth term! Shamefully, in a country we live in, shame on those who should respond. And Mr Minister, on Monday you will also get the oral question that a Member of the National Assembly does not have access to the Internet. He doesn't have access to a phone signal that I've been driving for three kilometers so I can get a phone signal. Please, what a minister, what a government you are!? In this way you will not prove what you have to prove, and what people expected from the most ethical government of Mir Cerar. You've proven that now. Now we see what you're doing. Stealing the money from the people in your pocket again, and for you, it's 3 million like it's nothing. It's like nothing happened, like it was one cent. But the poor people get a pension of €320 or 280, so I don't talk. A third of people on a minimum salary of 650 euros, and you're making fun of this place and stealing money like that. It's a legal place, it's a legal place, it's a lot of shit, a lot of shame that no one in this national council can afford. And so I warn you, once again, I call upon the Slovenian people to end this. In this referendum, let him show what needs to be done and say: We must end the rabbis; if you are responsible, do not do so, but we, the Slovenian people, will do so. And believe me, the quorum will be reached, this law will fall, I guarantee you. Remember my words, go write to yourselves, but you can do whatever you want; the people have you full of suitcases!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Dr Dragan Matić. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u70	I confess that I have sinned in my thoughts, words and actions, left much good and done much bad. So, Marian, forgive me for telling you, look, you've told me everything, it's all my fault. I'm guilty of shining the sun today and shining the lights. What can I say?Oh, my God! I've done as bad in three years as you couldn't in four terms, but that's right. Life is ugly, you have nothing. I like it when these established politicians somehow tell me what I've done wrong in three years, but they've been here for 25 years and they're suddenly such guardians and guardians of this budget that I'd rather go away because I see what it is. [[…]] But look, this policy, we're all here, it's us. We make that policy. And now, if we're talking specifically about this thing, about this unfortunate second track, we've been banalizing it and reinventing it in such a way that no one believes anything anymore, and at the same time we've all become sovereign experts for everyone. We have so many referendums now, it's another one. How it came to be — whether the minister, the government, was awkward, everyone. Maybe everything's possible here. But now I would suggest to Willy and the team, say, this so-called "civil initiative" under the SDS tactics to make another few referendums. So if we're already doing a referendum, let's do a referendum if we want to make progress, yes or no. Referendum, if we want a majority system where one party will be – of course the one who can rule in this Slovenia is the only one! The others don't know anything. Do we want to have a referendum against the sun shining or not? Do we want to have a referendum against windmills because we are against everything? Do we want to have a referendum against trucks taking roads? We can do that, too. Or to set up Novo24 as the main national television, because they are the only ones who speak the right and the only ones who speak the salvation. Or if we're talking about an arbitration because it's bad, because now we find it suddenly bad. Okay, that's all. I don't have a problem with that. But I do have a problem with people coming in 5 before the 12th and remembering some new stuff about how to solve the second track. Whether it's a "zalka" or whether it's some kind of triple, four, five tunnels, and the idea of Jazbinska, and now I wonder, because I'm so stupid – 25 years old, and no one remembered until this moment when something moved, nothing remembered. [[…]] Okay, that, too. And if I draw a line, as Slavko Ivančič would say – not the one that some people are pulling – I understand that we would otherwise want a second track, but here are three darts. [[…]] These three dots come because in fact we are absolutely against everything, absolutely, because this and this dedicated party or this side, whatever we want to say, has not proposed. And then, of course, we say that this is all one simple way of showing our smallness, our limitedness, our unanimity, our statehood, however you want. But it doesn't matter anyway. It's important that we get killed by a cow, that we fight and move around here, and we're gonna have a good time jokin' as we do yodeling, and the future is as it is. And then here in a moment this conspiracy theory can also occur; that we have forces here within Slovenia that are absolutely against development – against the second track, against everything. But for the benefit of who? Other neighbours – Italians, Croats who applaud us here and wave their hands at how well we fight each other. Things are going. For 25 years, this debate has been going on, endless brainstorming down. When I came down, when people in Luka Koper asked me, they said, "Okay, what are you? We are making strategic plans for 20-30 years in advance and we do not yet have one concrete answer, whether we want to have another track or not. What do you want? I don't know. Now some say they only ride bananas. No, they're not just bananas. It drives all the fuel that is needed, other all the raw materials that are needed. And not just for us, 70% is for foreigners. And it's never gonna be enough! It's never gonna be enough! This debate will never be over! The price is not O.K., the project is not O.K., the route is not O.K., the finances are not O.K., but the debate is a billion and a half. And to be even more absurd, this state-owned DPN and the route was given during this SDS and the Willi Kovac initiative – what is already, I don't know – and then it was given and nicely this and also Minister Cernac said that there was a billion 300. [[…]] Now this billion 300 is no longer good, because we are now below a billion. No, but now we've found that number billion 700, and now we're on. Now we're like that: yes, but it isn't, and it is. Man always wonders what we've done these 25 years. Nothing! Finally something's moved. It took me not to say how long. That's it. Which I've already got full of not saying anything. That everything is perfect both in this marriage and at that, it's not. But it's always easy to criticize, tease, throw pollen. That's it, our theme, soup, let's move on. And after a person starts asking questions about these costs and I don't know what, left-right Ma doesn't matter what the former director says about Luke's Eminence – says Mr. Korelič – when he says that it's okay and that it's necessary to move on, which is not. [[...]] That railroaders, even Esdees' railways, are careful, they say they support all these things. Not to mention "locals". No, we're smart and we say no. No, that doesn't apply. Okay. Let's move on. And when we come to find out what the point is, when a person starts to think, it's good what it is now, all these bruises and what it will be, and it won't be, why they would object. In fact, we find that this is a purely political game. If I look only at my local environment, we have a mayor with a big p who's moving. Today's for, tomorrow's against. And to the country, let's say, on a national level, when we have Villa Kovacic and at the back of the SDS and playing the game of power, who will be stronger, who won't. It's simply political prestige and nothing else. However, it is a shame that the economy is already doing, because we are here endlessly debating that we have endless debates, I don't know how many times we have had them in this mandate, but probably in those previous ones – Marian probably knows because he already had a mandate four times – yes, then there must have been quite a few of these debates on it. [[...]] The economy, Luka, nothing, it doesn't matter. Well, they're trying their best, but 25 years have passed and they're waiting, and Luke's just waiting for someone to have mercy on her. I don't know if the Mother of God will come from heaven and say, "Here, now it's going to be the second track." He won't. That's not how it's gonna be. And now, as Jani said before, when Horvat speaks a little melodramatically, cynically, I don't know what, I think it's funny. And then we have today's e-mail that our friend Willy sent us. The call, which sounds almost like one threat to Members who will not make the right decision, "we will put you publicly on the pranger so that you will blame and answer." Yeah, I will, I'll answer, I'm fine. I've always been responsible for every single thing I've ever done, and I'm going to be responsible now. There's no problem. It's just, people of God, let's just let it go once. If we have decided that this referendum, which is legitimate, right and saving, should be. The date will be as soon as possible to get rid of it once, to save it, whether this marriage sucks or not, let's save it, let's decide, and then we'll see who wins, wins, and we'll fasten our medals. But look, let's be statescapable once. Let's be once, like our neighbours Croats, who sometimes we don't like, but when they are united, they move mountains. We were united in 1991 so strongly that we destroyed everything and scared everyone. Can't we really start being like this for once? Let's stop looking so narrow, let's stop being you, I'll say, sealers who just see here, what's next to the neighbor and great that his cow dies, not everything else. Let's be true for once, I'll say, people and let's say, let's do this referendum now, O.K., it happened because of these and those circumstances, it wasn't just the government's fault, it was a lot, but let's do it. Let's solve it. Now we want to do this, let's do this. And if I'm done. When you're talking about bringing these together, because I say, presidential elections and this referendum – we don't even have a scheduled date for the presidential elections. And if we count July, August, September, October, November if it's November, it's been five months. So we're going to lose another five months for this, and we're going to lose a variety of calls for that, too, at the expense of these games. No need. So we can decide something else, which we'd decide on, because otherwise we're in, but we wouldn't be in. Come on, people of God, stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u71	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, President. I must say, this was a very interesting debate from my colleague Mark Ferruga. Dramatic and, above all, you will experience it. I understand him, the Primorec is experiencing daily pressures from the local population, but it bothered me when he said, "What have we done in 25 years?" Mr. Ferruga, we've made a country [[advertising from the hall]] or those who sat before us here made it. I speak for the Slovenes. I'm saying, look, there's a door, you can go out there if you can't listen. [[advertising from the hall]] . The arbitration that she's bad, he said, everything's bad. That arbitration was bad, Prime Minister Miro Cerar spoke when he spoke as a lawyer. Now he's changed his mind. The Slovenian Democratic Party is here constantly in the same position. He talked about what kind of referendums we wish there was no progress and so on. But this today is just proof that this project is important. However, it is important for further not political but financial survival primarily SMC and those associated with this project called SMC. It is, as has been said many times, how important TES 6 was to the financial survival of certain networks, we can say that — and this here today is evidence — this second track is important for the survival of a SMC party or those associated with a customer, especially in a financial sense. I agree when colleague Möderndorfer said "democracy costs". Of course, it costs money and the referendum is a direct democracy, but it costs money. But the key question is how much it costs or if we can reduce the cost, why not reduce it. And here we talk like three million is nothing. I'm not gonna tell you what can be done for three million, but don't say three million is nothing. Since we have had, at all budget adoptions, amendments of various Members of Parliament for less than three million so far, but could not be made because there is no money or because the items were set differently. The law is opposed by more than 48 thousand electorates and voters, those who have signed and will come to the referendum and vote against it. I'm sure there'll be more. I really don't understand why we couldn't if, as my colleague Ferluga said, "25 years we've been waiting, waiting, waiting" and what is 5 months compared to 25 years, let's wait another 5 months and do this together with the presidential elections. [[…]] It would actually weigh. Yeah, there's probably more people coming to the presidential elections than there's going to be a referendum. If you look at the participation in the referendums and the participation in the presidential elections so far and, of course, in the parliamentary elections, there is an ever-increasing percentage of people in the presidential and parliamentary elections than in the referendum. But that's what you're worried about because you know that if you came back then, if there was a referendum then, the marriage would fall. In short, you're afraid that the marriage will fall, so you'll give it on September 24th, when it's probably mainly in the countryside, in the wine-growing environment, when the harvests, when you count that people won't go to the polls, that the quorum won't be reached. But that's how you calculated when there was a referendum on the Marriage and Family Relations Act. At that time, part of the opposition and civil society came together and brought enough people to the referendum. I'm sure you can do it this time. It is, of course, up to citizens and citizens themselves to decide whether or not to allow a hundred million-dollar theft of their money, tax money, or not. If they decide that there is enough place to have enough of this pronunciation of national euro, then they will go to a referendum and say stop to this law; they will not say stop to the project, but to the law that defines the project, and a financial scheme that is unclear. We've heard a lot of numbers; I believe my colleague Žnidar is a builder. When he was in Vegrad, his projects stand from Serbia to Germany, knowing how much things cost, he knows how things are being built. So I have no reason not to believe him. And if they looked at the financiers and if they looked at the engineers and it's really hard to say when they ask you, how much does this thing even cost, because there's about a billion 700, about a billion 300, somewhere about 980, somewhere 960 million, Mr. Minister, you have 5 minutes at your disposal, at least tell me which number is the right one. [[...]] But it is that which you speak, but it is that which your Members, but it is that which is spoken by Mr Dragonja. By the way, you wrote the law as a member of the board: “It is characterized by personal integrity and business ethics.” It is a pity that you have not written down that this applies to all those who are employees and co-workers of 2TKK. I don't know if Mr. Draganjo is the one who's making this happen. But come on, you've only reported these 5 minutes, tell the price that at least on the referendum flyers we'll know what price to give, or one 5-6 will have to write them down. And if the project has already been implemented, if it is possible to prepare the matter cheaper, I don't know why we wouldn't do it that way. I know that everyone has their own ideas, but if you have an idea for 700 million euros on the table, it is logical to collect signatures against the law, where the project will stand once more as much as it could. Unless you've already included all the fees and all the awards you're going to share, you've already got them, you'll get them in the middle and then you'll get them. But those deserving ones have to be paid, some price for July 13, 2014 has to be paid and that's why it's the way it is. But it is up to citizens and citizens to decide whether to allow theft, or to allow it to be less for social, health, education, pensions, or to go to a referendum and say a stop to this mob that controls this Slovenia, as the Prime Minister Dr. Miro Cerar said, that it is a country run by the Mafia – those are his words that it is a mafia state. And I agree, after what's been going on here, after what I saw two days ago on a national when there was an interview with a mag. Rada Pezdir; obviously true, Slovenia is a mafia country and to be a little less mafia, we need to go to a referendum and vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u73	Dr. Peter Gasperšič, Minister of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u74	Thank you, President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I'd be happy to explain some of the things you're asking me. Although these things around the price, around the financing model have already been explained many times, obviously, I don't know if you want to hear or don't want to understand or probably also deliberately turn these things around and in some way, I would say, you're also trying to deceive the public, the taxpayers. The supporters of the referendum claim that we do not need this law. They also say we don't need capital partners. I think I've even heard somewhere that we don't even need European funds. That we can fully finance this project from the budget and, of course, through debt. And these are the proponents or supporters of the referendum who say they care about taxpayers, that they will save taxpayers if I use the words "the pigs" as Mr Pojbič said or "the countries" as Mr Mahnic said. In short, these things are what the supporters of the referendum want to prevent. Now I will make it as clear as possible and briefly as possible what this marriage brings and why it is good for taxpayers. The law says that this project will be financed in a modern way from various sources of funding, namely through capital injections provided by the Republic of Slovenia and the icy state, through European funds – European grants for which we intensively prepare applications for these funds to be provided – and through debt. And these ratios of capital, grants and debt are very carefully considered to be both by the European Commission and by the European Investment Bank, which is envisaged to support the project with a loan, so that this support will come from their side. And for this we already have assurances and evidence, not least the last successful candidate for European funds. Furthermore, the law also provides the resources to pay for these costs, which the project will – not only investment, but also for the entire period of operation, throughout the concession period – therefore have to provide. And these resources are not only taxpayers' funds, but mainly and mainly the funds provided by the beneficiaries of this infrastructure, namely those who are transshipping in Luka Koper, those who then tranship the cargo on Slovenian railways and those who also drive the cargo on Slovenian roads. So these are the three key sources by which an entity will repay these necessary, i.e. investment deposits of loans, capital. Only a small proportion will be provided here by the budget, by taxpayers, so the law is largely protecting taxpayers and if there is no such law, the whole project would fall on the shoulders of taxpayers. What the supporters of the referendum actually advocate is that the project will be fully paid by taxpayers. The law provides for something completely different. So the law protects taxpayers. If I say the price, several times it has been said that it is estimated at a poor billion euros. We can talk about exact numbers. We told you why we didn't want to publicize these numbers. We can say in these tables, which have also already been drawn up before the Commission for the supervision of public finances, that one investment value, which is presented in those tables at EUR 985 million, is the other cost to be paid at the time of application. And here today the debaters, especially Mr Ljubo Žnidar, constantly replace these things. Therefore, it does not distinguish what is an investment value and what all costs are during the period of operation which will be reimbursed by the company, as stated, by the resources provided by the law, i.e. from the transhipment in Luka Koper, from the transhipment on the Slovenian railways and from the transhipment on the motorways. In short, there was still talk about alternatives. There are practically no alternatives. The route has been placed in space for 10 years. If we now decided to look for other alternatives, it means putting the project in a drawer and looking for other solutions next year [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u75	Gradually, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u76	The Honourable President of the National Assembly! I must say that I am truly surprised that the distinguished minister does not know what the investment programme contains because he denies me that I am manipulating value. The investment programme contains the value of the technical solution, the price of financing, the price of risk, in short, is the sum of all this. And that's the value of an investment. And do not manipulate Members and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, what is one value and what is another. Put the investment program on the table, then you can discuss or compare that we don't know what the investment programme is. The full value is, so please, the President, to inform the Minister of what is the sum of the entire investment programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u77	You know what my answer will be. That you should first ask yourself what is in the rules of procedure, what you can do. This wasn't procedural, not at all. Dr Dragan Matić has the word to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In one of the previous discussions, colleague Pojbič accused SMC of how destructive it works and trying to share policies. And I will read only part of his statement, which begins with: My dear Slovenian nation! I will quote only one sentence: “There are no more mayors who are not the Slovenians, and even fewer politicians at the state level who are not the Slovenians.” This is just a sentence spoken by this gentleman who advocates unification and not political division. So much for this principled merger of the SDS party. As far as the value itself is concerned, or the numbers that Mr Žnidar is talking about – a billion 700 000. The impression is that he is trying to create an image, that the law prescribes some fantastic numbers. And this kind of debate is to understand as an introduction to a referendum campaign, if not just a referendum campaign. I have watched this Decree on the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second track. There's no sign of any such numbers anywhere. Mr Lisec had already mentioned a procedural proposal, a proposal, and then the President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances came forward and explained that this was at one of his meetings. If he has this material, let him go to the folder, multiply it, bring it, not then make such procedural proposals to the chairman. The opposition, in particular the SDS, stressed that so far it has not been built by the establishment of companies, nor has it adopted legislation, nor has it burdened Parliament members with such tasks. But that's the difference between you and me. In this, the difference between this government and this project differs from those you favoured, for example, the TES 6 project, which was an official private project, and in fact the project of certain lobbyists and individual political Februaryes, which was saved and saved by the state or rather by taxpayers. [[…]] It is quite grotesque to hear from the SDS that the guards installed in the law are unnecessary and that the National Assembly is under unnecessary burden, that it must consider the second track law, if we remember the projects where they were involved – from the already mentioned TEM 6, the Šentwisk tunnel, then various episodes concerning Intereuropa, with Patrio and so on. This could still be discussed widely. I wonder, or wonder, where they have this moral right, or origin, with which they so vehemently accuse this project, which is conducted in a transparent and participatory manner, which is the only right thing. The purpose of the law is, therefore, to avoid some unpleasant experiences and some negative practices from the past. And this is also the basic starting point of the SMC to avoid repeating old negative practices, which unfortunately have been implemented many times in the account of exactly taxpayers. The price of the second track, as explained by the Minister, that I will not repeat myself after him, will be determined when the preferred bidder is chosen, no precise price can be known before. However, the financial structure was clear and well explained. So, as far as this is not clear, of course there can be no speech. Of course, the objective is to minimise the burden on the state budget and to dissipate the risk of the project. Some suggestions to start choosing another route to find a new funding model are, of course, a block for a series of years and a waste of money that has already been invested literally in the trash. Let me point out that so far governments have invested 48 million to date in studies, reviews, geological studies and project documentation. And for the individual minimum supplements of these studies, which have been re-frozen and complemented over and over again, it was also paid after the study for a few ten thousand euros just for having a sentence or two additionally placed there. And it seems that some would like to continue with this practice. But the opposition swears it's for the second track. But he's actually trying to do everything not to get to him. Otherwise, at first stage, the SDS seemed to have a little rappet to its older or older brother in the east and rather sent William Kovacic to the fire. Well, lately she's just been making up and showing off the right colors, which is good. Let's see who's up for something in Slovenia. And now for an end to this concern, about three million, due to the referendum they have produced themselves through this civil initiative, which is working closely with them. And this proposal for this to take place on the date of the presidential elections – let us leave it aside that the date of these presidential elections is not known at all – but my personal opinion is that it is only right for citizens to have the opportunity to decide on such a significant investment as the second track in a special vote, because this project will in any event be fatal to mark the future development of our country, irrespective of the outcome of the referendum. And putting this question in the same box with the presidential elections, which are a completely different story, is, in my opinion, inappropriate. Citizens must be able to obtain all relevant information in the pre-referendum campaign and focus on this particular key challenge. And it seems strange to me that people would decide on the infrastructure project of the century in the same breath when it comes to deciding who to trust in a formal and highest, mostly protocol function. The opposition clearly doubts the positive outcome of the referendum and looks forward to reaching a decision in its own measure on an outstanding infrastructure economic project through ideological political mobilisation in the presidential elections. Let me conclude that everyone, including those who oppose the law and want to block the referendum, should have a common interest if their motives are, of course, sincere – that citizens should decide as soon as possible about the issue they are asking and that this way the construction of the second track continues either in a targeted direction or that another solution is found, which I believe will be far less favourable and worse than the proposed one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u79	Procedurally, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u80	Mr President, so my procedural proposal is that you tell Mr Matić that what he has read is that I am behind this. That I am a proud Slovenian and that I will do everything to keep Slovenia in the hands of Slovenes and Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u81	Yes, because the fact that you are forgiving means that you are aware that this procedural thing you requested is not right and that you are practically running out of time. Nothing, let's move on, there's no point in burdening it. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Jurš and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I listened to this debate. I must say, she seemed to me at times untasteful. Even when I listen to colleagues from the SDS, who we know of, what policies they have led in the past, even the policy of large infrastructure projects. Remember the Šentwisk tunnel, remember Patrie, for example, remember TEŠ 6, they had fingers everywhere. Remember the management of state property, with, I don't know, Intereuropa, Istrabenz. And finally, let's remember how the pensioners were taken from their pockets by a pension, and today we're listening to some moral science. And, worst of all, the most repulsive and vile – the accusation of a 100 millionth place. In the same breath, you're talking about no next term. Then tell us, will you steal it? Because you know very well that this second track will not be built this year. It will be built by more governments in the future. And since this second track is going to be building a state-owned company, where you can, if you're in power, change the administration and, I'll say, lead personnel of your own free will, I wonder if you're going to steal it again? You are the last person in this House to be able to moralise in any way, who, in any way on the basis of their past actions, would be saved and, let us say, also to the newcomers in this field. So I find this extremely unfair, especially false and misleading to all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u83	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u84	In the same sentence, you're talking about the fact that we don't need a marriage. That's how you built your previous projects. We want to build it differently, and I don't think it's right that, even when we take this responsibility to build it this way, you're hampering us this way. So you obviously want these old practices of yours, and we don't want that. We don't want your old experience, we don't want your projects your way. We want this economic development to go forward in a transparent way and that the construction of this second track and its management will be formulated through law in such a way that the next governments, regardless of which governments will be in the coming mandates, will do so in a way that will be as kind as possible for taxpayers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u85	Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u86	Thank you, President. As the first of the first, you can probably see what a pronounced word is in effect, and what an eccentric lie is. And I would expect from you, as a representative of a party that advocates ethical and moral principles and, above all, that respects the rule of law – in theory, of course, there will be no mistake – to call for debates where Members are eloquently lying to apologize. Ambassador Zorčič said vehemently: “You from Esdees stole a pension.” After the 2004-2008 mandate, and Members of Desus can also confirm this, pensions increased by 27%. Real. And also with Zuyfa, we provided the lowest pensions, the pensions below EUR 612 with the same pensions as before. As for the pension, I would suggest that a respected lawyer, the predecessor, read a decision by the Constitutional Court. Finally, the current minister signed a contract with Patrio – also then the minister from your coalition partner, from Desus – Mr Karl Erjavec. It's never guilty, and it's always there. So we are not always guilty of SDS, sometimes it is necessary to look at our client and their coalition partners and, above all, not to lie to Slovenian citizens and citizens who are probably monitoring such transfers and probably wondering how easily Members are not only talking about the difference between 800 million and a billion 700, but are lying ecclatanically because they are nervous in the last year and are obviously nervous about when the referendum will be. So, Mr President, once again, I ask you to follow the speeches closely, both from this political field and from others, and to warn those who are eccentrically lying not to do so in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u87	There is a difference between the debate put forward between the debate and the debate put forward between the procedural debate. You know that, too. So I'm not going to define myself to what should be right or wrong. But it was all heard, there was one side heard, there was another side heard. People will be able to decide, not to think of them as foolish, they are smart enough to understand what is right and what is wrong. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Mr Jože Tanko should be prepared and then a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u88	Thank you. I would not like to contribute to the impatient debate on the various catches. I'd like to be constructive about what I'm about to say. But I have to say, I'm not going to say much at first, because you've all said a lot today. I would also say that today we have launched a real campaign for this referendum, instead of talking about these points, which I mentioned earlier, about the five points of the decree. There was very little talk about that. We were the only ones on the list until the date. Do not rush or rush this referendum together with the presidential elections or perform it on 24 September of this year. I must say that I will be in favour of the fact that the referendum and the presidential elections do not exactly belong together, and I propose that the referendum be held separately. That's my point of view. I have my right to do that. If we were to talk about how much the referendum costs us; it really costs us, but we can't now push the injustice on the one who's just saying there won't be a referendum along with the presidential elections. It would be the same as if I were now saying that you, your respected colleagues and colleagues on the other side, are at fault that the referendum has even taken place. I am aware that this is the legitimate right of citizens and citizens and that 48 thousand signatures mean something and that this must be respected. Now this referendum is all that needs to be done. How the electorate and the electorate will decide, of course, is their question. Whether you will convince them that they are against the law, or whether they will vote in favour of the law, and thus in some way confirm this project, which will be on the agenda of this referendum. The investment programme determines some price, but it's not the final cost of the project. The project will be awarded the final price when the contractor is actually selected. That'll be easy to say. This project will cost so much. And now we're talking about some price, which is actually not exactly a legitimate price for me. The government has decided on some way, an approach to the implementation of this project. We may not all like this way completely, but the government has decided. However, if it were another government, it might be possible to approach this project in some other way. Why is it now the President across the board, or is it possible to continue? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u89	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u90	We now, on the average, are actually assessing that this approach is not correct. And I think that maybe this approach is the one that will bring this project to its end. I remember when the Minister of Infrastructure was on the grill, when we kind of baked it for some things. At that time, of course, we also asked him a lot of questions and evaluated him, and I must say that at that time we in our parliamentary group said in particular what we wanted in this project. And, of course, we want a concrete list – of course, without it, we want civilian control of the project, and we want to know why and how Hungary will be involved in this matter. These were our key issues. And, of course, the cost of the project itself. When we get all these answers, and we've already received a lot of them, I must say that our parliamentary group or our party as a government party will also participate in this campaign – not as a party alone, but together with the government. The results, as I mentioned earlier, will be visible to the referendum on 25 evenings. Nothing catastrophic is going to happen, believe me, if there's good control over the funds spent. If that is not the case, the issue can be relatively open. We want this project to take place after so many years as you've just seen it go away. But I know, and I'm sure if on the other side were those sitting on this side, it would probably be a similar, similar thing. Everyone would like to carry out a project during the reign. That's what I'm sure, I guarantee. That's what I'm behind. Trust me. The biggest problem is that this project could start in this mandate for you. But if I said it would be the other way around, it wouldn't be any different.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u91	Mr Jože Tanko has the word, and then we are going to the conclusion of the general debate, where he will also be given the floor as a representative of the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Now it might be possible to ask first which mayor would undertake the project in such a way as local, municipal. Would you get the Ministry of Finance's consent so he can do that? Would you get an agreement on an assignment at the Ministry of Finance to carry out such a project in such a way? Some of the Members you are here have been mayors, and I guarantee you that no mayor, except Jankovic, would have obtained the consent of the Ministry of Finance to carry out the project in this way. There is absolutely nothing known about this project. We don't have a solution project, we don't have a project to implement, which means there are no censuses. The project changes from day to day. Once it's one-tier, once it's a two-tier track, once it's a one-tier track, etc. Mr Minister, Secretary of State or anyone who comes from the Government to any authority in the National Assembly, the Committee of the National Assembly or the public, says another solution every time. Every other time. The problem is that because there is no project, it is difficult to make an investment programme. It's hard to do because we don't know the quantities, not the lengths, not the width, not the height, not the number of tracks, we don't know anything. And that's why there's no investment program because it can't be made. It can't be made. My colleague Gniedar already explained to you in the introduction that this is the case. Unfortunately, there are other irregularities or other stupidities in the case of this project. I think that the Secretary of State on one echo has stated that the fact that a request for a referendum has been tabled will not stop the project. This means that the Government, whether or not the law is adopted or the basis for investment is the law or not, is totally irrelevant to the Secretary of State. How to understand this differently than that the Secretary of State has no idea what the rules are in the rule of law. He doesn't know. If a law is requested for a referendum, it shall be suspended. If the law goes down, there's no project or there's no law. And then how is it possible that it doesn't matter whether the law is or the law is, or the referendum is, or isn't it for the government? The President of the Government, who is considered a supreme constitutional lawyer, should address such a secretary of state the moment he declares such nonsense. Can you imagine any of our Members saying that it doesn't matter, whether it is or not, we will do it our way and you can stand on your head? This second track project is not about working according to some standards, according to some sequences of procedures, according to some rules of placement, design, performance planning, resource provision, but rather a purely handcrafty matter, where it is only important, what is the difference between prices. If you listen to these statements of gentlemen coming to the National Assembly and talking about the price, then, I don't know, you hear the numbers from 500 million to Popovic, up to 789 million to the President of the Government when he answered the question, up to 900, I don't know, 80 million when the Minister of Transport answers, up to, I don't know, a billion 700 when he gives a diagram at the Dragonje Committee meeting and shows it. Apparently, this project is designed as well as vascular resistors. Every intermediate phase, every lobby that someone's covering, has a number of their own, and for some, there's so much for others, so much for thirds and so on. It's interesting how these numbers are built. The one who will manage the money is Mr Dragonja. That's what he says. His number will be at the end of the last one. But since the project is not designed to produce an investment programme, this number is not final. This will be similar to TES 6, when new investment programmes were made there 5 to 7 and each had a new number, a new amount. And so it will be here – one bunch of extra parts, one bunch of repairs to the project, which will already be done in half, will have to be fixed, and so on and so on. The team representing this proposal in the National Assembly does not provide any guarantees, does not provide any guarantee that they can do so in any other way. They are also aware of this, so it is also quiet because every time someone answers, there are two new problems in this project. Given that there is a difference of EUR 900 million between the President of the Government and his Secretary of State, Draganjo, there are two facts that are available and have also been told in the National Assembly, you know what this means. This means that each Slovenian municipality could receive EUR 4 million, on average. 4 million euros in the budget. And for these 4 million euros, the average congregation would make a huge deal. Interestingly, you have had a conversation with the ZDUS; here I have their article, their newspaper, where they said that the ZDUS supports the construction of the second track. Interesting. But the difference between the President of the Government and his State Secretary is 900 million, and as far as ZDUS is concerned, this means 15% in the annual pension rise against the budget of the ZDUS. 800, 900 million is 15% — if not more — of pensions. And now I doubt that you ZDUS have presented this project in such a way as this means for their pensions. At least 15% at annual level is this difference in price. And now I wonder if the ZDUS will still be a promoter of the second track, and the pensioners will – I think one hundred, 500, 600 thousand – cancel 15% of the pension. So that their housing organization, which they are advocating, will do them this favor to take 15% away from them. I doubt the pensioners are so generous that they'll do it. A few more words about some other things. Interestingly, one of the stones of the trap is TES 6, the process of accepting the investment TEŠ 6, especially for SMC. The main promoter of the investment in TEŠ 6 is in SD, a joke crew with Kontic and Meho. The President of the Government was informed in due time, at the time, Mr Pahor, back in 2009, that the project should be stopped because things have changed dramatically. He didn't do anything. Colleagues from the SMC, as you are stressing them now with regard to our position on this subject, please address your coalition partners. As far as the Patria thing goes on, some of you are constantly being irritated. I think you have all the information on Patria on the table today; everything, to the Constitutional Court, all the decisions on the table. And those who, I would say, are not able to understand the point of this decision and the decisions of the authorities or institutions that have taken decisions then find it difficult to imagine that they are capable of understanding the investment in the second track. In particular, because they have the most to say about these investments by sociologists who have never actually made a real investment or have almost never engaged in it, especially with investment of great importance. The Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, and I don't know who else, the KPK, is a sensitive force if someone gives a contract to a municipality for 500 euro extra works, the force is sensitive – immediately procedure, immediately 400 euros in fines. Here, when the government goes into this project in such a depraved way, it is in some ways all quiet, no response, except for the KPK, that it is an investment that has all the signs of corruption. And another thing is, if we figure out this difference, this 900 million. I'm just wondering if that's the difference in price between a reasonable cost. It's, like, calculated corruption. And I would like to know if, for the European Commission or for those who share European money, such a price difference is justified. The cost of this investment will only be paid through an entry to reach between 30 million and 40 million per year for the next 45 years. 450 million is the difference in this item. How does a serious investment at the same base have to make such a big difference? If this was the difference between constant and escalated prices, O.K., but this is the same base, and you just figured out the difference in price. I propose that you also support the amendment proposal as well as the simultaneous vote with the presidential elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u93	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor as a representative of the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u94	Mr President, thank you for saying so. As a representative of the proposer, I can only conclude that today's debate has focused somehow on the date of the referendum itself. Given that this was not a problem at the meeting itself, from a legal point of view and from the Legal and Legislative Service itself, I will not use this time as a proposaler to express my views as an SMC Member, so that I can only find that this decision is also appropriate for further consideration or decision-making in view of today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-04-SDZ7-Izredna-45.ana.u95	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate the third section and the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate on this. I am putting to the debate the fourth section and the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Even in this case, no one. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the third section. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of the SDS Group and the Left Group to the fourth section. I inform you that with the amendments it is proposed to set a voting day within a period of more than 45 days from the date of the call for a referendum. Therefore, the National Assembly will vote on these two amendments by a two-thirds majority of the Members present on the basis of Article 33(1) of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative. If one of the amendments is adopted, the assembly, with the same majority, will also vote on the motion for a decree in its entirety. First, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the fourth section. If this amendment is adopted, it will become the amendment of the left-wing Group to the same section irrelevant. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the fourth section. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 48. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line in its entirety. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 18. [[in favour of 50 votes.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 45th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that in 15 minutes, the 59th urgent meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space will begin in the large lounge.
