ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Ludmila Novak, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Dr Vinko Gorenak from 15.15 to 17.15 hours, Mr Marijan Pojbič, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Dr. László Göncz, Mr Matjaž Han by 17:00, Mr Peter Wilfan, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Mr Jožef Horvat, Mr Zvonko Lah, Mr Saša Tabaković by 15:00, Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, Luka Mesec, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Janez Janša from 13 to 15:00 and Mr Miha Kordiš. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 31 August 2017 with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present. 66 votes in favour, one against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. Procedurally, Mr. Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It's good to see you for a long time. I hope you have a nice rest during the holidays, because it looks like the autumn will be very hot and varied. As I have been preparing for what awaits us today in the National Assembly, the timetable and the debaters, I am procedurally proposing that, in terms of the content and quality of the debate, democratic standards and the principle of equality of all in this campaign for 10 minutes, the opportunity to present the position of Vila Kovacič, the first to be signed under the referendum initiative. We can say that it represents the votes of 48 000 citizens and citizens, and therefore I ask that we vote on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u3	I've already answered that question. There is no business opportunity for that. And here, unfortunately, there's nothing you can do. You know that many times we have had such questions in the case of those who may be present at the meeting, but it is that the admissibility of the debate on the Committee is otherwise regulated as the permissibility of the debate at the plenary session. And on the committee you voted on this, you took a position in accordance with parliamentary practice, and that is what can be done in accordance with the existing rules of procedure. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is an objective proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the establishment of conditions for ensuring the equivalence of the position in the referendum campaign, the financing of the referendum campaign and the sustainability of the capacity to represent the position. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 28 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u4	Your Honor! I'd like to say good-bye to everyone! Democracy is based on the fact that every voter, every voter, always has all the relevant information available for any country's important decision. They must be accessible and must be illuminated equally with different value angles. Of course, this is particularly important when elections are held and the referendum is held. At that time, all parties must have the same opportunity to present their views. The government's decision to devote 97 000 euros to its own campaign, while the applicants do not get this option, has a basis in the law that we opposed in the SDS when it was adopted during the Borut Pahor government. We have warned that it is in itself an obvious violation not only of certain constitutional standards but also of international rules and rules. In particular those affected by the possibility of equal participation between citizens and citizens in direct, that is, referendum decisions. At that time, unfortunately, this legislation was adopted. The current decision of the Government raises quite a few questions. In fact, why is the Government so afraid of this decision that it has to allocate additional resources that are not equally accessible to the referendum's proponents? Why, then, does the Government want to ensure that it represents views at the expense of citizens and citizens, while those who finally make decisions, namely, those citizens and citizens, pay for it? You know, if we're paraphrasing an old legal wisdom that's been expressed several times in this national council, not every big piggy is also a crime, but, ladies and gentlemen, with Dr. Cerar at the helm of a big pig. A similar decision was already in the hands of the Irish Constitutional Court. It has only decided that such a right does not exist that no state institution can be in a privileged position against the applicants, because the decision is, I quote: “Only from the people and the people.” So power is in the hands of the people. This, ladies and gentlemen, has also set out exactly the Slovenian Constitution, which, at least in its fundamental democratic sense, you are certainly violating at government level by such conduct. The recommendations we make to the National Assembly are twofold: one is an introduction to the issue itself, and the other is a proposal, a concrete proposal to recommend to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the text of the Amendments and Complements Act should be prepared and set out immediately, in order to ensure consistent equality in financing in the referendum campaign, which means that, in the case of public funding, they will be equally accessible to all parties. The fundamental simple question is also raised: Why does the Government take the right to act in obvious disharmony with Articles 14, 15 and 44 of the Constitution of Slovenia, of course in connection with the constitutional right to direct decision-making and the management of public affairs? As such conduct directly opposes the Code of Good Practice, it opposes Article 25 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, Article 10 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. He puts the right to freedom of opinion on his head in some way, he makes it hollow, he makes it meaningless, he makes it seem, and that is the fundamental problem that we are facing today. If in one country every citizen and every citizen, when it comes to direct decision-making, is not easily and equally accessible all information, both for and against, then such a democracy is a farce, and it is, if I am very mild, kind of problematic. What remains in this regard as substantive, however, is why all of this is actually necessary for today's decision. After all, the law itself, which is the subject of the referendum, is unnecessary. Such decisions could be taken by a ruling coalition, without the adoption of a special law, with the appropriate application of the legal apparatus. Because of this, ladies and gentlemen, the content of this law is very strange. Therefore, it is necessary to allocate additional funds for propaganda in order not to notice what is actually being decided. Every citizen, every citizen, will give out of his pocket — how much? A thousand euros to build a track. At such an excessive price that some European countries have built, say, research centres, synchrotrons, which are entirely surrounded by specially super-conductive magnets and are appropriately cooled, at a similar or even lower price. And here is a simple railway track. If all railways or railway links in Slovenia were built for such money, either new or renewed, then this would be the most expensive project in the history of the European Union. Go ahead and recalculate. The situation, when such an irrational spending occurs, of course, is clear, in Slovenia there will be no subatomic particle accelerators, and a political money laundering accelerator for the ruling coalition and its members will be built. And that is not to say that taxpayers who already want to be taken out of their pockets by the ruling coalition for a billion and a half euros should pay for the propaganda that the state will inform them unilaterally, which means that democracy will turn into a farce. Such conduct is unacceptable, democratically rejected, and it is probably clear to everyone from the point of view of responsibility what time it is. It's the oldest trick we've ever known in left-handed people when it points to someone else with a finger and yells, you get a thief so that the taxpayers don't notice how deep the left-wings have already gone into their wallet and how big a pile of money they're pulling out of it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we oppose this. Therefore, we propose to adopt a recommendation to the Government that appropriate legislation be adopted without delay in order to amend the law. We know that it is not easy to change it because it requires the appropriate majority which the ruling coalition has, of course, and to ensure an equal opportunity to present their views to all participants at this referendum and to all those who will follow it. To respect the constitutional principle that we are all equal before the law and that we have the same rights when it comes to direct decision-making on matters which, by the way, the Constitution puts first when it comes to direct cooperation in the management of public matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u5	At its 55th urgent meeting, on 31 August 2017, the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the draft recommendation as a working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u6	Dear President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 55th emergency meeting, on 31 December. 8. 2017, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the establishment of conditions for ensuring equality in the situation in the referendum campaign in financing the referendum campaign and the balance between the possibility of presenting views submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jožet Tank on 28. 8. 2017. In an additional explanation, the representative of the proposer said that the National Assembly was 4. Seven. Without the votes of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Decree on the call for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Railway Route of Divac-Koper was adopted, despite several proposals for the referendum to be held together with the election of the President of the Republic. Regarding the implementation of the referendum campaign, he pointed out that in 2011 a legal provision had been adopted to allow the government to finance the referendum campaign. The government is 20. Seven. 2017 took the decision to participate in the referendum campaign in support of the implementation of the Law of the Divača-Koper Railway and allocated € 27,000 of the budget for this referendum. According to the applicant, this puts advocates and opponents of the law in an unequal position, or this is contrary to the provisions of the equality law. According to the proposaler, this also represents illegal use of funds. The Law on Election and Referendum Campaign explicitly prohibits companies in State ownership from investing money in the campaign. Nevertheless, companies owned by the state have also registered as campaign organisers in addition to the government. The representative of the Government explained that the law in Article 3 allows the organiser of the referendum campaign to be a government or a competent service designated by the government. The law also provides that the government may spend budgetary resources to this end, but is considered to be a government limited to a 4 times lower level of funding than that prescribed in Article 23 of the Act as a restriction for the organiser of the referendum campaign. Since 2011, when the law explicitly allowed the possibility of participating as an organiser in the referendum campaign, the government has been actively involved in the campaign several times. The law was amended in 2013 and no comments were made at the time of the consultation on the articles raised by the proposal for a recommendation. The latest novel in 2013 complied with the recommendations of both the Court of Auditors and GRECO. In its presentation of the opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the second point of the recommendation followed fully the definition of the recommendation contained in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With regard to point 1, she warned that it could also be abandoned. The initiator of the referendum expressed the hope that the Constitutional Court would decide as soon as possible on his appeal against the Government's decision to allocate €97 000 of budgetary resources to organise this referendum campaign. He is convinced that the decision of the opponents places the law in an unequal position and therefore proposes to allocate the same sum to the opponents of the law. In the discussion, the representative of the proposalr expressed the conviction that the law in the work which allows the government to organise a referendum campaign and the purposeful use of budgetary resources is unconstitutional. He stressed that at the time of the adoption of Article 3 of the Law in 2011, the SDS had already opposed such a solution and had proposed an amendment that this provision should be deleted but that the amendment had not been adopted. The representative of the parliamentary group stressed that democracy is a state and the art of democracy is self-restraint. Members of the coalition expressed their belief that the most privileged political parties could be involved in the selection of funds because they could be financed in several ways and the government could only be financed from the budget. They highlighted the fact that, since the adoption of the law, the applicant has not proposed an amendment to Article 3 or a constitutional assessment of this Article, so as long as this article of the law is in force, it must be respected. However, with regard to the perceptions of participation in state-owned enterprises, as is known. After the discussion, the Committee voted on both points and rejected the proposal for a recommendation and did not accept it. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the chairman of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the proposal for a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Home Committee had been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u7	In order to present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nejc Bezovar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! Although something has already been heard, let me also briefly present the government's opinion. Under the current electoral and referendum campaign law, the ZVRK, the government can participate in the referendum campaign as an organiser of the referendum campaign and also spend certain budgetary resources for this purpose. The law limits the amount of funds the government makes available for the campaign to four times the lower value, such as the maximum level of campaign funds allowed for other referendum campaign organisers. Also, the government cannot obtain other funds for the referendum campaign; on the other hand, other organisers can raise funds for a referendum campaign from natural persons and also from private legal persons whose purpose is not to generate profits. It explicitly stated that the government could organise the referendum campaign, and this provision was adopted on the basis of the novel ZVRK-A, already in 2011. The government has already been actively involved in the referendum campaign on the basis of the current ZVRK, for example in the legislative referendum on the Small Work Act, the Archives Act, the Black Work Act and the Pension Reform Act. The government is not in a better position than the other organisers of the referendum campaign, as by law it is possible for all participants to inform voters in different ways of their arguments for or against the law to be decided at the referendum. The government is responsible for the state of affairs in all areas, including responsibility for the country's strategic development projects. Thus, the government is not only interested in the nature of things, but also responsible for the adoption and enforcement of the laws or solutions it proposes. It is necessary to distinguish between the organiser of the campaign, which has the right to participate, inter alia, in the media, and, of course, in those who finance the campaign. According to the ZVRK, all interested legal or natural persons may be organisers of the referendum campaign. On the basis of the 2013 novel ZVRK-B, however, the referendum campaign can only be financed by natural persons and, exceptionally, by private legal persons whose purpose is not to generate profits. Otherwise, the referendum campaign prohibits all other legal entities from obtaining financial contributions. The 2013 amendment ZVRK-B implemented the following recommendation by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and GRECO, i.e. the anti-corruption groups of countries in the Council of Europe. The Novela pursued the objective of greater transparency in the financing of the electoral and referendum campaigns, the online publication of the financing reports at IAPES and ensuring effective control over compliance with the provisions of the law. In its final report, GRECO notes, inter alia, that the Republic of Slovenia has made significant progress with this novel. In preparing the novel, no proposal was received in the public consultation process to amend the articles of the ZVRC, cited by the recommenders today. As such, the referendum campaign means the exercise of the constitutional right to participate in the management of public affairs. The opinion of the Government is that the current regime of the ZVRK referendum campaign is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u9	Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A few days ago, we received the Government's opinion on the point of view, and in this opinion, the Government wrote who would participate in this point on behalf of the Government. Two ministers and a few government officials were written. The gentleman who presented the government's position is not on this list. I ask whether this act, this request was subsequently substantiated, is not to be seen as misleading in the record. I'd like to ask for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u11	By letter from the Government sent 1. 9. 2017 it follows that Dr. Nietz Bezovar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, has the right to represent the Government because he would not allow anyone to speak if he did not have this authority. That's an absolute fact. So there's nothing wrong here. I've got a list of everyone here. Not everyone has the right to speak because we know that they have the right to speak at this regular meeting or at an extraordinary session or at any plenary meeting of ministers and secretaries only. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today's meeting of the National Assembly cannot be interpreted differently than part of a referendum campaign that officially began 30 days before the day of the vote. However, we all know informally that the referendum campaign has taken place at least since the date of the adoption of the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway, in effect since 8 May 2017, when the initiators of the referendum have actually started to collect the signatures of the electorate to call for a referendum on this law. At that time, a number of words were spoken on this second track in public, different opinions were faced and a considerable number of media reports were made on this issue, which is absolutely correct. It is unlikely, however, that these facts would make it impossible to say that the electorate would be uninformed or under-informed. Today's session also takes place through direct television coverage, as well as media monitoring and reporting on developments here. Until the date of the referendum decision, however, the intensity of referendum activities will only increase. However, it is important to note that the initiators of the referendum and also the initiators of today's meeting of the National Assembly are constantly dissatisfied from the start of the referendum activities. It was unconstitutional that the vote in the referendum on the second track and the election of the President of the Republic should not be called on the same day. Remember how hard the words fell at the plenary session two months ago — that the third article of the Constitution was trampled, that the people were being played. This, of course, is not the case, since the Constitutional Court, at the request of the initiator of the referendum, assessed the constitutionality of the said decision and found no unconstitutionality. It is clear today that both the date of the referendum vote and the timing of the referendum campaign are not contrary to our Constitution. Let me remind you that in May 2013, as many as 86 Members and Members confirmed the amendment to the Constitution by which we introduced the so-called model of the rejection referendum, after which the law in the referendum was rejected if it was voted against by the majority of voters who voted in force, but provided that at least one fifth of all voters voted against the law. The quorum of five voters was proposed in 2013 in the SDS and, in 2015, in the referendum on the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, it was confirmed that this quorum could be achieved and exceeded. Therefore, we believe that the current constitutional regime of the referendum precisely because of the required quorum of participation requires that the referendums be held alone and that any other forms of simultaneous vote, such as the election for the President of the Republic, should not affect the participation itself or the referendum quorum. When these allegations of non-constitutionality on the date of the referendum decision on the second indent were found to be unfounded, the initiators of the referendum submitted to the Constitutional Court an assessment of the constitutionality of the decision by which the Government of the State budget allocated 97,000 euros for the purposes of the referendum campaign. The Constitutional Court has not yet ruled on this constitutional initiative and we are still waiting for a decision, but today we have this subject on the agenda in the form of a recommendation initiated by the initiators of the extraordinary meeting. Under the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, the Government can participate in a referendum campaign as an organiser of the referendum campaign and also spend budgetary resources for this purpose. The law also limits the amount of funds the Government makes available for the campaign. To a four-fold lower value, such as the maximum level of campaign funds allowed for other referendum campaign organisers, i.e. for political parties or facilitators of the referendum. Nor can the Government obtain other funds for the referendum campaign. The other organisers can raise funds for a referendum campaign from natural persons, as well as from legal persons of private law, whose purpose is not to create profits. However, we must not overlook the fact that the Government is leading the country's policy, acting on behalf of the State and is responsible for the situation in many areas in the country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, in most cases, a bill-maker, and is therefore not only interested in the nature of the matter, but also responsible for the adoption and implementation of the proposed law or certain solutions. Therefore, active participation in the referendum campaign should not be denied. While it is true that today's candidates do not challenge the legality of the amount of government funds allocated to the referendum campaign, they deny that they are in a worse position to initiate the referendum. They also want the same amount of funding allocated to the State budget referendums for the purposes of the referendum campaign. On the basis of such arrangements, the State would also pay the campaign costs in addition to the holding of the referendum. We are assessing the current funding arrangements for the referendum campaign for relatively good, but we are not challenging the debate and the search for better legal solutions addressing the financing of the referendum campaign. However, if we want a serious and thorough debate on these issues, then we do not change the rules of the referendum or election campaign now that we are in a referendum or election campaign, but we should either do so sooner, or wait for a referendum or an election. And that is precisely the fact that, during the intensive referendum campaign at the plenary meetings of the National Assembly, we raise such questions, and we are convinced that today's meeting is primarily the political tool used by the initiators for their needs in the referendum campaign on the second track law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Our current government would like to stress that it is democratic to ensure respect for the constitutional principle of equality before the law, as one builder of advanced democracy, in its coalition agreement also highlights an open dialogue with civil society. Let's see what they say, I quote: "A quality civil society is an important third pillar of society without which there is no sustainable development. The latter would also like to support the country by involving civil society representatives as facilitators for the development and optimisation of the business public sector, by establishing a transparent and long-term stable system of civil society financing and by integrating the results of civil society into the general performance indicators. We believe that the State must support the amendment of legislation, where necessary, for the formal involvement of civil society in the functioning of the State on the basis of reciprocity and ensure the establishment of an independent system of civil society financing." End of quote. How well these vows are read. But the reality is, unfortunately, different. More than 48 thousand civil society signatures, which required a call for a legislative referendum to manage the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line, are not sufficient reason for the Government to listen to contradictory arguments, to hear the voice of the professional and lay public who thinks soberly and discreetly, without personal bills. If she had complied with her commitments made before the elections, she would have, if not the other, at least called for a legislative referendum at the same time as the first round of presidential elections. The conduct of the government of Mir Cerar shows a completely ignorant attitude towards the citizens who elected the government. In Novi Slovenije, we recommended that the Government prepare a proposal for the amendment of the Law on Election Referendum Campaign, which would level the position of all the organisers of the referendum campaign. The Government should, too, comply with its pre-election commitment to open dialogue with civil society and allow for an equal position in this campaign by amending the law. It is true that, at this point, the Government acted lawfully when it provided 97,000 euros from the state budget as the organiser of the campaign. It has thus given itself a great advantage over the organisers who enter the campaign on the opposite coast. It is offensive to claim by the coalition that the Government is in a deprived position because the initiators of the referendum can raise financial resources from anyone. Meanwhile, the government, by the way, has taken almost 100,000 euros for the same purpose from the taxpayer's money. Of course, it is too easy for the government to give up and amend the law, which has allowed this discrimination since 2011. If the Government has acted legally, this is certainly not state-owned companies which have opened special transaction accounts as referendum campaign organisers, although they ensure that they will not spend a cent on the campaign, because the law expressly prohibits it, then every citizen asks logically – Why are they even taking part in this campaign, and how, if they do not spend their money for this purpose? Are they going to collect him? They certainly do not open accounts due to the possibility of performing in the media and at the meetings. What's he got to do with the railroad and the other DARS? What will he explain at the hearings? The fact is that state-owned companies have already used the funds from their giro accounts to open a special account, and the fact is that they will defend the government's positions in the campaign and thus at least indirectly influence the voter's decision. The referendum campaign means all advertising content and other forms of propaganda aimed at influencing voter decision-making in the referendum. So Dars' claim that they will not devote a cent to the campaign, nor will they define themselves as to the law that is the subject of the referendum is irrelevant. The official referendum campaign has already begun. The government has perpetuated this by looking at the extractive track between Divisco and Kopro. Such an instigator of the referendum, Mr Kovacič, cannot afford because the law does not allow him to spend public money for this purpose, even though it is in the interest of more than 48 000 citizens. Since the current Law on Elections and Referendum Campaigns prevents a fair battle and allows the Government a privileged position with regard to the financing of the referendum campaign, in Novi Slovenija we supported the proposal at the meeting of the parent committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u15	Before I give the floor, let me say that on Friday, the main office did not send a review of the participants by the Government to all leaders of the parliamentary groups, which is now being corrected. That is why Mr Jožeta Tanka's procedural question has been raised before. I apologize for this unloving thing that's happened. The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! We are against the fact that companies, in particular private companies, are taking part in referendum campaigns. For large companies have huge means of propaganda. The last thing we need is to join the referendum campaigns. For example, we have the same problem with transatlantic agreements such as CETA and TTIP. Launching lobbyists and businesses into legislative procedures and campaigns is thus a death for democracy. We are also against the fact that the government is spending the budget reserve for the campaign, even though the entire state apparatus is available. On the one hand, you speak to socially disadvantaged people that public finances need to be balanced and you act like money is too much. And I'm not just talking about these 97,000 euros that are for the campaign, I'm also talking about the 3 million that the coalition will spend because it didn't want to call the referendum at the same time as the presidential elections. We all know that September was not chosen to make the election easier, but the coalition chose it out of fear, so to speak, because it simply hopes that sufficient participation or quorum will not be achieved. And I think the government is right about that. We could speculate that more citizens will vote against it than they would vote in favour. Most people would not even vote against it because they would know exactly why government law is bad. I believe they will vote against it because the government and Minister Gasperšič never conducted the project openly and transparently. In fact, from the very beginning, Minister Gasperšič manipulated, deceived, for example, at the beginning of his mandate, even stated that the second track was not necessary because Austria had already bypassed Slovenia in relation to Italy, which is not only a first-class nonsense but also a shameless distortion of the truth. The port of Koper has been the largest port for Austria for six years. And since the Alpine route was supposed to be used by Austria to bypass Slovenia, Austria had recently begun to build. So it is sad not only that this was declared at all, but that Dr. Gasperšič, who is a Dr. Science, is a long-standing civil servant and not least the Minister of Infrastructure later on. It is also unacceptable that this statement is repeated in an ad in June this year, for which the government spent 17,000 euros in government funds. There's more obvious lies in that ad, let's say the second track is a two-track. Please. Only the three longest tunnels will be two-thirty, all the rest, five tunnels, viaducts, all of them. And so if we conclude after this June ad, then what the Government shows, of course, this campaign will be dirty and it is even more unacceptable that the government will spend almost 100,000 euros of public money for this. And instead of organising a propaganda campaign with directors of state-owned enterprises, the government should simply tell citizens the truth. The truth is that Hungary’s participation in Slovenia is simply harmful. We are hurting both politically and financially, of course. No serious country, which we stress in Levica all the time, leaves the ownership of strategic infrastructure to other countries. Cerar's government, however, is a law under which the second track will be very easy to adopt for 45 years under the co-ownership of a foreign country. The case of the Krske power plant confirms that the joint operation of strategic facilities is extremely difficult, even if the state is acting as an equal partner, but the business with Hungary in the second track is not equal. Hungary, by law, acquires significantly more than Slovenia does. At first glance, it seems to be a sort of balanced investment, but it's just some sort of illusion. It is true that Slovenia and Hungary are to contribute equal entry capital, that is, EUR 200 million. It is also true that the profits should be split in half, but the government always forgets to stress and we will do this in an effort to ensure that the loans of the project company 2TKK will be paid in full by the Republic of Slovenia. The public debt will increase for us and Hungary will not, so this business is uneven. And the third time. Hungary will gain not only half of its profits, but also its tied business on the railways and in the copier's port, and that's what's still in the air. To this point, the government has never rejected these assumptions, has not rejected the requirements which Hungary has repeatedly stressed, which means that something still has to be in the air. And I'm going to be specific and quote the explanation from the law itself. The financial sustainability of the project company will be ensured if the budget, after its construction in 2025, allocates an annual amount of between €30 million and €40 million, depending on the duration of the concessional relationship. In particular, Slovenia is therefore expected to provide at least EUR 31 million from the budget of this subsidy, which is called the payment for accessibility and per year. How much will Hungary guarantee? Nothing. If this isn't a school case of unfair exchange, then I don't know what it is. This is about as much as if you and your neighbor agreed that each of you would give 20 000 euros per road running around your lot, and that you would rent another 30,000 euros of credit, then this neighbor would simply demand that you give 3,000 100 euros per year for repayment, and he would not. Multiply these numbers by 10,000, add the tied transactions that Hungary requires, and you will understand what public-public partnership means and why we oppose this law. For us, the only alternative is to simply use European funds, and the European Investment Bank's loan, while Hungary's 200 million euros, we provide ourselves gradually by 2020. And such a solution was also presented by Method Dragonja himself, I think, May for the newspaper Delo. In Levica, we would only add that we can get money from increased budget revenues without a new debt because last year alone had a budget of 135 million euros more revenue than those planned. Finally, let me define the content of the recommendations. We didn't support them on the board because they're really irrelevant. They have no influence on this campaign. If the SDS wanted to prevent the participation of Slovenian railways in the campaign, it could be achieved through its sympathizers in the control councils and the management of railways. If this was really the case, the SDS, as well as the NSIs, could propose amendments themselves directly, not recommend that they be proposed by the Government. By the way, the proponents rightly state that this is not the first case of spending public money for the coalition's referendum campaign. In 2011, Pahor's government did so. But they forgot to add that Pahor’s government was succeeded by Janša’s government, which could have done what Cerari now recommends five years ago. This is, of course, neither the first nor, of course, nor the last case of amnesia in the SDS. Today, the main critics of the second track, and one year ago, for example, did not support our interpellations by Minister Gasperšić, although the route was at the same time as today and the estimated costs were even higher than today. Interpellation mainly referred to the story with the second track. In the SDS, of course, only the proposed route is highly criticized, although it is essentially Janša's route. Not only was it accepted by Janša’s first government, but Janša’s second government has not changed, although they now feel so bad. In short, when you listen and also read these manipulations, which enter this campaign on one side of the government and on the other, the right opposition, of course, it is clear why citizens are losing confidence in the country and, above all, democratic mechanisms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u17	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u18	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We need a second track. What's more, he should have been built by now. But we also need the whole railway infrastructure, not just the second track. Why today's debate? Why the referendum? The referendum will be on whether the second track is built on the basis of the law proposed by the Government or, like other modern European countries, with clear financial design and modern means. We'll make that decision at the referendum. What are we reading from the government's proposal? The law is unnecessary. 2TKK is also unnecessary. Why? Are we going to set up a state-owned company for every bridge in every precinct? And, of course, we allow the influence of foreign countries. What are the interests in the background? These are the negative changes the government wants. The government has a great advantage in this referendum campaign. It has a number of institutions that can use their position and their presence in society to side with the Government. The government has greater access to the media so that it can place its views before the privileged. Now we see that she has acquired even additional funds, 97 000 euros and, of course, state-owned companies that have opened transaction accounts. On the other hand, civil society is without all these advantages. Where's the equality of position here? Some compare this to Tess 6. Of course, the comparison is visible at all levels. There's no clear financial structure as was the case with Teš 6, and what I've already pointed out is that we don't need the law. Why did the marriage take place? That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility has been transferred to the Members. We can see that Teš 6 is responsible for the responsibility of those in the government. In this case, the law has transferred responsibility to those Members who voted in favour of the law. Therefore, I say that we do not need the law, we need a clear financial structure and start work. As already mentioned, resources are in the budget, it is possible to obtain funds from Europe, but not subject to foreign influences. Why is this debate important? Firstly, in order to point out that the referendum will decide whether it is being built by law or by clear financial design and by modern means like other European countries, and to decide whether we will allow equality of position for all those taking part in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u19	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! Members and Members of the SDS, New Slovenia, two unrelated Members and a single Member convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at which they wish to consider a proposal for recommendations by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the establishment of conditions for ensuring equality of position in the referendum campaign in financing the referendum campaign and the balance of the opportunity to present their views. That's what they called this point. In their explanation of the reference, the Government, in its referendum campaign in support of the implementation of the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divač – Koper Railway, provided funds of EUR 97 000, for which it has a basis in the law and is not illegal, this is based on an explanation of the reference, which, according to the opinion of the signatories, is unfair because the initiators of the referendum do not have such an option. References further state in their explanation that governments have allocated in the same way funds in the past and that part of such funds was also paid in 2011 as a fee of Urski Čepin. In the Modern Centre Party, we estimate that today's meeting is actually part of a referendum campaign, as citing themselves contradicts the fact that the government's conduct is legitimate but, on the other hand, unfair, which is explained by the position of the initiator, Willi Kovacic, in the current referendum campaign and even Urska Čepin, in some past referendum campaign. The callers therefore have no sincere intentions to resolve open questions about the financing of the referendums, but for today's meeting they only provide media attention to give their views on issues related to the specific referendum. This is because citing qualified law-makers, and if they wanted to amend the electoral and referendum campaign law in any way, they could have done so by proposing a amendment to this law, but they did not. Callers are well aware that the rules in force in the existing law apply from the start of the campaign and before, from the collection of signatures. If they have any concerns about this law, it is least surprising that changes to the law were not required at one of the previous meetings of the National Assembly, and perhaps they could also apply to a current or current referendum. Given such a legal situation, of course, the initiator himself has also set off in the referendum, so his reference to the fact that he is somehow being treated unfairly has no weight whatsoever. The rules have been in place for quite some time. In view of the fact that it has been pointed out that this has been adopted by another government in 2011, it is not too much to repeat that today's conscripts also had the opportunity and the majority to amend such legislation in recent years. The explicit provision that the Government could be the organiser of the referendum campaign was therefore adopted in 2011. The current legislation has been put in place and has also enabled past governments to participate actively in the referendum campaign. Thus, past governments, left and right governments have also participated in such referendum campaigns, with such or other monetary contributions. On the basis of the current regulation, the Government is therefore participating as an organiser of the referendum campaign and is also spending budgetary resources for this purpose, which are limited to four times less than the maximum permitted amount of campaign funds for the other organisers of the referendum campaign. It should also be stressed that the Government cannot obtain other funds for the referendum campaign, which is not applicable to other organisers. Today, a campaign from the past took place in Ireland and the amendment of the legislation or the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Ireland. In this regard, it may also need to be noted that it is for Ireland, as well as for some other countries, that referendum campaigns are also financed by billionaires. On the basis of such referendums, there have been decisions that today those who refer to them actually oppose in their basis. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we consider that the reference to constitutional arrangements in Ireland is completely irrelevant. Of course, the discussion on the issue of financing referendums and election campaigns is always welcome. The government is therefore doing nothing illegal to communicate with the public in the context of the Second track referendum campaign. After all, you're admitting it yourself. As a proponent, the Government explains and advocates the content of the law in accordance with the law in force. The government is also not in a better position than the other organisers of the referendum campaign, as the law allows all participants to familiarise voters in different ways with their arguments, about or against the law that will be decided at the referendum. That, after all, the initiator is also serving, and it also comes from some past events. Let me remind you that one of the media has pointed out that the initiator has already financed the collection of signatures by paying for the work of students. So that the initiator is not so weak as to finance and collect signatures, but we believe that the referendum campaigns, which he also has with him, say, strong political parties. Under such a key law as the Second Tyre Act, it is equally important that the Government and all those on whom the second track will have a significant developmental impact be actively involved in the referendum campaign, enabling them to be informed and to represent their legitimate position in relation to the proposed law or law to be decided at the referendum. According to our assessment, the project, which is essential for the development of the economy, for the development of Slovenian logistics, and for the warning of all stakeholders affected by the good railway connection, are also, according to the Government's assessment, and according to the assessment of our parliamentary group, such that the time for the matter to move from a dead point. Today we have heard that no legislation is necessary to implement such a project. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we are still convinced that legislation is still necessary. That we did not have legislation in previous major infrastructure projects, energy projects, and we cannot boast of how they have expired. That is why it is not clear to us exactly who is disturbed by the legal provisions on the need to include both the Court of Auditors and the Commission in order to prevent corruption and similar institutions, and finally by other civil controls that will allow this project to be carried out in a substantially more transparent manner than all projects so far. Reference to some legislation and practices from abroad is completely inappropriate in this part, according to our opinion. Experience from the past shows that if we have never had a marriage before, we need it as much as we do. The parliamentary group recommended to the Government that a new law be drawn up immediately, of course, we did not follow. Those who do not agree with the law have the right to propose a law in the National Assembly, not to travel to the Government with some kind of quasi-sessions, but to do so when they had the opportunity to do so when they were in the government. Perhaps because they were suited or satisfied by the government’s position in the law itself. Today's session is nothing but part of the campaign. We believe that many views will be communicated to the public during the public meeting, which do not have any basis in reality, but are intended only to confuse the public with the project itself, to manipulate and operate either with a funding method or with the price of the project, in order to create some mistrust of the project that is still important for whether we remain on the side track or whether we will develop as a modern country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u21	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Chairman. Respectable assembly, citizens and citizens! Yeah, the campaign really started, you got it right. This shows your badges or attachments you wear today, so, coalition, good morning. It is obvious that you will devote today's campaign session, while the initiators will devote it to what is essential to talk about what is right and what is wrong, what is a privilege in this country and what is not a privilege in this country. And, please, put it in the future, leave the barefoot behind, we could propose a marriage. You make fun of this from the National Assembly and citizens and citizens because you know precisely that you have not supported one opposition proposal in this mandate. Actually, no real law, if that's what I call it, except where you saw some interest. Anyway, let's start on another field. Can you imagine a football game that would start with a bare advantage in favor of one of the teams? Of course you won't see it, just not because it's unfair. Just as it is unfair to maneuver Cerara's government to create a privileged position in a campaign on the so-called second track. International law, to which Slovenia has also committed itself, requires that the referendum campaign for both sides be equivalent or that the political playground is directly and in one direction. The International Convention on Civil and Political Rights provides that the State must ensure that there is no disproportionate use of funds for the benefit of either party. The Code of Good Referendum Practices of the Venice Commission, which some call a code, also requires that authorities remain neutral in the referendum campaign. We called for this meeting precisely because the Government of Mira Cerar has pushed the leaders of the referendum and all other stakeholders of the referendum campaign into a secondary position. The government's decision to allocate funds from the budget reserves for the referendum campaign, on the fact that it did not want to follow the initiative to hold the referendum at the same time as the first round of presidential elections, is also an irresponsible spending of taxpayers' money. With all the media support you have, with the support of the entire government, if I may say, even the state apparatus, the government has felt the need for funding for this campaign. Thus, at its meeting, it adopted a decision to provide funds of €97 000 from the current budget reserve at the expense of taxpayers, which it will spend on its advertisements and convincing voters to do so. At the very least, it is absurd, with respect, that everyone who opposes this government project will have to pay for a campaign from their own wallets to the government that is trying to convince us with this project how it is right. Moreover, in this way they will have a coalition SMC and SD with their own resources, in particular in some way an indirect opportunity to spend 97 000 euros on the referendum campaign. On the other hand, if they choose to do so, they will be able to leave their money for this campaign in their socks and save it for another project while all other stakeholders in this campaign will have to provide the funds themselves. 97 000 euros is just an unfair advantage, and if we include three other state-owned companies that have taken part in the referendum campaign, today they have been listed, Slovenian Railways, Dars and even 2TKK, which you have set up for this project, this advantage is even greater and even more unfair. We believe that the legal basis of the Pahor government, which we had already opposed and tabled in the SDS at the time, was unfortunately unheard of, disregarded, questionable in terms of the proportionality of the financing of the referendum campaign and inconsistent and contrary to the Constitution of RS as well as in contravention of international conventions or international law. However, if the government or coalition were to go to this so-called gold second track on the knife, it is clear from the beginning that when you realized that the taxpayers were not just going to open their wallets and the collection of signatures for a referendum against this project began. That's even more so because your second track project is pure madness, madness. How else can we explain that you intend to spend EUR 518 per cent of this track or other, for one metre of this route, a Slovenian worker has to work for 7 years. Because of the fear of a higher electoral participation in the event that the referendum would take place at the same time as the presidential elections, you blew up a few more million euros without reservation. Given that we are a country where many citizens do not take advantage of electoral rights, the functioning of the Government, which seeks to reduce electoral participation, is extremely controversial from the point of view of democratic values as well. While democratically developed countries are looking for ways to increase the impact of citizens in a way that ensures equal opportunities for greater participation in the referendum and better information on the views of both sides, we are facing a reverse course. Infringements of international law, cited by the OSCE in its report on Lack of Equal Opportunities, Unilateral Media Reporting and Limitation of Fundamental Rights, create a distorted playground in the Turkish or Erdogan referendum. Don't you think this painting is very similar to ours? Obviously, there is no high price to meet the needs of the elite. In such cases, the left-wing government, a quasi-protector of social rights, becomes blind and deaf for everything else. Hungry children in schools are forgotten because their parents cannot pay for school meals. The pensioners who stare at empty wallets are forgotten. Workers, workers who do not earn even for the minimum are forgotten and therefore have to receive special allowances. The Slovenian hawks are demanding their own, and they need to be fed. And that's where every reason goes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u23	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u24	Honourable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, everyone's welcome! The position of the Desus Group on the agenda at today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is as follows. If we understand correctly the applicants who signed the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, they consider the approval of €97 000 to the Communications Office for the implementation of the referendum campaign and the initiators of the referendum to be nothing, a violation of the Constitution and a series of international conventions on the political rights of citizens. While admitting that seven years ago the amended law made it possible for the government to do so, they also added that they were opposed at the time. Incentives therefore recommend that the Government prepare the changes immediately and that the National Assembly adopt them as a matter of urgency. When the request was read, it was not until seven years later that the applicants had found these alleged violations of the Constitution and the conventions when the referendum was before the door. The fact is that it was not the first time that the government financed a campaign before the referendum on the law it had adopted. However, even if we believe that it is a violation of as many as four articles of the Constitution, it would be the right way for them to check their claims before the Constitutional Court, not to argue about it in Parliament. Speakers have repeatedly reiterated the claim that these 97 000 government campaigns in the Second Track Act constitute an unequal position of the initiators of the referendum. In principle, the equality of the participants in the referendum is ensured so that full-year citizens on the electorate can make a statement on the referendum issue without hindrance. Equality when it comes to financing, and even less about this kind of equality, which is supposed to be ensured by the Treasury, is very difficult to discuss seriously. But if so, then, for example, the initiators should bear equally the costs of the referendum they require. A few million euros comes from the state budget for the costs of the referendum and no one talks about equality. The one who thinks the referendum is completely superfluous doesn't ask if they're willing to finance it from their taxpayer's money. Moreover, these 97 thousand are more than four times less money than the law allows. Finally, two opposing parties are taking part in the referendum, and if the State generously pays some millions to carry out their referendum, then it is likely that each of the 48,000 signatories would withdraw only 2 euros for the referendum, which is significantly lower by the 10 average salary law, not be too high and raise as much money as the country intends to spend on the campaign. There are also political parties that can also finance the referendum campaign to a limited extent. However, under the request for an extraordinary session of Parliament, the signatories are at least partly right when recommending the amendment of laws. In fact, in the part that stipulates that anyone who wants to participate formally in a campaign must open an account at the bank. In principle, it is possible to understand the fear of the hidden financing of the referendum campaign, but this would cut off the perception of positions directly interested in the outcome of the referendum, which would indeed be an important inequality. In this referendum, Dars, Slovenian Railways, 2TKK are directly interested in participating in the campaign. Like, in national television, but that's only possible if they open bank accounts. This, however, is controversial for the signatories of the urgent reference to Parliament, even though they have stated in advance that they do not intend to spend a cent on the campaign. But they want to be part of it. If anything, we should have arranged it differently. Moreover, there is not much to talk about today's subject, unless, of course, it is in the background of the applicants that this extraordinary session of Parliament is intended to be used for a free referendum campaign. Therefore, in the Desus Group today, the chairman of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly recommends that they immediately suspend speakers who would talk about something else, such as a second-track law or a second-track law, instead of the alleged controversial government funding of the campaign. Otherwise, the National Assembly will once again turn into a ring of those for and against the law, which costs something, and of course we will pay all taxpayers. We do not support the proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the establishment of conditions for ensuring equality of position in the referendum campaign in financing the referendum campaign and the balance of the opportunity to present positions in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u26	Oh, that's a good-bye again. Citizens and citizens, Slovenes and Slovenians, all those who will pay for this promotion of political money laundering within the second track now that the larger laundry room Teš 6 is already under the roof, you have the right to know. You have the right to know that if the government, as has now been said, acted rationally and cost-effectively, many of the ruling coalition have spoken in this direction, then it would certainly first be a referendum on the same day with the presidential elections and would save 4 million. And this is the responsibility of the coalition and the man you elected to head the National Assembly. That's the responsibility for the decisions. However, when it comes to the issue of this referendum, of course, everyone involved in the government’s decision of 97,000 euro of taxpayers’ money is responsible, but at the same time they are looking for other ways to take away the space and opportunity for equal awareness of the arguments for and against the referendum. Some of you mentioned it. You just put it in the wrong light. It is now clear that at least three public companies have opened accounts for the referendum campaign. They themselves claim that it costs nothing, that it is not a violation of the law, that they do not intend to spend money, but they have already used it by opening it, so it is already a lie in advance. But they say it's because they especially want to participate in the media campaign. This, ladies and gentlemen, means, translated into Slovenian, that they want to stamp out that little space for the referendum's proponents to point out the irrational spending of taxpayers' money, because that is all it is. I have already said that for less money, a European country has already built a subatomic particle accelerator for the scientific research of the highest rank, in great length. These are kilometres of stuff cooled with superconductor magnets, and every meter there is high technology, and it didn't cost that much money. They're getting smaller. But this is a simple railway line. And it is clear, of course, that this is not about promoting the science and research of subatomic particles, it is about promoting political money laundering. Someone will put a large portion of this money in his pocket and probably buy the next and the next. That's why he's really going. And that's unacceptable. In order to cover all this up, however, the government is still well aware of the right and is granting itself special funds for propaganda. Now we're just waiting for Ursko Chapin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u27	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't even know what the point is in responding to these last fictions. My colleague Dobovšek had earlier wondered why today's debate was about a pay phone. That's what I'm asking myself. Otherwise, I will continue my discussion with some of the conclusions that I have drawn when I have studied these materials. As usual, however, Comrade Dobovšek replaced this room with a lecture room. As usual, he taught and left. But if we listened to him carefully, his implementation on behalf of the Group of Members did not in fact touch on any of the proposals. Therefore, I still have not learned what their position is on the concrete proposals set out in the proposal for this recommendation. It has been said that such discussions are the oldest leftist trick. I find that this is a trick from the SDS Group, a trick to do exactly what is obvious to the Government that it cannot do. This is that it is getting in an unequal position compared to other organisers of the referendum campaign, because that is exactly what today's meeting is, and that is exactly what the committee's meeting was, something that brings about the unequal situation of all the other 30 and more organisers of the referendum campaign. A colleague from the SDS Group said: “It is right to talk about this, it is right to talk about what is right and what is wrong.” I find that it is not obvious enough to talk about this in cases where we could have done something about it, of course, it is not enough to talk about it. The proposer had a number of opportunities to do something about it, as the law has been in force since 2007. You were in the government at the time. We are not just talking about this mandate right now. And here we have heard evidence that this coalition does not accept any proposal from the opposition and that is why you have not submitted it. Does this mean that by the end of your term, you will not have to invest anything anymore because we do not accept it anyway? That's what I'm wondering. It's probably not like that. You're reading inequality to the government, but you're basically reading something that doesn't suit you. You realize that the government should not give arguments, on the other hand you say that it does not give them, you say that we do not get credible information, that citizens do not get credible information, and on the other hand you want to silence the government. I understand why you want the government to be silent, why it is in your interest that all the other arguments, invented, exaggerated, prevail. But some responsible government, which has proposed the law and has undertaken such a major project, must, of course, participate in this campaign. As a citizen, not as a Member, as a citizen, of course, I expect this from the responsible government, and I know that this is what citizens and citizens expect. So the government will respond to all the inaccuracies and deceptions, starting with the committee meeting on this subject that was called upon. But if I touch those recommendations that you wrote in here. You say that budgetary resources should be allocated equally to all campaign organisers. Please, there are more than 30 organizers at this point, and they are not being allocated funds. You're one of them. And now let's just see how it can equally be allocated to all the organisers. The first problem that would arise would be if there were 50 and 100 organizers. How do we now check who actually intends to participate in the referendum campaign and who doesn't? The same amount of funding would be allocated to all in a row. That's another thing. Like I said, you volunteered. Does this mean that you have an appetite for extra budget money? In fact, customers already receive money from the budget for their operations. The notification to the referendum campaign is the internal decision of each party. Does this mean that customers should receive additional budget money as a result? People are already so dismayed about the extent to which this is financed. Now you want more than I can imagine on the basis of these recommendations. So you're writing one, you're saying one, but you're actually doing something completely different. As has already been said today, the law does not prohibit the Government from actively participating in the referendum campaign. Moreover, the law says that it must be notified and the law also says that it can be from the budget, of course, because it does not have other resources, it sets out certain funds, which are 4 times less than the funds that any other organiser can spend for this purpose. The law also says that it is forbidden to pay for signature collection. That's something you didn't say. During the collection of signatures, an advertisement entitled “SDS pays students to collect signatures” was published on social networks. M service Novo mesto offers student work under the title, collecting signatures for the referendum. An hourly item of €4.53 and stimulation for each signature. Whoever's paying for it was asking one of the media. That is not what you said in your proposal. That's not the law. However, it does not prohibit the government from joining the referendum campaign. Then you are also wondering why these larger state-owned companies were involved in the referendum campaign. Of course they did. And not to help the Government in its argument, they're involved because it's in their strategic interest to build the second track, and to build it now, immediately. Because no matter how you point out you're not up against another track, but you're up against the law - good morning. If the marriage falls, how are we going to build a second track, especially when are we going to build it? And when we talk about costs like that, let us ask ourselves what it means financially if this law falls. In view of all the funds received, according to all the funds invested in the procedures so far, this represents immediate damage to some 200 million people. When we don't even start talking about what this means, you say it's not the right route, it's saying, getting a building permit, putting into space, getting an environmental permit. What does that mean? This means that in fact Slovenia will remain a small peak on paper, so small that all trucks, all companies, carry it easily. They don't need us. We need them. It's easy to drive past like we're not here. None of them need one small Slovenia. And that's the damage the country will suffer because of your clientry maneuvers, because of your client interests. The economy and all citizens will suffer. And what does that prove? It proves that in all the debates, in all your advertisements, you have a full mouth of democracy and a mouth full of what is good for citizens and citizens, and you are doing the opposite. But you do what you think is good for you. On the contrary, in the SMC, we believe that there is sometimes a need to take a step that is perhaps not the most popular, but is in the long term good for this country and for citizens and citizens. It's completely contrary to you. The government's participation in the referendum campaign is based on the Electoral Law and the referendum campaign, it is not at all controversial. It also specifies exactly what the restrictions on the use of funds are. As I said before, the government can use them four times less than all the other organizers. However, the principle of balance and equality is also ensured by the provisions on how media campaigns, such as the rules on payment, should be carried out, specifying how public RTV should allow equal and free performance in RTV programmes to all campaign organisers. This case on the second track is not the first one in which the government has participated as an organiser of the referendum campaign, but it has already been involved several times before, and the government has now spent around EUR 300,000 for these purposes, if I have just calculated. I don't know if you've ever heard anything about this before. So far, governments have been involved in the referendum campaign as an organiser of the Small Work Act, the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material and Archives, the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Black Employment, the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, and so on. When we talk about the current law and how it explicitly states that the government can also be the organiser of the referendum campaign. Although the law was amended at the time of the Pahor government in 2011, in my opinion and in the opinion of SMC this was not necessary at the time. As early as 2007, when the law was passed, of course, it was not the intention of the legislator to exclude the government from the referendum campaign, which, of course, also turned out to be black in white, in the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors in 2008, when it took into account a proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 in the Janšev government. At that time, the Court of Auditors found that the government of Janša had unlawfully committed 70,000 euros. She did not sign up as an organiser, but she committed 70,000 euros not for the entire campaign activity, but for the issue of a single package. And that's what the court found, and you didn't write that in your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u29	The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u30	Everything that's in the media is definitely true, and you know it best. This summer too has blossomed since the truthfulness of Slovenian media. We wouldn't be talking about this anymore. Look, pompousness is one of the main sins, they said, and on the vehement question, why would this debate be of any interest to people, let me give you three reasons. The first is that it's the taxpayer's money. The second is that, after the decision of your government and of you personally every Slovenian, every Slovenian, every Slovenian citizen from his pocket should give for this 27km second indent of 1,000 euros, which is scandalous in itself. In particular, this scandal becomes apparent to every citizen, every citizen, every citizen, every Slovenian citizen, every Slovenian woman, if we say that one centimetre of this line of yours will cost 518 euros. Ma'am, that's what people are interested in, isn't it? Not you, obviously, because you're chatting there. And that's why it's a problem. When you ask strong questions about election campaigns, there is a government, led by Dr. Cerar from the SMC, for which it was published – it was also in the media; you said yourself that in the media there are truths – that it was extensively financed by the Croatian tycoon in the pre-election campaign, which is completely illegal under the current legislation. So we have, if these two were to sum up, not only an illegal government, because the chief of the opposition was sent to prison in the wake of a grave violation of human rights, which was decided later by the Constitutional Court, and you took his mandate later, by the way, but on top of everything else with an illegally financed electoral campaign. This is a government that then spends EUR 518 per centimeter, one centimeter, ladies and gentlemen, on the railway track. You've got as much scarf on the Internet as you want. Slovenians have at least this good quality when things are already such that in a normal country people cry, they start making a fool of themselves, and people publish ads: “Dear Dr. Cerar's government, I would build a personal 10 meters, and I ask you to direct my money immediately to my account, because in what month will I do that, or at least one meter.” One meter, ma'am, what is it? 55 grand is a little over the euro. One metre of railroad?Oh, my God! Who's crazy here?Oh, my God! When you open a debate like this, let's ask ourselves, where is your responsibility to people, to all those who pay for it? Where is your responsibility to the Slovenian entrepreneurs who are making this money, but you are taking it away from them in all possible ways, and even at this moment, as I hear, I refer again to the media that the government is preparing at least four laws to increase or additionally burden Slovenian entrepreneurs, and everything else from the espions. This is the moment of truth where it's taken when it's financed in this way. And then to blur it out, he decides and he wants to spend only one. We have said that both those who are representatives of the arguments for, as well as those who are representatives of the arguments against, should be given, and this should be equivalent. To make this possible, therefore, in a way that will be the only one who will truly comply with the constitutional standard, which says that everything for and against must be displayed equally. It's your responsibility. Our proposal, however, is to amend the law so that this will also be clearly followed by law. That is why we opposed those novels when it was legal. And, of course, we haven't really changed our mind about this. You can always say, and you can say, mistakes are possible, and they're different, but in this case, it's not a mistake. When it comes to public companies, it was explicitly said: “We want to work together in order to do more,” we stress further, “to present the arguments to the people.” These, of course, are the arguments of the government. Which means that if you occupy some space that is available for this day, say, on RTV Slovenia or anywhere else, it means that someone else will be left with so much less. That doesn't mean you've introduced yourself equally, but it's about something else. And that's why it's not right. However, the fact that this means spending money on top of it, and again the taxpayers' resources, because they are publicly owned companies, is, of course, illegal. And we remind you of all of this, and that's why we're proposing conclusions like they are before you. In addition to taking note of the problem that the law should also be amended and it should be made clear that the arguments against always have to be proposed in an equal manner and also financed if, of course, public funding is involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u31	Replica, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u32	Thank you very much. My friend Grimes, as usual, I find you haven't listened to me at all. I didn't ask myself any questions about what the Court of Auditors found out. But I can tell you that the Court of Auditors found that SMC did not have the kind of funding that you are now referring to. I read an ad from the media about the Court of Auditors, which found that in 2007 you illegally financed a memo in your government. At the same time, the Court of Auditors also found that there was no funding in the SMC which you have just mentioned. That's a fact. No matter what the media said. And when we talk about the price of an inch, I prefer to talk about miles, saying that 27 million euros is the price of a kilometer of this line. This line is significantly shorter than the existing one and has an overall length of approximately 80% of the tunnels. Of these, three tunnels with service pipes are the longest. Previously, information was given to talk about two tracks. Of course, because these three longest tunnels with these service pipes, which we have now extended, will essentially set up a 60 % additional track. That is why these are reliable information that we can at any moment confirm and not talk about some centimeters and some numbers that are meant only to deceive people. You also misunderstood me when I was talking about how you think all other campaign organisers should be financed equally. I now think of this exercise of yours as having an invitation to tender. You're going to sign up for all those who are in favor, and you're going to sign up for all those who are against it, and then we're going to split that money a little bit. How do you imagine that now? We didn't really get along here. And also about this eating up or stalling everyone else's time, I'm asking you nicely. What are you gonna do? You're an organizer, too. You, too, will take time to meet Mr Kovacic behind whom you are hiding.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u33	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u34	It is very interesting to hear such an argument, especially since it sums up some of the already known government achievements in defending the second track. You said 27 million is the price of a mile. You know, if we recalculate it based on the projected length of the second track, it's about 730 million euros there. This is either half or less than half of the amount that is now actually predicted as consumption. Where are you gonna put the other half? That's all this is about. Where's the other half, ma'am? You can just tell people right now that we know where the money's going. Half.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u35	Gradually, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u36	President, I ask you very much to warn my colleague Grims that I no longer have the right to respond to him under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and please warn him that he no longer asks in his performance about some of the information that I am supposed to provide him.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u37	Okay, I'll give you procedurally yours, but for the first time, I can't respond to this procedurally because you've already told me everything. Procedurally, Mr. Jean Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u38	Thank you, President! My procedural proposal is to give Mrs. Servant the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because she obviously doesn't know him. Comrade Grimes spoke as a proponent, and if he speaks as a proponent, he can give him a replica. But you said you gave the procedure because you don't have the replica or you can't have it. Look at the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or at least you teach it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u39	It's not about this kind of thing. Moreover, this procedural proposal is completely irrelevant. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? It's not about not knowing the rules of procedure. It's about someone asking questions that you can't answer if you use a form called a replica correctly. Because you can only deny what you didn't understand. Don't make fun of all of us and the viewers. Please! Procedural mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u40	With all due respect, Mr President, but who for 750 million can't tell where they've gone according to his own words, he's really making a fool of himself. This was done first by the Government, now by the SMC representative. At any time, I could answer any of my questions, because, of course, she always had the option of replicating. But if he wants an extra one, then I'll go back to the word, then let him answer. Everyone in Slovenia, also in this hall, is so interested in where half the money of the second track will go. You said yourself, the government first, now you too, that the price will be 27 million per kilometer, given the length of that is 729, if we are precise, millions of euros. That's what you say, given the expected money, according to your ministers' forecasts, more than half of the money will go away somewhere else. Now we all want to know where the taxpayers' money will go. More than half, according to your own words.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u41	I mean, this has nothing to do with any procedural, you're discussing. You have absolutely enough time, but in democracy we use that time for a substantive debate. I want us to continue the substantive debate now, because it really doesn't make any sense. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mrs Anita Koleša and Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u42	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Apparently, Mrs Slug has wriggling this debate today and has also kind of set it on fire. And perhaps before I begin to explain why it seems important to me that they have all the same opportunities in democracy, it would be right to continue this debate, which is the principle of Member Servant. About the price. I know that, months ago, in this National Assembly of the President of the Government, I asked a very simple question about what the second track would cost. And the Prime Minister's response was that he could not tell me this because it was a business secret and that it was a matter of expertise not of Parliament, of politics and of us Members, but of some estimates and revised investment programmes for around a billion euros for this second track. That's a thousand million euros. And if you divide these thousands of millions of euros by 27 kilometers, do you know how much? Up to €37 million per kilometer. I assume that Member Servant most likely wanted to say 37 million per kilometer, but she made a mistake and said 27. Because if you recalculate what Member Grims said, 27 million euros a kilometer, then you get to the price that he in some way estimates is real for this track. These are the facts we can talk about now. But in this debate, another piece of information needs to be added. At the beginning of this referendum, the mayor of Popovic and the Municipality of Koper also collected signatures for the referendum. Do you remember? In order for Popovic and his congregation to stop collecting signatures for this referendum, the government promised him that they would prepare things so that the existing route they are planning would be accompanied by another track, it is said to be sufficient to meet these requirements. If you pull these things together, then you know that this price is going to go way over a billion euros. If I take the cases that were raised in public by government representatives about the price, it was about a billion 400, a thousand 400 million euros. If you divide it by 27 kilometers, you get 52 million euros per kilometer. This is now real, concrete data. So we're talking about a lot of millions per kilometer. I will use this information because it seems much more realistic to me that the investment will be at least a billion 400, which means that we will give 52 million euros per kilometer. Now let every citizen count a thousand steps and say, "That's worth 52 million euros." That's how these things are done. Now, why do I think that these recommendations made by the applicant are right or necessary? The basis of every democratic society is that every citizen should have equal opportunities in democracy. Even if you look at successful countries from north of Europe to the other side of the Atlantic or eastwards, you always find out the same thing – that those countries where citizens have equal starting opportunities are successful. In this referendum, citizens will not have equal starting opportunities. It seems important to me that people know why 52 million euros will go a mile. But given how things are set up, only one side, not the other, will be able to explain its story effectively. Unfortunately, we live in a world where money also means access to the media, the possibility of spreading information and similar things. I'm sorry, I don't like it, but that's the way it is. In terms of some equality and equal starting points, it would be fair that if the government attributed some less than 100,000 euros to itself for this campaign to give the other side the same amount. This would seem fair to me, and this position and position are also advocated by Nova Slovenija. The manipulations are when some say, "Yes, you want to be given to all organizers the same way as the government." This really makes no sense, because it means – what? If you have 30 organizers, should we split 30 times 100,000 euros into election campaign organizers? No one stands for that. However, there should be a weighting in the sense that if the government prescribes some means to defend a position for it, then, in terms of equality of citizens, it should also be ensured by the other parties. Because the government does not represent only those who have elected it or those who agree with it, but the government, if legitimately elected, does, of course, represent the whole country and all citizens. And if at some point she prescribes 100,000 euros for the campaign herself, it would be right for the other side to give a similar amount, because only in some way would it create the conditions for all to have equal starting opportunities. What anyone would do with that money depends. Of course, the ability to convince one or the other is also different. Perhaps the government will be more effective in convincing voters. Maybe the other side will be more effective. He doesn't know. But I think in some democratic society, it's normal that we all have the same starting points. And in that case, that didn't happen. That is why this recommendation is certainly on the spot. One more thing must be added is that the government already has an advantage over the citizens' initiative. After all, the government has professionals, officials who are employees who get paid to do what the government orders them to do. On the other hand, civil society does not have this option. From this point of view, of course, there is a deep advantage in this part. Of course, when you reject all these recommendations with your left hand, it seems to me that they are pointless and unnecessary, that in some way you want to silence those who say that this government option is certainly not the most rational and not the best. With regard to the professional public, it is interesting that this referendum did not even resist the first phase of politics, but went against the government of the profession. In my question, the Prime Minister has answered me that this is not a matter of Parliament, but that it is a matter of profession. The profession, professors, I think that more than 20 of them have been signed under this initiative, said that this government option is clearly too expensive and that there is a much cheaper option. And of course, if you're thinking logically about things and you're turning them back on some historical bike, you're finding that this route, which from Kopra to Divaca, was very windy, routed during the famous Slovenian construction barons, some are already in prison, some are still waiting for good health to go to this prison. In a sense, I think it makes sense that these barons contributed to the fact that the route was as windy as possible, that we had as many as 20 kilometres of tunnels or viaducts at 27 kilometers. Makes sense. For construction barons, tunnels and viaducts meant money. There has been a crisis in the past since it was traversed, and to this day, many changes have been made. This group of professors suggested that a four - mile [4 km] tunnel be built on the site of the 20 - mile [20 km] viaducts and tunnels. This is a key difference and there are also significant differences in the cost of these two projects. But of course, that we can hear these things, that we can know them, must all have the same starting options. As the government has now stated, this will not happen, and in view of some democratic standards in the country, it is bad that the majority of the government has rejected these recommendations, which do not prejudge anything, because many will understand that we have now or that those recommendations have meant that one option is better than the other. No, let people see for themselves and let people assess for themselves who is more right and what is right. With recommendations, it was only to propose that both sides have equal financial opportunities and the government coalition said, no, we are only to allocate 96,000 euros to a camp that supports this law. Those of you who are against this law find yourselves alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mrs. Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, it was expected that the initiators of the referendum, as well as the SDS party, would use all the options and also choose a variety of paths to continue this demolition. The government's decision to participate in the referendum campaign is a great reason for the new manoeuvre. Well, the meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs has fully confirmed our and also the government's claims that the applicants are firing empty bullets, but that of course was never the reason for them to give up their shooting exercises if I use a little military term that is so close and well understood by the SDS. Of course, there is no dilemma about the fact that the Government has made a perfectly legal decision. In the interest of citizens and citizens of Slovenia, it is in the interest of the Government, as a proponent of such a very important law as the Second Tyre Act, to take this referendum campaign seriously, professionally, responsibly. This responsibility also includes some of the funds that have been made available at €97 000 this year. These are limited resources, very limited and what adds to the initial starting positions will certainly not be due to this. The government itself has assumed an enormous responsibility for any outcome of the referendum. If we put it in a corner today, yes, once the outcome of the referendum is known, we'll put it on a pranger, one way or another, or on a pedestal, I don't know. In short, once the referendum results are known, this will, of course, be a purely governmental responsibility. Then we also heard about some of the government's privileges in this campaign, and you'll be monitoring ministers and the Prime Minister at every turn. Of course, with such a privilege, the law on the second track itself has nothing and perhaps it would be good at this time, perhaps a minute of those who proposed the referendum may still be counted before the referendum and someone else who responded to these proposals, at least for me entirely unfounded proposals. How big was this minute, say, at this time? Then we hear that it is outrageous to include companies, state-owned companies such as Slovenian Railways, Dars and the like in the referendum campaign. Yeah, I guess so, because these companies have to say clearly and out loud how they feel about this law. And they also care that it remains unclear and that it is superficially explained, which, through professional debate and professional thinking, has so far come into the very contents of the second indent law. That is why, of course, their inclusion is fully understandable and, of course, I am aware of this embarrassment of SDS to include these companies. Since these are professional questions, I understand that they are afraid of professional answers, because what we are now listening to is very unprofessional for my taste, one great populism. You're doing your best to be second-guessed, but not for the law. I think it's a lot of stupidity and manipulation with people. The only reason for the referendum is clear and communicated by Villa Kovacič. In fact, you want to prevent, as he says, the President of the Government of the painting at the beginning of the construction of the second track, that is to say that this government would not have succeeded in the start of the construction of such a large and strategically important infrastructure facility for Slovenia. But I'm sure if we didn't accept this marriage, we would have listened to the obvious why we didn't adopt the law. Because the law is a transparent way to make an investment. Of course, I agree with that very much, especially if we think about how untransparent the investment, which of course we're all talking about, which we all know about, was Tesh 6. The project was run by a state-owned company and we completely excluded the country, Parliament, from the decision-making process all forms of control. And we today have a lot of this explicitly written and, of course, much more transparent in the law. So for me, the law is a transparent and binding path to rational and professionally controlled investment. The fact that only the political interests of those leading the signatories to the referendum proposal are, of course, those in state-owned companies may be the ones most aware. I stress that it is perfectly legal because they will tell people that we need this second track and also to the extent that it is planned. These professional reasons will, of course, be the most clear, loud and comprehensible explanation of their salaries. Of course, they will not finance the referendum campaign. After all, they will also say why the financial structure is as it is, and in the details of this financial structure at this point, I will not advertise on this subject, because this is not really about this meeting at all. If I now leave aside the fact that the meeting is obviously intended to agitate against the adoption of the law, it is ironic, on the one hand, that the SDS is in some way so transparently engaged in this project against the country. It's about what Janja's colleague mentioned earlier. In fact, in the referendum campaign on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Transformation of Insurance, Janez Janša in 2007, without a decision to co-operate with the government on the organisation of the referendum campaign, the government financed an amount of EUR 70,000. Mr Grimes didn't say anything about that. I did not hear that I would explain why, at the time, they were purely outlawed and purely against the current interpretation of the same starting bases in the SDS. It just gives us some clear signal that they don't care what the law says. Here I would say that representatives of New Slovenia could imagine a little. They were in the government at the time. Even that starting position was then a few hundred meters closer to the goal if we explain it as they explain it today. But she was illegal. What the government is doing today is legal, however, because a novel was adopted in 2011, which has made it clear and clear how this funding is being implemented. I'd say that's perfectly clear because they've never asked for any changes to the law at this time. You know what? But the law does not apply to them, and if it does not apply, it does not matter what it is. In the end, I'm going to conclude a little differently, maybe by just thinking that we don't have time for political games like SDS. In July, a report by the Croatian Government on their investments in infrastructure in the broader area of the river was presented in the Croatian New Paper. They list sections of roads and railways which will be built or updated, of course, together with Europe, by the extensive means they intend to receive from the European Union. They're planning about 1.5 billion investments. And the article is concluded as follows, in a free translation: All these projects are located on the Reča road, which connects the port to the railway to the border with Hungary. And this realization will enable the rail system to cooperate equally and competitively in the European transport market, thus increasing the competitiveness of Croatia's largest port. Do you think our neighbours will also call a referendum on these investments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The text is by the proposer, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u46	Thank you. So far, I think it's been the third time that SMC has made a statement that this is just a referendum campaign. Well, I accept your theory that's true, but then you should just say thank you. You should come here and hug me and say, "Thank you for doing us this great service." For who is the majority in this national assembly, and who has the right to most of the time? Yes, the ruling coalition with SMC at the helm because it has the most Members. Besides, the government has extra time. So if we recalculate it, the right to three-quarters of the time the ruling coalition plus the government together, i.e. the arguments for the law, not more than 25%, and a bad quarter of the opposition with an argument against it. That is to say, you should be overjoyed to have this opportunity to present your arguments if, of course, your logic is true. How much you know for yourself, and of course how many arguments you have. The second thing is, this is an opportunity to give a special thanks to Mrs. Servant. In fact, she spoke very clearly about the figures, that according to the ruling coalition the price for a kilometer is 27 million. Which means miles, which is 729 million, given the predictions we've heard, how much the actual final amount is going to be, which means that half of the money or a little more than half of the money is going to be put in the pockets by the ruling coalition. But if I have misunderstood it, of course Mrs Slug will gladly take advantage of the right to correction, to the replica and will tell you where that half of the money will actually disappear or disappear. It's taxpayers' money, so it's very important to the public. Given that this moment is not in the hall, if it does not come back in time, I will be happy to re-apply this thanks so that it will once again have the opportunity to finally explain where half the money will disappear, three quarters of the billion euro of taxpayers' money, which the current ruling coalition obviously wants to do with this project. As far as this project is concerned, see if, for every 100 % thing in this country, everything that is being built and done is being overpaid, then, of course, this country would collapse. And with such a government, it will be sure. But this government is coming to an end anyway. It is said that it is crucial that things are done rationally, that money is spent in the right way, and that it is done primarily responsible because it is taxpayers' money. And just for the end. Since it's taxpayers' money, you keep mentioning that deposit from the time of the government of Janez Janša. You mix apples and pears again, and you know it. You've been warned about this before. It was not as you reserved money, money for the propaganda of the government, but it was a parcel in which the arguments for and the arguments against were presented. With this, the government wanted to help to introduce both sides to the electorate and the electorate. In the government's decision, however, which decided on 97 000 euros under the leadership of Dr Cerar, it is quite clear that it is money intended for government propaganda for advocacy, that is to say only to present arguments for the law. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not fair. This is contrary to the Constitution, clearly contrary to the Constitution and is clearly contrary to democratic principles.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I will try to return the debate to the argument box against the argument. Today we are primarily talking about law, we are talking about democracy, we are talking about functioning, we are talking about the principles of the rule of law. All that stuff I could say this weekend, I kind of have all these principles in this folder. We are talking about legal pay, constitutional salary, admissibility, the operation of a direct democracy represented by a referendum, in addition to a council of countries or in addition to petitions. The first question of equality of weapons is some balance, some balance in democracy. In the government or in Parliament, of course, we are talking about opposition and coalition, we are talking in court proceedings on the one hand about the defender or the prosecution and both sides at multiple stages. What is important to stress today is that the Slovenian Democratic Party has no doubts that the second track is needed. Of course, you will not convince us that it is necessary to give one centimeter of railways at a time, I repeat, railways not a super fast railway following the example of the Japanese, Germans, French, or railways at a relatively low speed, where they cost more than 500 Euros per centimeter of this track. I spoke to one of SCT’s leading engineers just before this session, how much the track cost, it is difficult to compare, between Murska Sobota and Hodoš, where speed is allowed 160 kilometers per hour. The price is 33 euros per centimeter. So, about 18, 17 times less than the second track. And if we take it that there are several longer tunnels here with a relatively larger automation with multiple security devices and so on, there still can't be any case standing 17 times more. Another issue, the so-called project, where you're talking about a new company that will run this part of the railway. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have the Slovenian Railway Company, not to list all services in the organization of the Slovenian Railway Company, Slovenian Railway Infrastructure, Planning Service, Technology and Engineering, Transport Management Service, Construction Service, Electronic Devices Service, for full automation, Secretariat of Sales and Marketing Service and so on. Against all these services operating in Slovenia with about a thousand 298 kilometres of routes, of which about 900 kilometers are single, slightly over 300 kilometers of double, I think that Slovenian railways operate with more than 3,000 bridges and approximately 94 railway tunnels at the moment. On the other hand, we have a 2TKK company, where someone who hasn't seen engineering in nearly any light is sitting, and where he and some of his colleagues will run a 27km track. I've always advocated private property. When we are talking about matters that the State is obliged to do or public or state-owned enterprises, the infrastructure that the State must provide is the right state, at a time when we have a negative interest rate on global markets, when money is relatively cheap and when we can do it relatively for a small amount of money. In a job such as the Slovenian Railways, which manages about a thousand 300 kilometres of all these routes, according to some technical or statistical data. On the other hand, we will have a total mess in Slovenia, a special company with a special status that will manage the 27km track. So I'm also speaking hypothetically, we have some Janša government doing some project, of course I'm talking about the case, the highway between Lenart and Ptuj, where I live. Franz Breznik is no longer a Member and I Franc Breznik will be the director of a 3-TKK company that will operate the highway between Ptvovo and Lenart, and all other motorways in Slovenia will be managed by the state service, that is, Dars, part of the highway, and about 20 kilometers between Ptvo and Lenart will be managed by the company 3TKK and its director will be Franz Breznik. Do you think that's normal? You think you're all right? Are we all right? Then not to say that this highway would, of course, be a mile away or an inch away, because now we're counting, standing, I don't know, several times or five to ten times as much as it costs. I hope that anyone who has a healthy farmer's mind is clear that by law on the second track with the so-called release of fog also into the legal provisions where you leave open spaces. And because of these open spaces, prices are undefined, the project is undefined financially and eventually something like what I experienced a few years ago, right there on that side was Mr. Srečko Meh, who defended the policy of the completed facts of Project Teš 6. And all the time we're stopping when we want transparent funding for this project, of course, you're taking this train to the end through the policy of executed facts. Even if we do anything, you will say yes, but now we are so far away that the damage caused by stopping this project will be immensely great. This is the policy of implemented facts, as was the case in Project Tesh 6, when it was left to itself in all these years. The second thing we're talking about is the equality of weapons. It is not only 97 000 euros that the Government has committed. We are also talking about the law you are referring to today in 2011 at the time of the Pahor government. Of course, the Slovenian Democratic Party was transported, we tabled a few amendments, which we found controversial. And unfortunately, once again, left-wing politics took that marriage away. She took him away because she was aware that most of the referendums, where people expressed their disapproval of politics, over most left-wing government policies, had lost most of the referendums to left-wing parties in Slovenia. And that's the only weapon that citizens and citizens have against will or self-inflicted government. Not to mention the media space in Slovenia. During the holidays, when I look at two officers, on one side of the evening on the other side of the work. Who owns Del? Mr. Petrich. Who's gonna work on the second track the most, who's gonna make the biggest cake? Mr. Petrich. Who owns the Evening? Mr. Polanic. What's Pomgrad doing? We know that he is building everything from Troy to the suburban border, Mr Polanic, and Mr Petrič is building this second part. So, we're talking about the media space, we're talking about a horrible machine that washes and washes every day, and we can say it's infiltrating its articles of a new lie, falsifying things, and brainwashing these citizens and citizens. This apparatus, this inequality of weapons in Slovenia can be talked about by the few, respected colleagues and colleagues. No one asks whether these media are exploiting the role, whether these owners of these construction companies who bought these media are exploiting this role. Of course they're exploiting it. Like someone who also deals with political marketing, it's the last weapon of political marketing, buying an officer who works minus. Why do you buy a clock that works minus and will work all the time as a print medium for favoring a part of the policy that wins the elections and gives you, of course, a new construction business? Over the new construction business, your profits are immeasurable. And once again this caravan goes to the media and to win the elections again, and the country is increasingly in debt after the second curve, the environment is becoming less competitive and so on. That's the result. This is the result of the Slovenian state for the last 25 years. My last argument, when you quote: “You have also had time to change the law since 2011.” Yes, in 2012 we got the government, the country was before the collapse, the banks were before the collapse, with a total minus, they didn't even finance the healthy companies that needed credit at the time, they were construction companies before the collapse, people were on the streets, the premiums on Slovenian bonds were over 6%, and so on. We were dealing with important things at the time, and we were preparing important reforms. We pulled some off. Of course, when we did so, there was a re-launch of a quasi-Slovenian civil society, the so-called KPK report, the government fell and again the left took over in Slovenia. And the caravan went forward again. That's the truth. This is the truth, respected colleagues and colleagues, and the truth is that the project as such, the law as such does not hold sober judgment, is a great danger for Slovenian public finances and therefore it is time for you to go to the second track, to this so-called aside political track and to finish such projects. Such projects lead Slovenian finances to chaos and to poor conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go, Mrs. Juliana.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Members, Members and others present! The Group of Members proposed an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly because it is convinced that the Government, with the allocation of €97 000 to the Communications Office for the implementation of the referendum campaign on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divača-Koper Railway, provided an unfair advantage in the referendum campaign, in breach of the Constitution and the International Convention on the Political Rights of Citizens. The participation of state-owned companies in the referendum campaign should also be controversial. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly finds a different situation. In view of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the competent government service designated by the Government in accordance with Article 3 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act, may also be the organiser of the referendum campaign. The sixth paragraph of Article 4 provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may, by decision, allocate funds for the referendum campaign to the competent government service when it is the organiser of the referendum campaign. In accordance with the law, state-owned companies can also participate as organisers in the referendum campaign and open up the transaction method and act as organisers of the referendum campaign to this end. The legislative and legal service further ensures that there were no possible dilemmas regarding the equality of the situation in 2013 and that the amendment took into account such recommendations by the Court of Auditors and also by international institutions or groups of countries in GRECO. It is therefore undeniable that seven years ago, the amended electoral and referendum campaign law provides funding for the government and for state-owned companies to participate in the referendum campaign. It is also undeniable that the largest political parties leading governments in individual periods have had the opportunity to arrange for the financing of political parties and referendums differently from what the applicable law provides. An analysis of the past behaviour of political parties would probably show that the largest political parties, when in power, do not want to change the laws they have in power and that the same laws disturb them when they are in opposition. It is also likely that the analysis would show that referendums often take place on time close to the new parliamentary elections and that opposition political parties are also at the expense of the referendums forging their political capital for the near elections. Nevertheless, it is the policy's task to ensure and establish such legal bases that enable people to obtain real data and to formulate their own opinions on the laws they will decide at the referendum. Therefore, it is always reasonable and necessary to ask whether electoral and referendum legislation is appropriate. If civil society is the initiator of the referendum, it should also be allowed an equal position in the referendum campaign. It's not like that right now. For example, many believe that the requirement that civil society should collect 40,000 citizens' signatures to submit a referendum is already too much of a shift from democratic standards. Because of many open questions and the near parliamentary elections, it would be difficult for me to see the current government prepare and make appropriate proposals in a timely manner, making real changes to electoral and referendum legislation. This is a difficult subject, which, in this short period until the elections, could not be adequately prepared and adopted in the parliamentary process in many other planned tasks. Good foreign practice should also be explored. Although I am personally most inclined to the Swiss approach to referendums and to ensure equal and free publication of the views of political parties, candidates and facilitators of the referendums in the media. The referendums should, in my opinion, become part of the democratic process of deciding voters on important issues for their lives. It is therefore not only the issue of funding the elections and the referendum campaigns, but also the possibility of an equal voice of views on certain issues in the media, especially public ones. In my opinion, we have a lot of problems in Slovenia with the implementation of democratic standards. And not only on a national level, but also in local environments. It is often heard that the media are biased, even though they are financed by public funds, and that their roles of democratising society and correct public information do not do well. We need to ask ourselves why free people appear before each election, why new media is being set up, which means that only individual political parties can advertise and express their opinions, and which, occasionally, usually shut down immediately after the elections, would be able to regulate people's information more rationally and independently of the size of individual players' wallets in elections and referendums. They would be asked if they claimed that the financial capacity of candidates and political parties in elections or referendums promoters did not affect the scope of advertising or the possibility of success in elections or referendums. On the contrary, we could agree that advertising opportunities in the media have a decisive impact on the outcome of each election or referendum. If that is the case, then I believe that a policy which has not yet established sufficient democratic standards in the country has been concealed so that people can be properly and objectively informed of the views of individual political parties, candidates or the content they decide at the referendums. There are also professional institutions that do not prepare such analyses at all. Last but not least, he has denied a large part of civil society that is not interested enough in regulating matters that concern our life together, and therefore too much mass and resolutely requires appropriate legal changes. In Desus, of course, we support the construction of the second track, like most other political parties and most people. However, we support construction in a transparent and controlled way. Unfortunately, I can see that there are many open questions about this investment, to which the Minister of Infrastructure and also the President of the Government have not yet answered. So let's say there is still a question, and we have also seen today this dialogue, what the value of the investment really is. Are we going to deal with two tracks or one track? Why is the investment carried out through private company 2TKK? What is actually the role of foreign partners, and what will be their future role? What will be the consequences of bringing foreign partners into this investment? There is also an open issue in the area of electoral and referendum legislation, which increases the responsibility of parliamentary political parties to create conditions for the implementation of democratic standards and for greater opportunities for civil society to be involved in the drafting of legislation. I therefore believe that the opening of the question of the democratisation of society and equality is always welcome, as it can help to raise the public's awareness of individual issues, which is the condition for appropriate changes to electoral and referendum legislation. With this contribution, of course, I wanted to pour pure wine in this debate, and I can say that I was pleased with these themes precisely because I am greatly missing the greater opportunities of civil society to be key to all legislative procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word to prepare for Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go, Dr. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr President, sometimes I am no longer in this session clear what we are talking about. The topic is supposed to be the electoral and referendum campaign law, and then one parliamentary group invites us not to advertise the referendum and not take advantage of it and talk very much about the second track, about what will be a referendum question. My opinion is that what we're discussing here today is this kind of hairline theme that the proponent is just taking advantage of through the system, if you repeat a lie or half-truth long enough, you hope it will become the truth. Why? Of course, the purpose is clear, to use the media space to spread your own vision, your own opinion. Come on, let's see what's up. Of course, Comrade Grimes said, we can thank him if we discuss here what will be the subject of the referendum, so that we who support the government side can use this for a referendum, but I will not. I'll stick to the subject we have here today. We were already talking today about why applicants, of course, are using free media space here, so, of course, if we don't count on paying for the National Assembly to operate, of course. We have already discussed why they have not proposed amending the law now proposed by the Government. Why? And they said they couldn't, I don't know what, they didn't. In 2013, when the amendment was on the agenda, the parliamentary group, one Member could propose amending the law. If I said so, yes, and now you, the position, will not accept any of our proposals, but at least we could discuss it, we would get a media space to open up this issue, to realize that something is wrong if you say it is wrong. None of this happened. And what's best for me here, and most of all the evidence that it's a diversion and one cover-up of the right purpose, is that the proponents propose to the government to amend the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act now that the referendum campaign is under way. Even if the Government would accept this recommendation, I would say, "Come on, let's take this and make a proposal to amend this law." This amendment could not apply back, so not to this referendum campaign. And this so-called change, now suddenly desired, could not guarantee equality, which is now not, but we all know that it is what the proponents are supposed to want. Even if the government tabled a bill tomorrow, if we were to change it tomorrow, the change would not apply to this referendum campaign. And that's what the proponents know very well. That's why it's a farce. Make a proposal, we will discuss it, and we will find out whether it is acceptable or not. You are qualified candidates, you have Members, you can give it. But of course, SDS is also a master of using, and it is not the only candidate to use Parliament for a campaign. For example, colleague Eva Irgl convened a referendum on the Family Relations Act, one session of the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and we discussed there about, I don't know, family, or whatever, the meaning of the family and she gave her word to all those opponents of the enforcement of the law, and then she interrupted the meeting and the session has not been continued until today. So there are different options that the applicants have here in Parliament, that certain topics should be highlighted, put on the agenda, discussed and warned, of course, forward. Now that the referendum campaign is under way, we cannot change the law for this referendum. We can discuss this in the future if you want to make a proposal. But if we do this too, I repeat, because it is very important that people understand, even if we change it now, we make a proposal, if even the Government submitted it, this referendum would not be considered. So it's just like this, poof poof, bomb-throwing, now we're gonna make sure of something here. With this proposal, we want to ensure equality for the participants in the referendum campaign. This proposal does not allow us to be clear. In the proposal you wrote, the government is doing nothing illegal and also in the referendum campaign for the second track law. Well, that's not a question at all. And the Government cannot reverse this referendum campaign in order to adapt it to the interests of the proposer. And what does that mean? It is just that the proponents are trying from one obvious truth that the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act is being implemented in the way that the Government is supposed to work by law, convince the electorate that there is now a circle of work here. There's something wrong here. Something's wrong because now the proposer doesn't like something. But there's nothing against the law. If you don't like the law, I repeat, you can also make a proposal to change it yourself. Still, but even if you give it up, it will apply to the front and not to the back, and not to this month's referendum campaign. We've already said, yes, the chief proponent, the others are gone, the SDS is here, we can talk, the others come, say, and then of course they're gone. We said that in 2007, when the SDS in the government spent 70,000 euros, figure out how many kilometres the railway is, just for the bags. This was found by the Court of Auditors. These are not some statements from the media, but this is a finding from the Court of Auditors. And now that another government is in power, it is called upon to do something that it cannot even do legally in this real time. That is why we have opposed this recommendation. And the situation is crystal clear – the government is implementing this law, which is the subject of this recommendation legally. None of the proponents even said they'd carry it out illegally. So there's no problem. The government implements the law in force as it should legally. And this meeting is just some bluff where there's a lot of discussion about the law that we're going to decide on at the referendum. We have a referendum, everything works, so we have a proper legal basis. If the Constitutional Court can determine what is being submitted to the Constitutional Court, but we currently have an adequate legal basis, which the Government respects and adheres to. And there's no irregularity here. On a legal basis, we will carry out a referendum campaign and a referendum will be held in accordance with legislation and constitutional arrangements. What's wrong? It may be possible for someone who doesn't like what's in the law, but it's valid. And the government adheres to and respects the rules of law we have in the referendum campaign. That's all it is. Those who had the opportunity did not take advantage of this opportunity earlier to propose this change and to discuss it did not take advantage of it, and that is all it is. We will have the opportunity to decide democratically, all electoral beneficiaries, whether we are in favour or against, and now there is no problem in this law. No illegality. If anyone has a problem, that's his problem. But the law is implemented correctly, and that's what's the point. Make some sense that now something doesn't matter, even though the government does everything legally, yes, it's not right. It's not right, it's not equality. This is what is a tool, it can also be a legitimate tool, an opposition, but here at the moment – I repeat for the 15th time, if necessary – the government works legally and even if I would like to now make a proposal to amend the law as proposed, and if I did everything as it was written in the recommendation, this change would not concern this referendum, this referendum campaign and also would not actually change anything because it could not apply back. So, let's go to the referendum, decide there, and this debate is just a bluff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u54	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the event that the mother's working body has rejected the proposal for conclusions, today the National Assembly can only discuss this content without a final decision. A key event has already occurred on the parent’s body. It is clear from the content of the call for today's meeting that there should be an equalisation of opportunities within the electoral campaign, because the government has decided to provide 97,000 euros to that end, and, of course, the initiators do not have the opportunity to obtain money from the budget. I agree with the explanations given in this respect that even if we went to amend the Law on Elections and Referendums, this would certainly not apply to this referendum campaign, but to the future. It is also true that it is crucial in Slovenia, however, that we have before us the fact that in Slovenia, under Article 3 of the Constitution, the people have power, and if they want to do so, it is right to be properly informed. In this way, however, it is simply impossible to carry out this procedure immediately, in order to ensure this in this process by the time the referendum is actually also announced. However, the fact is that a referendum as well as the law itself would not be necessary if a transparent procedure was conducted from the very beginning as to how this track would be built. When we talk about the second track, we need to know that it is actually on the basis of a building permit, the building permit number is entered in this law and this building permit number allows only one track to be built. It's a fact beyond which it's not possible. I have also pointed out in the adoption of the law that this way of construction will be far more irrational, because in parallel with the tunnel that will allow the construction of one track for the transport of cargo and passengers, of course another tunnel will be built, which will be practically useless in the future for freight or passenger transport, because it is simply too small after this building permit has been issued, as we have written down in the law. And this is a key problem where, if construction takes place under this law, of course, a lot of resources will be lost. Of course, the effect will be very small. I am particularly concerned, however, that if we really made every effort at the outset to obtain 80% of European Union funding for this track, the problem would be solved. Today we would not be talking about the law for this second track or the referendum, but I think we would be monitoring how far this construction is actually. At the same time, of course, 80 % of the funding also means that the European Union is in real control over this construction. And smaller than the percentage, as is now envisaged, will virtually not be monitored. This lack of transparency always leads us to spend additional resources needlessly, in this particular case also because of the referendum campaign, either because of the implementation of the referendum itself or because of all the funds to be used to fund the campaign properly or to present a position and prepare a number of materials, brooches and so on, we see that there is virtually no way. So money is spent needlessly instead of investing in development. In addition, I hope, at least, that as a company that is supposed to participate in this campaign, Slovenian railways are also expected to tell us, however, about the planned construction of this track in the project by the Transport Institute of Slovenian Railways. In addition, the written project and the building permit number under which the building permit was issued, there is another project, which has apparently been silenced carefully so that the project could be spent on new money. And here I would expect that Slovenian railways will also make public the value of the investment after this project and why it is not actually building after this project, which was built years ago. Many things point to the fact that this is really very untransparent procedures, but the worst part is that we try to close it then or say somehow manipulate people in a way that Hungary will finance. And look, for 200 million we are willing to give each other a strategic location in Luka Koper and also give the opportunity to build this second track. What have we done with it? This is the key issue why I did not support the law and why we should not support it at all without prior agreement with the people on whether they agree that Hungary will accept control of Luka Koper and traffic from Luka Koper. That's a key question. And if we also answered this question, of course this law would not be the same as it is, and this way of building will actually reach people's standards in the future. And if we lose this strategic position, we've made a very big problem for the people. That's why, of course, I was against this law. But we have to be aware that we're losing years and years for this little piece. During this period we should already agree definitively on the construction of a fast railway from Kopra, which is said to be from Slovenia all the way to Russia. This is the project that should be ahead of us now, and I am also asking the Government whether it has been able to agree, however, with the President of the Russian Federation, to build a fast railway from Kopra to Russia. And this is one of the solutions that this whole part needs, which is actually dependent on this North Adriatic port and preserves the strategic position of Slovenia. At the same time, as has been said many times, we do not have some serious problems with public finances, among other things, we do not have them, but this is artificially trying to manipulate itself by being one of the biggest problems. In short, is this agreement with Russia already reached and is it really irrelevant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go, Mr. Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u56	Thank you. What, in addition to all of this, brings us a second track and what it will do to improve. In this debate, I have greatly missed the arguments that are less exposed to political accounting in the public, but are important for reducing freight traffic on our roads and thus for safer transport and safer roads, not to mention the ecological aspect. The second track will benefit all those travelling along the coastal road, as this will make it less burdensome and thus more flowful, and will also improve the quality of the environment as a result of lower greenhouse gas emissions from transport. Let me give you the last one with arguments. According to some data, now 20 container trains transport as much cargo as 60 tractors per day. In Europe there is 13.6 loading meters of overall length for the truck, which means that instead of on the railways daily on the highway between Kopro and Ljubljana there are a thousand 632 meters and 1.6 kilometers of trucks. And the latter not only reduce the flow of transport, but rather increase the consumption of non-renewable energy sources. Let me give you the last one with the data. Taking into account energy estimates, trains would cost only €416 for the transport of cargo, while fuel alone would have to deduct €2 000 576 while realizing that trucks would consume as much as 12.5 times as much energy for cargo. I recently received the following information in Divaca. The train spends a thousand 600 tonnes of 85 containers from Kopra to Ljubljana 5 000 700 kilowatt hours, which means the energy cost of €171 per night or €245 per day. More than visual. Trucks also increase the use of motorways and increased emissions to the environment and to the health of harmful gases. Let me also illustrate the latter with data. The driver of the 24 to 40 tonnes class meeting the environmental standards of Euro 5, for example, at a charge of 26 tonnes of cargo, released 6,6 times the amount of gas that is harmful to the atmosphere and human health as a standard electric train with 61 tonnes of load capacity at the same time. Your Honor, that is why I am and will continue to support the law on the construction of a second track to get the trucks on the trains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, prepare the mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. Before I start, I'm gonna say I'm gonna stick to two tips. One piece of advice was given to me by some man when I rushed to the transport for today, with my colleague Prikl, and we came together: But don't get so angry The second advice was written by a great lady of Slovenian journalism, Mrs Dragica Korada, in the introduction to the evening already mentioned. [[..]] From this autumn forward, I will primarily try to deal with the decanvalisation of Slovenian politics. Not because I have new glasses. I'm gonna be less of a joke, and I'm gonna be even harder. Today we are supposed to discuss the issue of referendums and the issue of policy funding. But you're babbling about everything that's alive. Once about the centimetres on trains, the second time I don't know what, only colleague Jasna stuck to the darkness. If we touch the referendums, except as Americans say, the father of all referendums, plebiscite, have been mostly or abused, or should not be, because they are unconstitutional or have been forgotten by their decisions. Mr. Beznik was precise. Left parties lost at referendums. What's the point? Since he did not say left, there was no serious left in this country since independence itself. And the only weapon of citizens, let's stop blinding ourselves, so-called social democracy, the LDS was a little bit more in power than the Yanshes, and then you've repeatedly abused and exploited it. We've had referendums that shouldn't be. The last of the family, and the former of the disgraceful, who can be artificially fertilized and not. We were in the middle of a referendum, which decision was forgotten. It would not be the end of the world if the bats were closed on Sunday, even those ladies have the right to a family – this is about families – but I am not just thinking about SDS here. We had some referendums, I remember one of which most of you have already forgotten, which is a little of my area, the love of trains, how Slovenian railways would continue to develop somehow and be organizational and financial, and perhaps at the time in Slovenia we had the knowledge of five experts, and we went to the referendum. Some fellow with a good mileage said, of course, democracy costs. Just because it costs doesn't mean we can somehow be irresponsible. I strongly agree with what Mrs Juliani's professional colleagues from Desus wrote. But she said it's typical of Desus, who's going to be in the government for 18 years. Now's not the time, maybe next term. Desus is primarily responsible for the situation objectively in this millennium, since he is a nonstop member of the government. And to all of you, when you're in power, it answers that it's what it is when you're not, you're talking. Now I'm going to go into political funding. We also have a long kilometer here in Slovenia. From that read exposé of Mrs Juliana, it was even possible that professional and non-governmental organisations fell asleep and did not do theirs. No, it's not as much about the media as it is about the referendums as it is about the non-transparent financing of political parties. For more than 20 years both professions and NGOs have written about it, talked about it, warned, and mostly did not even get spaces in the mainstream media, not even on RTV Slovenia, which you destroyed with some so-called not Trčkovi, but Grims' law, which was largely in line with not only SDS. And this is the Slovenia we have today. And I could go back. I've got good associates. As early as 1992, Mr Dragonja was then Director of Lek, just over 50,000 of the marks at the time, SLS will be transferred to finance a pre-election campaign. At the turn of the century, a couple of then state-owned, parastatal companies such as HIT, Mobil, Acroni pays you on all sides, pays SDS, SD and then LDS, which is now slightly camouflaged in SMC. And the professions and the NGOs warned of that at the time. In the meantime, some English laborists suggest to a circuit then not the United Left that it will not be a mistake to listen or watch, but the United List of Social Democrats in a pre-election campaign. And we have this thing right now, look, they're very much starting out in the SDS, how we don't have the same options, but something happened to us, something that only a low-level publisher writes about and I write about, and it's incomprehensible. The neighbouring country over the construction site, over, let's say, Orban's Ivan Zidar has spent EUR 800,000 in a party troble, ending with Mr Gorenak's quote from the SDS. And 600 thousand euros for the weekly Democracy. And Jean-Mahnič did not call the Defence Committee, although it is, if anything, a hybrid fighting of the good half a year before the elections. Neither the Committee nor Mr Verbič has convened internal affairs, nor Mr Grims KNOVS, nor Horvat of the Committee on Foreign Policy, nor colleague Kamal Izidor of the Committee on European Union Affairs. You know, it's a matter of course of Orban's tactics and strategies. This is an unacceptable influence on the internal policy of this country. In every country around normal, we'd call the ambassador to the defense. And if none of you have the balls, maybe he thinks something like this is gonna happen when we get in power. You know, if Podemos, Linke or Austrian green were to wire 150 grand to the United Left in this way, I'd be the first to go crazy. And perhaps if no one has any eggs, the representative of the Hungarian National Community should say: “Wait, so you will not get involved in the internal affairs of Slovenia.” But of course, gentlemen, keep your mouth shut like it didn't happen. It's actually a tragedy to put it that way. Of course you're laughing a little there. This is also the government's irresponsibility. The Secretary of State said, "By the nature of the matter, the government is responsible." We need to talk seriously about policy funding. But you know what, Mr. Grimes is always pounding, yeah, terrorism, funding, up and down. In fact, the SDS has agreed what Erdogan is doing around the countries of Turkey to finance essentially, I will say, non-secular parties. So I'm asking you not to talk about Slovenia in the SDS anymore. You sold your vocabulary for 1%, slightly less than 18,000 euros, or 17,000 777,78. Me? And now you're looking at me a little bit stabbed, kind of like a calf, and that's how you buy an election. You're going to tell me about the Slovenians? And in a similar way, Hungary is also selling this coalition, particularly SMC. Through this mode of funding, since the referendum is not about the price of a meter or a kilometer, the referendum is about how to finance. Here you fool one and the other. If the referendum succeeds, if this law fails, there will be a fall in this type of funding, against which we have been in Levica all the time, and we have been proposing a solution that would not require this referendum at all. But when we intertwined Mr. Gasperšič, who must speak what he must say, in me not responsible enough to the Government, there Mr. Tanko shared with his doctor the rules of procedure of course “ibunge”, how this interpretation is such, different, up and down. Now I'm gonna be a little personal. In 1994, I became a young researcher at the Centre for Spatial Sociology. The first major project I fell into was Koper 2020. Back then, I was reading stuff from the second half of the '80s about the second track. In short, there's been talk of this second track for 30 years. During these thirties, someone has highlighted the irresponsibility of Slovenian politics, including some gentleman who was on Friday before the Hanzkov Commission, and said that he, as the then Prime Minister, had more work than to deal with an investment that was difficult for one week of the budget. It's usually said, you're politicians, we're guilty of everything. No, it's your fault, people who choose us like that, if we have to talk so much Catholic about guilt. Of course, it would be necessary to amend the referendum legislation and move it away from such and different policy impacts. We would probably also need a media guardian who would immediately cut his ears when someone buys 45% of any party media and then hides a post-festum in three companies that are less than 20%. You should probably also think carefully about the NGOs you're all putting on the pranger now. Each ministry has an item for NGOs where they get more, less good ones get less or nothing, and those under 45 usually get almost nothing. These are essentially the subjects that should be their own, and I'd like to see her somewhere else. In short, there are only two forms of irresponsibility and some love in Hungary. You know, my mother-in-law is Hungarian, and such policies are not favored by her, not by her right hand, not by her. – a modern center. And you're going to have a little bit more stuff, I'm coming from Maribor, on our side of Troy, we have one apartment in Celje, we always have these problems and problems, and on the one hand, the government has already spent over 400 thousand on this story. We are working on a definitely unacceptable form of influence on internal political affairs in Slovenia as if no one had heard about it. Finally, Mr. Tonin mentioned that the track was more curly and up and down, but – where were these professions for 30 years? Most of these gentlemen, who are now gathered around Mr Priest, are 70 years old and there Dani moves with his head. Where were they, after all, the days when you were in the SDS at the government would tell you, "Wait, gentlemen, this snake is a little too crooked." And now they come in somehow and they're wise, and when I listen to this debate about the second track and everything since I've been in Parliament, I mean, it's one crazy, unserious talk about money. One regular, deserving professors are talking about billions, like they're freckles. So, for once, we'll buy half a kilo of potatoes, a kilo of potatoes up and down. I mean, people like that need to get out of politics in both a narrow and a wider sense. And here too is the responsible function of citizens and citizens, and of course also of the media, which unfortunately we do not have. We have some kind of portal under the line, but how many people are watching this? At the moment, we do not have one serious medium with a greater range, except for a couple of older experienced radio ladies who actually would somehow refer to developmental content. On one side any government will, whoever comes, will be uncritically photographed. I'm looking at a picture of a government team on a nearly 40-year-old train, and it's likely Cerar didn't look around looking at what this train is like, because they've got a helmet inside the train, you don't even set these helmets on your head and look like you've got mushrooms growing on your heads. Well, that's not funny. On the other hand, there are four fifths of Slovenian media space that cannot live until Janez Janša wakes up in the morning and tells them something ugly, if not another, who is the 14-day prostitute. Even this profession should somehow ask itself about itself and some other thing, that I do not mention lawyers and economists at all. And politics should also become responsible. This house decides on money, this house decides on public cash registers, governments propose it. We haven't taken the budget seriously yet, at least since I've been in here, and probably not before that. I won't argue again, I won't replicate. I told our team to do something else. We have, say, very serious spatial legislation in front of us, which has crossed over with 500 amendments. Each profession has found one of us legally, legitimately, and I hope that we will calm down the horses here and seriously reconsider, because a whole series of things clearly indicate that we have great problems putting anything into space. It is clear to a three-year-old child that Slovenian politics must be occupied by people who will work abroad “out of our quotas”, beyond this “I have come to heaven”, people who have already achieved something in life, people who do not orgasm because we are in politics, and also people who are not as anxious about money as some. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Dr. Runcho. Of course, I agree with you that there are some debates going on over the darkness and it would be good to stick to it, as far as the relationship between the referendum and the second track is concerned. Of course, I don't mind the dynamics of your debate, on the contrary, I think it's even nice for me to be a little more animated, but with some expressions you went a little over, below academic level, and I would ask you to avoid them for a second time. Please. Good. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Good afternoon, everyone! Look what this session's gotten into! The proposaler asks for a thank you for calling her, and I say it because we could use it. Comrade Duck highlights new glasses, and I welcome this because they are blue. Two former ministers are angry with the government of pure rematchism, and I have no comment here. But the thought that marriage is unnecessary is, in my opinion, wrong. The law just defines all the elements that make this big, so far, the biggest project will not suffer abuse and malfeasance so as not to repeat history. If anything is unnecessary, this referendum is unnecessary, because it is a project that will place our country on completely different coordinates in global terms. The government measure to have a campaign seems to me to be completely self-evident, the only possible and I think that is why there is too little money, because if it is already bent on spending money and spending time to convince some of its citizens how good they will have of it, then it must already have the means to do it. However, there is a sense of panic in the fear of government opponents that this project really has great potential, that it will be implemented and that it will be successful. It's not forgiven. It is also mentioned in the introduction that there is only one ordinary railway track. Yes, it is a common railway connection, but this connection is not so common about what brings this country and Euro-Asian connections. Remember that this is the only chance that this project will start and end quickly, bringing 9 thousand jobs, that Luka Koper will launch into the list of the most frequent European ports, to allow green transport instead of the current one that is choking us to expose this multiplier effect of construction that will be far greater than some other constructions. So if you look at all of this and at all the historical fact that an amber corridor is currently being formed, in which it is not yet decided which will be its extreme sea point. You know that they are competing for this and they want both Piraeus and Bar and River and Trieste, including Split and Zadar would like their own, Luka Koper has the only chance or the best chance of being chosen because of geographical characteristics. And just when this is happening to Luke Koper and Slovenia, we have a referendum. Unfortunately, even such logical projects cannot be implemented unitedly and if you want to be patriotic, we must try to stop this project through the referendum as far as the limits are concerned. When it comes to equality, all participants have the same right to use time on state television and radio media. This is the most exposed and ensured equality. And it's interesting when you see the performances of these people on TV or on the radio, that there's always a profession, but only that profession that advocates one another's new option, which is practically impossible at this point, which will take more time, which will probably take more money, but it's now unprovable and they're taking advantage of that fact, and they never have room and time in such encounters, because there's more professional opinions, but there's only one. Didn't we ask ourselves why that's all it was? My friend Tonin mentioned that he was surprised that this route of the railway, as he said, was being twisted. Anyone who has a basic spatial perception should know that 470 meters of altitude difference can be overcome in a certain percentage of inclination with only one specific length. And you don't have that length in such a small space, unless you beat it with a circle, using Serpentine. I'm sure he takes the Prince to sea many times. He sees best what's going on there. And finally, this stone Crassus, through which the tunnels have to be pierced, is not a Pannonian low, where he could simply plant steel. If these budget appropriations mentioned by the applicants were allocated in the same parts, I am sure that new referendums would begin very quickly. We're inclined to referendums. You've seen this in the past half-life. And it is very easy to imagine that in the event that anyone who wants a referendum is provided with funds from the state budget, including the resources of people who do not want these referendums to have a referendum in short for the prohibition of abortion, to prohibit the history of national liberation, for example, perhaps even a ban or a referendum to ban a red star from a can of beer. And if we go straight to absurdity, we can also referendum that the Earth is a flat plate because I never know where we're going to stop. There has been a trend for some time now that one political option is trying to exploit people's hardships and channel them in favour of its doctrine or political desire. And it's not fair for the right to mobilize people in this way and to want to spend and spend public money. The second track undoubtedly represents an absolute opportunity to flourish the Slovenian economy. And this is an opportunity we shouldn't let go of, anyway. And the government, they can only use the public funds they have at their disposal. Other organisers and initiators of the referendum certainly have the possibility of other means. And if you look at that they only need 40,000 signatures, if each of these well-meaning signatures give them only 2 euros 40 cents, they'll have exactly as much as the government has their campaign to do. Therefore, I will not be persuaded by the requirement for the legalisation of additional funding for referendums. She won't convince me as long as there's an announcement on the ad boards of student service looking for students to work on collecting referendum signatures. So, the means are, we just don't know where those resources are. And when it comes to this referendum, which most think is unnecessary, and when it comes to the second track that we absolutely need, I believe and wish that the vast majority of citizens and citizens attend this referendum and support the second track law. Their second track will be the voice against playing on the side track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly. Thank you for the floor. Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, all representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk at this meeting today only about the recommendations on equalising the position of both the Government and everyone else, we listen to a lot of things left and right, which certainly underestimate citizens and citizens and all those Members and Members who signed the request for this extraordinary meeting, I think there are not so many. These Members have also been elected from our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This certainly relates to how those who elected us all to the National Assembly will live in the future. I must admit that I respect all Members and Members. I hope I never made fun of any part of it. However, I am also sure that if we all get one example from us – I will say that our citizens and citizens and all those accompanying this meeting will understand what the purpose of today's session is, and what I want to say – if we all get a large station for municipal services instead of 75 euros, this is water, sewerage and garbage transport, 150 euros, I do not think that there is a Member in this national assembly who would not, or at least in that week, call someone who has calculated this, to calculate something. But when we talk about millions, about billions, we say that we are using the media space to persuade the government to make fun of us, that we are irresponsible, because the country or this part of Slovenia and the economy need a second track. There's no doubt about that. I did not track the MP in this mandate, both from the opposition and from the coalition that he is against the second track. To make it easier for all those who accompany this meeting to understand that something does not count, the MP and the MP from the coalition spoke. The MP, who once was the minister of this government, said in this Chamber that she did not trust this Prime Minister and left. Today, she said that this project was imprudent and imprudent. If anyone knows, she knows who's in the coalition that's close to the coalition, she's in the government. We listened to the Minister of Defense, part of the coalition, and he has great concerns. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, don't say we're on this side. Once again, I repeat that none of the Slovenian Democratic Party I belong to has any concerns about the construction of the second track. But there's a big problem with this marriage. Now let me get to the beginning of my term. Of course, when someone was elected and they got the majority and people trusted him the most, and he was given this to happen overnight, it may have seemed strange to me. Of course, you received the majority and the President of the Government was confirmed here for the period 2014-2018. A good result in unfair elections, of course, and the president of our party in prison. But I was pretty sure the country had to move on. Sooner or later, the sky will clear up. We've come at a time when bills have to be laid down. I am firmly convinced as a Member of this National Assembly that all those who advocate this project are not firmly convinced that this is the right way. Let me remind you, when the mandate began, we were the ones on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, as the Minister was not quite sure that we would be going to build a second track in this mandate. Now I was happy to hear that this project will go into effect and, of course, sad that a law has been passed, which I think many experts working on this project are holding their head. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues on the left and right hand side, I am not an expert in this area, but all those directors, if I can call them that, and I don't think that this profession that deals with culture will blame me, have prepared this very well. I am surprised that you, as actors in this project, do not overlook or stop the other track, but this law and, of course, this company, which will suck itself up in ten years, I hope to argue, and between 500 million and 600 million from Slovenian taxpayers. That's a fact. Now, to conclude, Mrs Slug, who is not currently in the Chamber, is, of course, very much in favour of the President of the Government. That's what she proved today. The President of the Government recently made it clear, before allowing it, and of course with a bad will, that the mile of this track would cost 27 million. This has also been confirmed today by the Member of the Servant. Where did it stop? When the proposalr asked her a question, colleague Grims asked her if she could explain, of course, to all of us in this room, and to all those who accompany this meeting, where the difference was, of course, there was a moment where it was no longer possible to answer and she left the hall. In short, colleagues and colleagues, regardless of where we come from in Slovenia, regardless of which party we come from, know that this law is a doom for Slovenia. And if you do, of course, people will live worse in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc. Here you go, Mr. Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u64	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Discussions around the second track are always served by new and new manipulations. We have just received a few of them about what this marriage will bring, if they have fewer people in their pocket and so on, in short, that they will be poorer. Of course that's not true. I would say that this whole situation around this law is actually some textbook case of policy where you can illustrate to everyone how easy it is to get into the media with an idea and more, how much easier it is to actually manipulate with a variety of data and actually every idea, even the most well-intentioned, into a scale of oppression. Not to be too abstract, the second track is the story, because we've heard, a story that's been going on for years, has a long beard, and it's an idea that hasn't grown on the celery of our coalition, not on the pupil of SMC, not Desus, not SD. It is actually some kind of need for some development vision of Slovenia, after some infrastructure development and consequently the development of the economy and logistics. And this story has some sections of its own, first there's some convincing policy 20 years ago, and then there's actually some operational milestones when something actually started to happen. And one of these operational milestones was also the adoption of a national location plan. Of course, various studies had been made before. The route was adopted in this national location plan. I am not an expert on geodesy, I will not say whether it is optimal or not, but I am one of those who, as Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, was invited to the start of a referendum campaign organised by the Government, and I have had this privilege to even drive after this first track, the existing track, and I have actually seen what it is about live. Anyone who may not be aware of the appearance of this second track on the ground and who wonders at this high price of the second track, of course I recommend that he get on the train and see it as possible. It is simply that a certain altitude difference has to be overcome, that the train is actually going uphill from Kopra itself, that it has to come to Divaco, which is 400 meters higher, and that in order to overcome this obstacle, this hill needs to be found an infrastructure solution. 12 years ago, they decided that this solution would be such that the route through the tunnels would not go through some water protection area, in short, on the basis of this decision and the study of the type of variants, it was accepted that it would go through specific parcels. In line with this decision taken by the Janšev government in 2005 – I must stress this because this support for this referendum is increasingly bizarre – according to this solution, land was then purchased, further studies were done, documentation was obtained for the building permit and 50 million euros were spent. 50 million euros for a track we do not yet have, on the basis of this decision, briefly adopts a national location plan. After the adoption of the national site plan, each government has done something about this project. The purchases of parcels have been determined, they have put this project in the drawer for these or those reasons, most of the time this reference to the economic crisis and the estimated relatively high value of this project, which could also have an impact on public finances. And the most bizarre thing about this story is that it has actually continued and, in the mandate of this government, has taken it out of its drawer and has resumed on this same route, that some want to stop it today. And that's the ones who accepted this route. Of course, it raises a question for every normal person whether they had a fig in their pocket and perhaps these 50 million were used inadvertently. Because if that's the case, someone will have to answer to taxpayers. Or today it is all one game, how to stop one project and then continue it under some of its own conditions, perhaps some prestigious battle for who will sign under construction. I don't think we have time, Slovenia doesn't have time to go to such a political game. And that is more than obvious, let each one go to the field and convince himself that construction is necessary. And we hear a lot of times everyone backs up the second track. I believe everyone, but I believe there are a lot of them who have a fig in their pocket because they don't even hope to say they don't support it. Some, however, those who know the situation on the ground, I believe that this can be anyone who has ever seen an existing track, but actually wants to move, want to build this second track and, of course, in such a way as to at least, say, hurt or least affect public finances. Even for those on the border, they say they support it, but that this marriage could be a little better, I'll say, even for those I'm not sure they have a fig in their pocket. This is because, in fact, it is the law that stipulates that this second track will not only be built by taxpayers. For this reason, I am one of those who stands behind this law, because I think it is appropriate that the second track be financed by those who have the greatest benefit from it. A transshipment fee which is very problematic for Luka Koper, because then they say there will be no profit and there will be no such development. I'm not going to discuss Luke Koper's business, because we can read about a lot of different subcontractors. In short, opponents of such a transshipment tax are, of course, opposed to the law. But they do not say that if there is no charge on the transhipment, unless there is any additional participation of the Western countries, all of this will have to be covered from the budget. There is no law – it means everything from the budget. In other words, the referendum instigator says "Taxpayers do not give up", if it succeeds, means taxpayers all lady. I must also mention that the law does not merely provide for the source of this funding, but also provides for a variety of security provisions. In short, the re-emphasis of the various institutions which have their tasks by the Court of Auditors and the Infrastructure Inspectorate, and the Financial Administrations, on the other hand, on compliance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption in order for those members who go to this company to have certain qualifications required by this law. In short, all these provisions are designed for some greater transparency, and what we have not received so far, and now again some of the old currents, which really have nothing to boast about from the past, are trying to throw it out. I have no problem proposing the law and in this way communicating that one is opposed, speaking out. You will say that we speak our own, but some facts nevertheless show that some do not have the capital from the past that would have strengthened them in their position to moralise here how to carry out large infrastructure projects. That is why I am sure that this path, which we have not yet received, or that we have been involved in some other laws, is not mentioned so much now, but I will tell you in which to implement it and that it will actually be carried out with a view to making this project different and more transparent. I believe that some see themselves in future governments and will be most disturbed by this law. But it is right that and that this possibility of some manipulation, of esquirement of the legislation of the karsed is limited. I mentioned earlier that this marriage isn't even the first. Look, after all, we have one special DARS company that built the highway. I believe that this story is completely comparable in its essential elements. We could lay down that the Government could determine whether or not it would decide not to propose any law, that the second track would build Slovenian railways, but that if so decided, we know that we cannot invite any other other countries. [[…]] Not in the manner envisaged in the law or as provided for in certain capital injections. Because who will give back the capital injections in the Slovenian Railways? Nobody. I think that would be politically pointless, too. On the other hand, the focus on this one company, which goes so far in the nose, see, this company is a public company and any government will have the opportunity to influence the operation of this company in one way or another. And it seems right that in an investment that will be relatively high, the finances are concentrated in one company that is actually engaged in one activity, so that we do not give such investments to an undertaking that is still engaged in 100 other activities, to exclude the possibility that the money will start disappearing at this or that end. So the concept of law is right. I believe that everyone has their own beliefs, but most of all it bothers me that belief, because we don't need any marriage. If there was no law, we wouldn't even talk about the second track. Once again, we would have an investment in progress, just as the investment in Teš 6 started to flow, and then, precisely on the basis of the facts made, we would start dealing with it in a few years. I am convinced that it is right for policy to start dealing with such a project, even in the light of previous experience at the outset. In fact, the law is designed to do so. I also have no objection to the fact that when the concept of financing this project is laid down in the law, it is up to Members to take responsibility. That's why we're paid to take it. And if I ever have a thought against the referendum, then I have it because it makes sense for me to take this responsibility to the electorate. Even if this law falls and there will be no other track, then some will say, one part of the policy will say yes, because voters have decided that we do not need such a concept, because all of this means a backlog for all competition and all the countries with which we would like to compare. What is also disturbing and, on the one hand, indicative in this law, and in this whole process of law-making including the referendum, is that, as we have noted, this initiator does not only oppose the Second indent Act. He also announced at the meeting that he would also oppose the construction of the third development axis. And I wonder because I'm from Posavje, and a voice comes to me quite often, such as the Belokrans, who also want connections with Slovenia. We connect through the Gorjans, across the Vahta, you know how she is. I wonder if we will have future referendums on the third development axis. Will we make the same decision? Or is this something self-inflicted? And it won't be cheap! If we build highways in Koroška and in White Krajina, there are a lot of people who have bought vineyards, and a lot of people will come by and say it's not worth it because we're not selling any new vineyards. And maybe he's right, but if we're gonna think like that, then we better close the stall. I think that the country must have a vision and that this vision, which of course is also in building connections, but here I do not detect any warm water, let us remember the historical path that such a vision must follow and realize, not that you are here for some of the daily political needs of the swords beneath your feet. I can't imagine if this marriage fails, what happens next. We have a political group, a political party of SDS, which does not represent any alternative to Slovenia. What happens if the marriage falls? They say: We will build without law. Look, this is how you've been building and thank you so much, I don't want you to yet. You're funny, but the taxpayers and those who will someday feel it in their electricity bills, they won't. In short, this political action, which has no alternative, is harmful. I remember the United Left, from which today also come observations at the expense of you, all of us. At least they predicted the proposal of their marriage. Let's just say I understand what makes them think Hungary is chasing them. But with you guys, there was no alternative. From you as the biggest opposition party, one would expect you to say what you will do and why you will take your stand. Yeah, we're for the second track. Yeah, look, everybody's here for the second track, you know. In short, it is more than obvious that there is only one campaign on this issue today in connection with this referendum injection. I think it's a very interesting question, but it's problematic because you know that with him, this meeting isn't going to solve anything today. If the financing of the referendums were to be resolved, co-financing of the initiators, which could be an entirely legitimate issue, could be dealt with in any way at the July meeting. However, when you arrive, you ask for a meeting with the decision that the Government should consider a little bit how to amend the legislation, and this will not resolve this referendum. That's clear. As far as Hungary is concerned. I say everyone has legitimate thoughts about Hungary's role, but we will talk about Hungary's role in this house, I believe. But to say the alternative, I'm thinking why only Hungary, why not Slovakia. But I would like to see more of these countries and to tie them as much as possible to some transport route as we can modernise through Slovenia. Look, these are all open dilemmas, but to say that we are selling this law to any country, but it is incorrect, because this law does not stipulate anywhere, the law only allows for the inclusion of the prodigal states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferruga. Here you go, Mr. Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u66	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, ministries, fellow Members and Members! I always like to discuss issues relating to the economy or infrastructure, but when some initiatives for the meeting take place in some extreme ways, I am sometimes sad. However, I will also take advantage of today's debate in this regard in order to reiterate to the Slovenian public that the development of Slovenian infrastructure is necessary, that it is like the body's scarring and that without modern infrastructure, both rail and road, I do not represent the development of Slovenia. And of course, the government of Mir Cerar and the ministries, which have come to explain things to you today, have successfully implemented infrastructure projects and have shown for the first time, after 20 years, that the government of Mir Cerar can successfully implement projects. Again, the second track project is a successful infrastructure Slovenian project, which was finally launched by the government of Mir Cerar after 20 years of hesitation. The same is true in other areas. We have economic growth, we are reducing unemployment, in short, this government is successful. And of course, what is needed in this case is to refocus attention and somehow open up themes and set small loops or oppose projects that are successful. In this context, of course, I also see a reference to this meeting. When I follow through the entire history of this Parliament's treatment on the subject of the third development axis, we could say that this is the mandate of the second track, because we are practically arguing from the beginning, we need this or we don't need it the way we need it. When I come to the board meeting, you get the feeling that this is a meeting of a college in Luka Koper, we are going into an area that is not even relevant in certain parts of Parliament. So sometimes we interfere with corporate governance of democracy and in all these processes and the state stagnates. And of course, let us not be naive, accompanied by neighbors who do not want our development. When I cross the border in Koroška, I drive past the construction site, where Austria is already very intensively implementing the Danube, Celovac and Trieste railway project. Of course, they're quiet and they're working, and we're already arguing about how to finally establish this second track and prevent our neighbors from literally taking us over. It is therefore more than obvious that, in these forms of opposition, it is literally about envy and the nagging of a government that is successfully carrying out certain projects. I reiterate that this is a team approach to the implementation of the second track project and that the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space has already addressed and identified this at several meetings of the National Assembly. And of course, when the opposition in the National Assembly failed to stop this project, there are civil initiatives related to the opposition that begin to mine these projects again in their own way by finally being caught in some kind of trap. I'd say let the Slovenians finally pull together. Of course, I also call on all the parties in Parliament, and above all the opposition, to support such successful projects as the second track, but to recognize that this is the only way to develop Slovenia and that we do not waver in such well-established projects. The practice of civil initiatives is already our national sport, and look at the second track – civil initiative, Magna – initiative, third axis – initiative, so that we can slowly name our Slovenia as a country of civil initiatives that oppose good projects. Let me conclude by allowing my colleagues some time to present their views to you as well. I call on all voters and voters to support the second-tier project, to also support this law at the referendum because it is a good law, a good project. Whoever is against the second track is against the third development axis and also against other infrastructure projects, because the opposition offers solutions that would exhaust the state budget and further increase our indebtedness. So, without arguments and arguments and deceptions, Slovenia, we go with the second track and the third axis forward! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u67	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u68	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman! Look, the messenger used to say, if you're up against one thing, you're up against all things. I mean, I won't allow myself to talk like that in Parliament. Please warn him. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u69	Thank you, too, for this comment. We're moving on. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor and Mr. Tomaž Lisec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the government team! Why is this extraordinary session going on today? Of course, it's not a recommendation far from here. Who's not clear, it's just this, it's a referendum campaign. And if we're playing a referendum campaign, let's put it here and let's be clear about how things are. Things are like this, I'll just say it. If it were true and if this requirement were so real and so necessary that today we are talking about this, that a uniform referendum campaign is being launched and somehow distributed between everything equally and suddenly this great concern for this kind of democracy and equality at all, it is strangely clear to me that, of course, so far, in the 25 years of our beautiful country, there has been no such smart initiative. Not at the time of the electoral and referendum campaign legislation, but today this issue has come to light on this referendum and this initiative has come. What's this all about? For deliberate political conjecture, to say the least. And if people don't see it, don't understand it, then clearly you only have to trust someone, just one option that knows well and has been set up and has been here for so many years and only she knows what's right. Now, when we look at all the things that have been done to us so far, there's always one thing left in the air. And to be clear, Primorska and the Coast have been waiting for this unfortunate second track for 25 years. The concerns are such and different, but 10 governments, 16 different projects, how to get to this second track, people of God, I don't understand who doesn't understand anything anymore. It's just a hoax, and everybody here is talking about one thing, and they want another. It is one great deception and hypocrisy with the loss of political memory and some great moralization of individuals who have been standing here for some time. And one hopes and expects a referendum on Magna in a short time, because with us, as my previous colleague has said, it's already folklore. Civil initiatives have become folklore. There's no more of that, I'll say, a real political attitude. And by this way of using politics, we are depriving ourselves of value and credibility and we are leading things to such absurdity that, in fact, we no longer understand what is right and what is wrong with us ordinary citizens. And when we talk about what is important about this referendum issue and we all talk about how important the second track is, we come to a clear conclusion that we Slovenians are our own greatest enemy. And that is undoubtedly clear. Since I have too little time left to say anything else, I am for the second track, and the Coast and Primorska want to finally have this second track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u71	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u72	Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye! I will start with some rhetorical nonsense mainly by SMC Members who are obviously nervous or at a low start at a pre-election time because they know that that small bus that he brought to this national assembly in 2014-2018 will jump to one or two passenger cars. And so, among other things, in this cheering tone, SMC said: "This debate today is a bluff." Members of the SMC will then easily roast 90 minutes at their disposal. If this debate was a bluff, we'd be quiet. But not only did this MP say that the debate was a bluff, but she explained for 10 minutes why this debate was a bluff and how all this was unnecessary. With another gentleman from the same SMC Group, I got the feeling that he might have problems with concepts such as the Constitution, the law, parliamentary democracy, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the referendum initiative and other such concepts, which should be absolutely clear to every Member, which he confused and put somehow before 1990. That is why I am now even more convinced why this same gentleman is a proponent of some other arrangement and some other solutions in this national assembly. One SMC gentleman talked us into "paranoics", and he acted and spoke very paranoidly, talking about what would happen and so on. He even talked about some conspiracy theories, and then he turned them, if you, in the SDS, you always have conspiracy theories, and today his six-minute word came from exactly that, some conspiracy theory itself. And why I am primarily talking about SMC Members, because it is clear that this project is a second track of some kind of lacumus paper, not just this government, especially the Modern Centre's Parties, where they already have problems with this problem all the time. From what started at the hearing, when the minister said that we are not sure or that we do not need such a project, to the fact that in the last months of this mandate this SMC party is betting everything or 90% on a project called the second track project. And to conclude with what concerns Members of the SMC, and here we see this nervousness that they will increasingly be pleased with the President of the Government, because the fight of candidates in the 88 constituencies will obviously be very difficult in this party because they will know that they will be much less in the next term. I am now moving on to a substantive debate, which mainly touches on funding. Throughout today's debate, it is obvious that Tesh 6 Pahor's government continues through the copy-paste system in the second track of Cerar's government. If we made a table, it's almost all the same. A lot of talk about how everything will be super cool, a lot of analyses that are known only to representatives of a particular party, but when we ask members of the opposition, for example, where the data is going to be, who is going to pay for this project, whether you're sure we'll be successful on the international call that the icy countries will give and how much, why you're saying that the taxpayers will cost nothing and so on, we don't get any answers. The only answer we know is that this government has fought within its budget reserves €97 000 to address voters and voters through social networks, where in the SMC party and in the government cabinet the Piarovci have been in the last 14 days at 150% of establishments, from seeing proud MPs today, and I think that only from SMC who proudly display the ZA badge and so on. On the other hand, we have second-rated parts, which the same part, which fights almost 100,000 euros, argues in terms of if you have signed and give money to be able to make an electoral campaign. And this is some kind of green or red thread of this government. We're first-class, and whoever doesn't think like us is second-rate, and help yourself. There is a paradigm that continues from a time earlier: We are in power, and if it were not for us, it would be wrong, so it is right that we are in power. And here goes on to continue this corrupt ethical and moral policy of the Government of Mir Cerar, in particular the modern centre's parties, when it entangles long and wide about morality and ethics, while on the other hand we seriously, specifically asked questions or receive no answers or receive false answers that neither have the time nor the will nor the desire to explain to those taxpayers who will also pay these 97,000 euros. And that money will go out of budget reserves. When we adopt the budget for the following year, we will give, in my opinion, a single amendment of 100 000 euros for a local state matter, for some construction of a school playground, a gym, what kind of a mile of road, a state road, so that there will be no mistake that we still need and so on, and we will say, "Look, if the government negotiates 100,000 euros from the budget reserves just to advertise one of its projects, why don't you let everyone else get 100,000 euros?" Why didn't you say that any Member in this National Assembly could get 2,000 euros so that you could make badges for or against another track as described in the law and all these government materials? And once again, we know how it is described – a huge promise, but unfortunately it will probably be taken away from this project if it sees the light of the world, given that we do not have any, in particular, financial guarantees, but I hope that the government will then give its soul and tell itself exactly how much they are counting on the European call for proposals, and we know what the numbers are, but when and how, which are the icy countries that will not only give a letter of intent, how the second track is great for Slovenia, but that they will give a financial contribution and then round it up to those 1.5 billion projects. And at 1.5 billion worth of a project, the Slovenian taxpayer should automatically say hello, and I know this number from somewhere. Of course we know her! We know it from Project Taš 6, when from the original 600 million worth of a project in the time of the Janša government, when we all agreed that Slovenia needs energy – just an example for those who do not know if they did not have Teš 6, this summer would be half of Slovenia in the dark – but not, Pahor's government was not satisfied with some number 600 million, it first raised it to 900 million and then with the guarantee law to 1.5 billion. Even today, we are not sure whether we know or will ever know what Project Tesh 6 will cost. Like now, we have no idea what the final price of the second track will be. Once again, we know only one concrete financial number: €97 000 the government has given itself to call voters as a first-class entity in the country, and everyone else is second-rate, except for some state-owned companies, which had to jump to help, Slovenian Railways, Luka Koper, 2TKK and so on. Finally, the cynicism of the government and government supporters, who hope for some euro in this pocket or in this pocket, will be full, this morning the Alliance of Retired Slovenians has come forward, and how they are for the second track. What are the pensioners expecting? I know what they're expecting – Karl Erjavec sent his, I'll say, left wing that if the cavalry falls, he'll still survive as he survived the last, we've heard before, 18 years in all governments. In short, there are a lot of problems with this project. We have only one known thing, and this is that the government will give 97,000 euros from the budget reserves to convince voters, unfortunately also with lies, unless the government representatives then respond to where they got, for example, 9,000 new jobs, and if they do not answer exactly who is behind the financial input of this project, if we do not get it today, we know that this debate is not a bluff today, but that this second track is mainly a bluff of the modern centre's party, especially the bluff of Mira Cerar, not least the bluff of this government coalition. And here, after all, let us be honest, there is probably nothing to blame, nothing owed to the Minister of Infrastructure, who had to change his opinion overnight from “the second track” to “the second track is the absolute priority of this government”. But we know what the priorities of this government are. The government looks at international days and today is an international day and those people are priorities. Unfortunately, however, all these priorities, especially those that are wrong, such as not being able to give the right answers, and unfortunately all these wrong priorities are paid by taxpayers. Also these hundreds of thousands of euros, both the money of Janez Novak from the smallest municipality in Slovenia, such as the money of Prime Minister Mir Cerar. But that money, that money, that money that's for, or that one that's against, the government only fought for those who can talk, we're in. For those who oppose, as much as there is ambiguity in this project, the government does not devote anything. So much for this ethical and moral government, which says a lot about how we are all equal, with every law, and with each project it divides us into first-class and second-class. That is why these are matters that people must urgently decide at the referendum. And if, today, at the time of the Government's availability, we do not answer all the key questions, even many of the questions sent, if they do not answer, we will see that it is necessary to go to the referendum and circle against it because we no longer fall for the government's bluff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u73	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Vice President. If the position or coalition MPs have a brooch for the second track, then give them to us, because we are also for the second track, but not for the second track, but for two other tracks, faster and for less money. We'll promote together. I think my colleagues have already said a lot about this recommendation. We in the New Slovenia Group support it. But once again, even though I have said several times that there is no referendum against the second track, the opposite is against such a law, for the construction of such a route and for such money and against the inclusion of foreign back countries. Because if three percent of the length of our railways cannot be built alone, when and with what help we will build the rest of the network and update it according to European criteria. At this rate, we'll need five times as much money and time as Maria Theresa. I hope that these 9,000 jobs don't mean you'll be building like Maria Teresa, with the cars and the shops. Then we could really provide them for eight, nine years, but they built this in those days earlier. I previously listened to the president of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, which is a lawyer, admits that he is not an expert on geodesy, but I doubt he knows what geodesy is, because here is more important geology than geodesy. The revision of this project stated that there is a lack of geology, that it needs to be complemented if it is to be more precisely determined and the prices and hands, etc. That's right. I've been looking into it, and given the discussions that have been held today, it seems a shame to talk about the technology of building 20 kilometers of tunnels in one way or another, ATM, TBM and what is one thing and the other, because you should bring one of the sand trailers here and then make a model and drill like a kindergarten to tell you what it is and what it is. And I'm not a builder myself, I'm a mechanic, but I'm an operative, and I know what it is. There's a bunch of deceptions about the project itself. The project is 20 years old. It was not invented by Janša's government because the route was chosen in 2003, there was no Janša's government at the time, only the state's location plan was confirmed in 2005 because the proceedings had been carried out. Who did the comparison of the variants? What were the other options? I've never heard that before. I only know one variant, they say it's the Waller variants. As many land as possible, as many construction works as possible. Now someone's probably already chosen or already bought a spinning machine, that's a TBM, a machine that costs 30 million, measures 10 meters, a length of 70 meters, which is to be brought to every side of the tunnel before you start drilling. I watched a movie about how they were building a project or a Gotthard tunnel. I hope that someone else has seen it, how it is done and under what conditions, one and the other, and I will not explain it, because I think it sucks, but I doubt that there is anyone in the Ministry who knows all the discussions we have here. The construction of this route, or this variant, that goes 20 kilometers underground, that makes the appendix, as they say, going to the Italian border, even though it is meant here to rotate three tunnels of eight, the service pipe to the normal width, requires the complete need of two new tracks to turn five more tunnels, to build several viaducts, not to talk about everything else that comes along. If you want to do this further, it is necessary to re-adopt the State Spatial Plan with everything, by bringing this second part very close to Italy, Italy needs to agree. Has anyone been working on it? Will we gain this consensus? How long do we need? Nobody's done anything yet. For you it is only important that we go to build what is 20 years old, even more, since 1993 it has been 24 years since the choice was made. Why have we come up with new options now? It's not us. It's the profession. Because in 2010, this second track, this project was intended to cost 600 million, not at the end of the revision, after the completion of the audit, a billion 400. This is why new variants have come because European regulations also allow for a greater inclination, this has been shown on one committee, even up to 20 miles not only in shorter sections if the tunnel across the karst edge starts not to bridge 400 meters of altitude difference, but less and builds directly, not through the serpentines, under the ground. So no one here made a comparison after 24 years. Did technology move forward in 24 years? Science? Rules? Are they different locomotives? Are international conditions different? No one's checked. What was chosen in 2003, 14 years ago, we need to start as soon as possible and build 8 years. And the fact that this variant existed all the time – who knew about it? When we asked Members to present this project, it was said that you will see it when the audit is carried out, which will confirm this and that. It was previously done both in secret and in Tess 6. As it was said, everything was kept secret until the faller jumped when the faller jumped, and then it became clear when there was no further way back. Then they began to wonder whether the parachute had a parachute or not. The second track is the same. We're going to do the preparatory work, and we know which technology is going to run the tunnel, or the TBM or the ATM. No offers yet, no investment program. Is the investment programme which is the basis for the invitation to tender approved? As I understand it, our legislation requires that. So far, the whole question has been answered, not confirmed. Who's in charge? Will you also allow Members to confirm the investment programme as well as to impose such a law? The government could have built a second track without this law. When some threatened with a referendum, it was said that if there was a referendum, then everything would stop. When the signatures were gathered, the referendum is not an obstacle, we work on. What is it now? Did anyone respond? The government has all the competence to build this second track without law, but it must, if the law is in force, stand in Parliament with an interstate contract. Wouldn't it be better to agree with the back countries first and then adopt the law? Here the government bears all responsibility to Members, because this law states what this project is, the building permit number, the value of the project, everything is covered. And next year, when half of these Members who are here today may not be here, they will all be guilty Members. That's about the way it went to Tess 6 and now everyone knows what was going on, how it was done, who was to blame. Criminals find certain things, or they say they're honest and motivated, and as it was said, an accident has happened, we don't know who the victims are, we don't know who the bus is, we don't know anything after so many years for Tesh 6. The second track will do the same. Now it is only Yanshe's government that has adopted the 2005 state location plan and no one has done anything so far. And now we're heroes when we move on. I wonder what the situation is today. Arrangements with Hungary — How Far Are They? What activity did the government have at that time? How are the projects for preparatory work with a building permit, with a call for an operator? We're in the month of September, construction works in winter, or Primorska is, they're doing better than elsewhere, but it would still be good for someone to report on how it's progressing, not just on the hook we're going to do something. Once again, we're on track two.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u75	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak, Jože Tanko and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Nice greetings to all present! I must say that I thank all the speakers in front of me who have prepared the ground very nicely for us to be able to discuss it further. This reference, which you are concerned with regarding this equality or rather inequality, which is through this legislation governing the referendum and electoral campaign, is an initiative that makes sense to listen to. Because you probably agree that, in a particular case, taxpayers are on one side and on the other, but only one side has the right to benefit from their money. So the matter is probably also questionable on the constitutional side. Quite a few forerunners, and we have been addressed and moved to amend this legislation in the past. It must be said that the law was passed in 2011 and amendments were tabled on our part at the time, but given that we were in the same situation as in the opposition, they were not adopted at the time. The same is true for 2013 when our initiative to amend this law was given. The conclusion of the procedure in the National Assembly fell to the new government, the Pahor government, or then the government in which the SD was once again in the coalition, and our proposals and amendments were once again rejected. So don't talk about not wanting to fix it. From the beginning, we have estimated that this is in some way unconstitutional and unfair to voters. There was a lot of talk about the need, the need for referendums, and especially my colleague, Trček, talked a lot about this. He forgot to mention that the referendum also voted to amend the electoral system. And if that referendum on electoral legislation, which had travelled to put in place the majority system, had then been established, we probably wouldn't be talking about the second track in the way we have it now. This need, the need for referendums is unnecessary, because if we are in democracy and if we all have rights, referendums should also be allowed. One referendum also spoke of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, which was closed at the time on the basis of this referendum, so we may have fewer problems in the sense of a long-term polluter. There's so much on this side. Mr Dobovšek drew attention to the key issue of this coalition, namely the transfer of responsibilities from the government, from the ministries responsible for carrying out operational tasks in the country, to carry out projects relating to public infrastructure, which is part of government budget funds, so that they politicise the matter by law and transfer it to Members in charge by putting the law into the procedure of the National Assembly. It's kind of my play, because we don't know similar cases abroad. It is likely that this Commission of Inquiry, which is taking place in various areas, and in particular in the field of Teš 6, has given some thought, but it is better to get this into Parliament at the beginning, to the Members, and that is why we will be able to solve other things in an easier way. My friend Zorčič talks about open dilemmas all the time. We all have open dilemmas, from the value of this investment to technical solutions that are not known and are not specified. He mentioned that he would like more than one back-up country in this game. I think we all want to see more back countries involved in this story. However, if colleague Zorčič, as Member and Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, has a great deal of dilemma in this project, what this means only for the opposition and for other citizens who do not have any relevant information on this matter. Some SMC colleagues spoke about the facts that the project must be continued if we do not lose and there will be a disaster and so on. You won't believe this. We've heard the same things in the case of Teš 6. And I hope that at least those colleagues in your parliamentary group participating in the investigation will tell you that the sample is exactly the same. The fluid state, the facts coming to the table, and how things need to be continued, because if not, so much and so much money will be lost. Teš 6 was a similar story, and in fact it was possible to stop the project by the end of 2009 practically without damaging the country. However, in the case of the second track, you insist on this at first. Your colleague said 27 times 27, 729 million. See, in the 2DKK report commissioned by this Ministry, this government, this country, the verification of estimated value and all possible rationalisation, optimization for the project of the second track of the new railway line of Divac-Koper, this is a document that you have ordered, which we have all in the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space eagerly awaited for about 2 and a half years, since your Minister said that we do not need another track for the next 20 years, which he also thought and thought, due to the fact that we do not yet have a third pier installed, that we cannot in any case raise the transship of Luka Koper to this level, as you want to show, without a third resort, and therefore the Minister was also very direct because of his profession and clearly stated that we do not need it at this point. And you're all neglecting that. But you won't believe it. There's a billion 400 in this file, and that's your document. On the committee we also had other documents brought by the Director of 2TKK, Mr Dragonja. You will not believe it, he with funding shows a table where he writes: “The cost of a project for taxpayers of 745 million.” This is a document that you have and is also online. And now, the more we talk, we come from 729 million at a double or almost double price. I also understand now the debate of your colleague Anton Ranc, he very plastically said that you are experts in this network. Railway, road and other networks can be understood in another way. He probably meant a scar, where you're experts on overpaid stents, where even margins are more than 70%, let alone the basic price. If the analogy was to control the system, how the value can be raised and not answered, until, of course, it comes before the investigating committee in the National Assembly, this analogy is probably very similar. We have built most of the rail network without a stent, in the notes, because in this case it is not about 3% of the rail network that you want to build with one special law, which you are not sure for itself if it is good. In the debate that we confirmed this law, in your coalition group, the ladies made it clear that this is a rabble and that you are very happy that you have come up with something new. I believe this because even in the case of stents in Slovenia this is a very desirable product, which some are very happy to pay, and in the end all taxpayers cover it. And I hope that this will not be the case in the case of the second track, because I have mentioned the numbers that are in the existing documents that no one has denied, and the government has not demented them in any way. Let's keep moving. The talk is about 9,000 jobs, which is the last flower of the secretary of state, which he said at one omis in Studio at 17 where we all looked at each other in a fat, because it wasn't. But if he thought about building tunnels and a second track, there is virtually no company in Slovenia that would have references to the construction of tunnels. Markovac's last tunnel was built by Italians. So the Italians are going to hire either our people or especially people from Bosnia, and that's your 9,000 new jobs, and all the profits will go to foreign companies. Because there is no construction company in Slovenia that can build, or knows, but there is no reference for tunnels. So this information does not apply either. Even all the reasons at the outset why the law should be adopted, because without this law the project would stop and nothing could continue, could not reach the icy state in this story without having to apply for the invitation to tender, but I do not know what the reasons were for the first meeting, they had dropped when it was necessary. And also now when I read: “Slovenia has submitted an IPE blinding invitation to build...”, interestingly, seven tunnels, although there are 8 in the building permit, there are no viaducts, and you are talking about a comprehensive construction and how you will plant a shovel. The shovels in the tunnel will be planted in two years and then your government won't be there anymore, but there will be another. But interestingly, you talk all the time about how to process this in an integrated manner, how to approach the project in an integrated manner, how you have everything studied and apply for the tenders, and end up signing up a half-off without two viaducts and without one tunnel. No answer. Just as the building permit has happened to have to be supplemented, it has to be extended, but you don't make it public. And you keep saying we're up against another track. There has not been a speech on either committee or in one public presentation on our part that we are against the other track a priori. We always point out that we are against the second track by way of overpayment, as you are doing, by faking legislation and by giving an alibi to a particular firm through the legislative process and the company 2TKK. If it is your desire to pay twice or three times for such a project, we are not in the opposition. For example, I'm going to say 230 miles of motorways built over the last 25 years, the investment was combined with funding 6 billion, then talking about dollars, which is about 5 billion and a half euros for 230 kilometers of highways. And all coalitions are full of mouths about how it was overpaid. Now, on the other hand, you have a project of 27 kilometres of one rail track with escape routes worth a billion 400 after the revision, and a billion and 750 with funding, according to the company that is supposed to build it. It is 27 kilometers in the essence of one tunnel and one portal, which is built on the highway for one direction, you know that highway tunnels are dimensioned without a problem for double track. And there are no answers to these questions from the Ministry, why they are digging into solutions that are not rational.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u77	Colleagues, please allow Mr Krivec to speak his opinion without disturbance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u78	Thank you, President, because they obviously don't care because they don't understand the data anyway. For them it doesn't matter whether it's 700 million or a billion 700, their decision is to walk their heads through the wall, and that's why they don't listen. You also keep talking about the state's location plan being adopted in 2005. Of course he was. That's why I don't understand a coalition that keeps saying that nothing has been done on this project. Certain things have been done in the past and the dynamics have also been very intense until the moment the third pier was stopped. That's when this need for a faster construction of the second track somehow stopped. You all know that, say no. The key point where the matter should also be re-examined from a technical and financial point of view, which apparently no one does, was when the Republic of Italy withdrew from the project. By 2010, Italy was a partner in the project, and this corridor had also been linked to Barcelona-Kiev corridor, because the fast railway and the link was meant through Trieste and beyond the Divisco. When Italy withdrew from this project, it is either a blind track or another freight track and nothing more. For with this solution, which is now drawn, turn off all stations that are on the old track against Koper. However, you are still talking about passenger traffic and how all these regulations should be ensured. You all know that the standards for passenger transport, at least in terms of fire safety resolution and so on, are extremely expensive and therefore some reflection would be needed at a given time from 2010 onwards and you did not want to do so. There is already a double profile in some longer trenches, as evading sites are built inside. We point out that also from a technical point of view certain things need to be checked and built a second track as a double track, but under some economic variant. This unfortunate S, which probably gets stuck in everyone's throat because of a large number of individual tunnels and viaducts, which means only extremely high costs, because the tunnel costs this entry portal, and if we reduce it, it also significantly reduces the cost of the entire investment. We have been alerting these things for more than a year or since this study saw the light of the world, and when the study did not find it possible to reduce costs on the existing project, these civil initiatives and initiatives were coming in to verify the situation. That is why we do not agree to overpay some infrastructure project again, with the benevolence and thirst of the National Assembly through the law. I think it is right that this question should be answered to the referendum, because the government, regardless of the fact that there were several times when the matter could be reconsidered and looked at, has been stopped in the State Council, where there were, after all, a great number of people who were opposed to the adoption or implementation of the law. It is now possible that what you all point out is that state-owned companies can participate in financing and campaigning. I think, given that you have this number of lawyers in the SMC, you could read it. Article 4 of the legislation makes it clear that companies with a capital of more than 25% and companies with 100 % national ownership cannot participate either in an electoral campaign or in a referendum campaign, under no condition, for a half-euro. We are not talking about a government campaign that has a legitimate case, we are problematic in terms of equality, and I hope that the Constitutional Court will decide that, but in the case of state companies this is not legal. They can't or they can't explain their vision, because these companies can explain their vision of an individual project beyond that, but they can't participate directly in the campaign. Comrade Ranc, I also do not agree that those who are against the second track do not know who you thought, because in this Slovenia I have not heard anyone say that it is direct against the second track, but against financing by way of overpaying the second track three times, as you say and as you have enacted. So we're not up against the second track, and we're not up against the third development axis. Since the third development axis from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac has already been placed within our mandate, governments had the opportunity to implement it. You who have come into office could have done things physically, and this highway from Velenje to Slovenj Gradz could already be built according to what dynamics and how fast you are in your construction. All the arguments related to this when you brought the law into the procedure that this is a condition for some continuation of the project have proved to be null and void, because also in all the documents on the websites, Mr Leben also speaks of the fact that the project continues uninterruptedly that there are no obstacles, it is not disturbed by the collection of signatures, nor by the referendum initiative, not vetoed in the State Council. You don't need to marry this logic either, because you're doing everything in an inertial fashion. You know that all infrastructure projects in the past, we are talking about roads and railways, because Teš 6 is its story, Taš 6 was not an infrastructure project run by the Ministry, but was run by the company in 100% of state ownership, but after corporate management separate from the ministry in the initial phase, until the guarantee, until then the National Assembly had nothing to do with it. In this case, you want to include the National Assembly at the beginning of this project and thus obtain an alibi for later promotions and everything else that will happen. So it's a legal robbery, according to you, of this taxpayer's money in this case. And there is no direct comparison between the Tesh 6 and the second track, because the second track is going even further along a more corrupt path than Tesh 6. But, you won't believe it, you say highways are overpaid, but Dars covers all the liabilities from leased loans, the same goes for Tesh 6, at least for the moment. All liabilities shall be charged or paid from the revenue of the thermal power plant in this case or HSE. Thus, where infrastructure has been built in the past, especially in the motorway, where the National Assembly has provided guarantees, but has not adopted specific laws, the matter has gone to the end despite the fact that it is estimated that some have been overpaid. And you want, as I said, to legalise a specific system of drawing money from the budget by law, which will continue to receive new innovations. And if this coalition endures to the end, it is likely that Mr Dragonje's assessment of the amount of billions and 750 thousand euros will be followed. And against that, we're in the referendum, not against the second track. We need a second track, so all the previous governments put it in. There was a talk earlier about the extraction track, about the updates. 350, 250 million European funds have been invested in the last period in terms of upgrading the second track, the station, the extraction track, the modernisation of the energy supply of this line, and you say that so far nothing has been done on this section and that you will plant a shovel. If they were at least right and they said we would plant the shovel in the tunnels, but no, your documentation says, "The tunnels will be built in two years' time." You will be building only preparatory works at this time. Here is a big analogy with Tesh 6, where there was a speech that certain works had already been done and therefore it is necessary to cover the matter back and sign the contracts. That's your goal. Therefore, taxpayers must quickly grab hold of their pocket and keep their wallet and vote in this referendum not against the second track, but against the law on the second track, which essentially takes too much money from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u79	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Mr. Jože Tanko and Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u80	Thank you very much. At least I usually try to argue with those who spoke the most nebulosis in front of me. However, since I was gone for two hours or more, I was absent, of course I will focus on what was happening on the committee that addressed this topic yesterday. And before that, a few general phrases. I think you've done relatively well to show the opposition as well as the initiators of the referendum and someone else like those who are against the second track. The Slovenian public needs to be very clear, and it is very clear that on this side of the opposition I think that even in that part of the opposition there is no one over there, I emphasise, anyone who is against the other side. No one. But there is another story that can be checked by a very average internet user by clicking on Switzerland, clicking on Germany, Austria, which is geographically similar to Slovenia in this context, and looking at the rail websites of these countries, what it costs, if you like, a mile away. And what will people be able to figure out? About once less or even more than once less than you have planned in this law or as much as you plan. What does that mean? That we're against putting about 800 million dollars in your lobby. We're against it, not the other track. Okay, but that's not even my theme. But this topic that we have ahead of us is campaign funding. And now I have to be honest with you about what happened on the board. There was an expected event on the board when we had the meeting. Mr Möderndorfer has been tortured, this must be acknowledged honestly, he has sought some arguments and said them. Mr Radič said the sketch, in fact he was preparing for his future job on the Murski wave or where he had already worked, the sketch said and used the wrong data. And I've been talking, too, a lot. Well, the SMC machine, including the pensioners and the SD, was sitting there to play the role of the voting machine. For 3,000 euros a month you sat there, ladies and gentlemen, you didn't say one argument, especially people from SMC, one argument, you just pressed the button for three thousand monthly wages. If we had any arguments, we'd say them, but you didn't have them. That was on the board. Let's move on to what else happened on the committee, a couple of flowers that happened. 48 thousand people signed the request for a referendum and there was an uninvited guest, Mr Kovacic, the committee did not invite him. Then they said yes, because you could suggest it. Even if I had a proposal, the president could have cancelled it because he's deciding who's to be invited. Well, then we voted whether Mr Kovacic would get a word on behalf of 48 thousand people or not. We voted – what? That he got the word. But the humorist from SMC was also against it. He voted against giving him a word to someone who has 48,000 people behind him. And 48 thousand signatures are opposed by someone who's won, I don't know, a thousand or two thousand votes in an election or three, because it doesn't matter how many, you know, it's a moral. Let's move on. What are we talking about today, and what is the fundamental problem of the point we have on our agenda? That the government has given itself 97 000 euros, which, alas, it has earmarked from the budget for the campaign, i.e. the taxpayer's money, including mine. The government is now bombing me with taxpayer money, including mine, and convincing me to be for this marriage. Yes, but I won't be in favor of this marriage if I've been against the law and of course I've signed a request, so I'm among these 48,000 people. That's what it looks like now, you take my money and you convince me with this money to support you. You're funny. Legislation of such a situation – that there would be no misunderstanding if doing it unlawfully within the meaning of the applicable law, would be louder and the law in force since 2011 would make this possible. We were against this article. We voted nine. 2. 2011. The amendment read: “The second and third paragraphs are deleted.” And then the coalition said no. If our amendment were adopted in 2011, then of course there would not be a situation that the Government could take the money for itself and convince us how to support it. There's been some such nonsense. You know, this is what it looks like, today I gave one comparison, this is exactly the same story as putting someone in the pool who has to swim 100 meters, and then empty the pool into 5 centimeters of water, and you tell the other, and now you fly this 100 meters, and you declare him a winner. Yeah, of course he'll win if you have unequal conditions. If Kovacic doesn't have 97,000 euros, the government does. And now we have heard on the board one terrible nebulosis that the government is in a deprived position. That's crazy. Yeah, the way she's in a deprived position, if she's got 97,000 euros on her own, but she told Kovacic, and you get nothing, so the guy who collected the signatures and has the contract. Even more when he wanted to collect this money from people with the help of text messages — impossible, impossible. And then you convince me that this is a stand-alone decision of the operators. Yeah, great, come on. Nebulosis. Of course, it is also a stand-alone decision of Work, Diary, Dinner and someone else to support you. Yes, of course, if this is a regime paper, if this is your paper, if this is your newsletter, where you order what you want. It's not going to work out. On the one hand, we have 97 000 euros that the government has taken away, and on the other hand, it has an instigator of the Kovacic referendum, which has zero coma Joseph. Now, you'll say, it's legal. Yeah, that's legal, I agree, but most likely unconstitutional. Probably unconstitutional. In view of the fact that not only the Constitution, the Elections Act, the Referendum Campaign Act, which they speak about, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the OSCE recommendations, say that the referendum must be balanced and that no participant should be in a privileged position. And we have that condition. The government has taken 97,000 euros, the initiators of the referendum have nothing, even disabled to raise money. Let's move on. The law is clear. The law says that state-owned companies cannot participate in an election campaign, in a referendum campaign in this case. We have at least a few state-owned companies like Dars, like anyone else who has reported participating in the campaign, but now they say, no, we're not going to spend any money. Look, this is a lie again. Even if they don't spend any money, they gave at least 10 euros to open the account, and even those 10 euros are illegal, including those 10 euros to open the account. It's an illegal situation. But if you've applied to steal time at some confrontations, there's another question. This is a question of morality and honesty, for they have probably applied to take pictures there, and they will stand when the confrontations are so that others will not have to say what they would like to say. There was also a lot of talk on the committee, as this project was launched by you during the first Janša government. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the national location plan or what it's called, was adopted at the time, we didn't decide whether there would be two tracks or one track or there would be ten tunnels or one tunnel. We didn't decide that. That's what you decide, and you convince us about the so-called second track, but it's really one thing. But you don't know why it's going because every five minutes there's a second statement by government representatives. In fact, the equality of the participants in the referendum campaign is also discussed in our law. Indeed, the electoral campaign law very precisely sets out the limits to which it can be addressed and the situation of equality of participants and says that this must be ensured. Is this now equality if the government has given itself 97,000 euros, the opposite camp, and therefore Mr. Kovacic's camp nothing? It's not. And it would probably be far, far the best and far, far the most correct if you wanted, if the Constitutional Court, at that time, also decided on this issue. And on the board, you convinced us that, of course, we're wrong, how it's all right, and that I don't know what it's all about. Yeah, well, that's what we heard when we took the mandate. You were the smartest man in the world. Yeah, we heard the same thing, and then you got them by the Constitutional Court. And the same story repeats itself here. Same story. You've also read us so that you can change this law for me. When? When? The law was passed in 2011 and, in fact, we had no problem with this law until this year, because even in the previous referendum, the government did not use the funds for these purposes, but now it is. In short, if I conclude, there are some problems with this, but above all there are very, very strange interpretations that the government is deprived. Yeah, you're funny. The government, which has access to all the media that they extend across the media, will give 97 000 euros and now says it is deprived that Kovacic is in a privileged position because he can raise money. That's an abject thing to call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u81	Mr. Jože Tanko, please, you have the floor. Behind you, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I would be very ashamed to be a representative of the coalition where the government sent six officials to the National Assembly, six top officials, the Minister was here earlier, and that in the seven hours we've been here, she hasn't said a word yet. Not a word. Except what the Secretary of State read in the introduction. These are government experts. That's why they're here. These are not now people who know nothing about the project, who don't know anything about the referendum, but they are people, one from the public administration, the other from the department that covers it, and they haven't spoken a word yet, but they have a badge for it. How to trust these people to know something about this project is that what we read and what they frame the public through various, I don't know, press conferences where there is no chance of facing the other side to hold it. They're afraid of confrontations, and that's why they're quiet today. They still have half an hour at their disposal, and they haven't spoken and they haven't bothered any more data that my colleagues have told them. Not one. The MPs here are talking, I don't know, anything from A to Z, what you read, what they write, and so on. What's holding what you said? One information was not confirmed by your government experts in the National Assembly. He doesn't want any of these people talking. That's why they're also fighting any kind of confrontation, and that's why they don't want to share the money that's meant to be for the referendum campaign because they're afraid because the data isn't standing. The Prime Minister says the price for the second track will be €27 million per kilometre. Dronja’s method, which is the founder of 2TKK, is not a policy anymore, but an expert in particular for this project, says a billion 700. In between, there are billions of euros of differences between the two who talk about the second track, and in between, there are different officials, state secretaries, some minister and so on, just to run away from the public. At this point, there is a billion euro difference between the two figures. Now calculate how much it will lose or how much it will cost in one form or another for every citizen only in this billion. Each citizen will be deprived of 500 euros because billions of euros means 500 euros to a citizen. You will take over via VAT, you will take over increased contributions and so on and so on. Mr Secretary of State, Mr Leben, who is in charge of this project, says or can only say what they write and what they read. He'll read it. What he reads doesn't hold, because he doesn't hope to get up here and tell himself I'm behind it, and I'll give my house up for it if it doesn't. There's no one among you to do that either. I ask each of you: If, say, a municipality came with such a project to the Ministry of Finance for a clean-up agreement for European funds, would the Ministry sign an agreement on the assignment? Would you? If this does not apply to municipalities, if this is not acceptable to municipalities for a municipal project, it is likely that the government is subject to the same criteria because the Public Finance Act is exactly the same for you, for the municipalities and for other legal persons. If you've avoided this nonsense, the real application of the Public Finance Act is by adopting a special law, which means only lumbarism. They're just lumming and nothing else. And you know, it's hard for anyone to convince among sane people that the Swiss track with probably harder terrain than ours, about half to one-third cheaper than ours, even though the wages there are three times higher than ours. Now tell me where the difference is. You will use the same technological equipment for drilling tunnels, the same track, the same ground, because if you are to design at so much and so many kilometres of speed and so much tonnage, the base must be the same as in Switzerland, it must be no different or there is no need for different loads of tracks, fi, heights must be the same, sliding surfaces the same, slopes the same, height of tunnels the same – where is this difference now? If you take Austrian data for their projects, you'll notice the same thing. It's the same in Italy. So something's really wrong. For those who think rationally, there are probably no dilemmas. And there's something else I'd like to say. Apparently, the government representatives here are just competing, who will be quieter and who will last longer. Whenever we have an important meeting of the National Assembly, any important project, five, six hours, seven hours of complete silence, let it be an interpretation of any important project. Any one of them! You are paid not to participate in the work of the National Assembly, but to sit down and just say your abstinence, that even God will not move you, no question, no dilemma, no thought and no matter. But such sitting and such silence is only characteristic of an institution called the Mafia. It's the only place quiet. There's a death there, just like this government. Government officials come here and you're quiet. Perhaps the Prime Minister of the Government, and also your district minister, one and the other, has ordered you not to let God hear from anyone. In the end, you will read each one of the references. That'll probably be the end of this. But this is an approach that is not typical of democracy, and it is typical of societies with oligarchy, where the law of silence rules. And it's typical of a system that deals with clienteleism, corruption, theft, crime and so on. And about this situation, today this country is in this state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u83	We are moving to the conclusion of the general debate. Excuse me, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, you have one more minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u84	It's two minutes, I think. Well, I'll be quick. The coalition, after all that I've heard today, is scaring you with one fear and, as a result, madness. And I start where fear is. It is a fear that you are afraid of the citizen of Kovacic and that you will pay away from the budget 100,000 euros to convince the citizens that you are right. You need 100,000 euros for your ads. Yeah, what if your project is so great? And crazy, there's a lot of crazy about this project. As I have already said, for a meter track, Slovenian workers must work for 7 years. You're willing to give 500 euros for an inch of track. For 27 kilometers you go to law school and set up a society. The madness of madness. And of course, because citizens and citizens will not just open their wallets, you accept different forms of privileges. And one of these is this 100,000 euro. I heard today that this one is in line with the law. It is, Your Honor, in accordance with the law, but it is not necessary. No one forced you to take 100,000 euros out of your reserves. Is it not necessary to give this money to someone else in this country? So we can listen to your ads about how right you are. No, you're wrong. You're wrong. And not just that! You are so afraid of these citizens, of us Slovenian citizens and of citizens that you did not dare to hold a referendum along with the presidential elections. You didn't get in. Because you knew you'd burn. And here lies your fear. And I hope that despite your efforts to prevent an equal campaign, despite your efforts to use taxpayers' money for valuable advertisements, citizens and citizens will say no. No, it's not going to be 500 Euros per centimeter! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u85	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. First of all, the representative of the Government, Mr Jure Leben, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you for your word. That's a nice greeting from me! I'll just start from the back. Mr. Tanko, you know, I'm not afraid of you. Don't worry. However, I would like to tell you why I am not calling today because I was invited to the next meeting, namely, the Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of conditions for ensuring equality of position in the referendum campaign, financing the referendum campaign and balancing the possibility of presenting positions. As I am aware of this, this topic does not cover the technical solutions of the routes and so on, the project itself. But I respect you because you're older, and that's what they taught me. However, I would like to say that during the debate there was a great deal of appeal to the public themselves. I would like to touch some of this, but not so much again, because we are not here today because of this, we will have time for this after the referendum campaign, we have had a lot of time on the committees themselves, and I am happy that we will be doing a lot of work on this second track project because we have been doing this for six months now. First of all, about the price of the track. Some of us watched movies, some of us went to the field, so we could learn how to do it on other projects. We have 27 kilometers of track, and we can all agree on that. Of these 27 kilometers, there are 20 kilometers of tunnels, plus 16 kilometers of service pipes. I'm not gonna go into the details, but I'm just gonna say that we're all gonna get along. These 16 kilometers of service pipes are valued at an equivalent rate of 8 km of equipped tunnels, meaning that if there is an empty pipe or an equipped pipe, there is a different price, so we said 8 km of equipped tunnels. So we have a total of 35 kilometers of pipes. If we divide 961 million, which is now estimated at construction work, from 35 kilometers of tunnels, we reach 27 million miles per kilometer. More is also published publicly on the website of the project itself. If I get a little bit more connected to those tables at the Commission's Public Finance Supervisory meeting, we can see, but also by magnetograms, that we are beautiful more often, if I am not mistaken, Mr Dragonja has explained even three times what the figure in this table means. This is publicly available in magnetograms and this thing has been very well explained. One comment that we need to be correct. I have been corrected, I publicly commended you for the route approved in 2005 and for which 80% of the land has been purchased before our term of office. I have publicly commended that through all the steps taken by Jaspers, it has come to be the most appropriate route. Remember? Studio at 5:00. What did we do? We continued our work, we got a building permit, we folded up our financial structure, we started talking to European institutions, and we're just here where we are. There's two more things I'd like to talk to you about. One of these is transparency. Yes, the law was adopted by emergency procedure. We have already cooperated with civil initiatives during the adoption, and we have already included in the project and financial council of the representative of the civil initiative. There was still a lot of corruption up there, corruption down there, what we're listening to today, and we can all remember, control is the Financial Administration, control is an inspection, control is the KPK. We have gone so far as to continue to listen to corruption up, corruption down, to give to the Government within one week, the Minister will make a proposal to the Government to set up a project council, a public call will be made, and we will invite representatives of civil society to join the project to monitor it further, to try to eliminate these issues of transparency as much as possible. At the same time, we all know that we are drawing on European funds. On the part of the European Commission, those who have already done European projects know that you need to report exactly why every euro has been spent, and we can be aware that the Commission will be looking at every cubic of excavated material where it was taken and how it has been settled. In addition, we have control of the European Investment Bank, where we will apply for the guarantee of the EFSI mechanism, and will also carry out a third level of control of the project itself. To conclude, I am very well aware that the referendum campaign is under way, that we have elections and that is why we have placed a clause in the call for preparatory work that if the law is not enforced, the preparatory parts will not begin. We're aware of that and we'll move on in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u87	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nitz Brezovar, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. One pleasant greeting again in my name. In the end, I will only touch two points that are actually related to the topic or to today's agenda. The involvement of civil society in legislative procedures and the kind of obedience that has been given here has been mentioned. As already mentioned in the introductory presentation of the opinion, the government, of course, cares for the wider public interest, for development and, of course, for strategic development projects. Therefore, it is not natural, as Dr. Trček said before, only the fact that he cares about all this, but is natural, that he is concerned and wants to participate in the referendum campaign because, of course, she is interested in the outcome of this referendum campaign, which she considers to be something positive and, of course, in the wider public interest. However, the confrontation itself must, of course, be based on arguments, on the strength of arguments and not on a power argument. It is therefore important, of course, to listen, but after all, all the arguments are weighed, whether they are professional or any other. I think that the essence of today's debate is, of course, something that could call equality or inequality in this referendum campaign. Even a privileged position is evident to the government, particularly as regards the financing of these referendum activities. As for this, I will, of course, defend the position that is justified, and that is that this unfortunately does not hold up in the way that has been tried to present today. Indeed, as far as the government is concerned, the government is, of course, the most limited in the amount of resources it can spend on the referendum campaign. In fact, only a quarter of the amount that could be earmarked by any other organisers of the referendum campaign. Let me also mention at this point, which has become a little mixed up today, we are talking about two different things. We are talking about the organiser of the referendum campaign and we are talking about the one that is also funding the election campaign. The organiser is a very broad concept, wider, it can be any legal or physical, domestic, person who is of course interested in the outcome of this referendum. If we looked at it, we'd find that there are 32 registered organizers. I think that's the information that was available today. These organisers are not only not only not to be, but some of them must not also be campaigning financiers, but they are very different from civil society representatives, different movements, and societies to political parties, economic societies. Of course, they do not all apply to the same rules, once again as regards financing. They don't work. And in this case, of course, companies are limited, i.e. they must not finance referendum campaigns. Similarly, it is particularly limited in substance to the Government, which, apart from the funds mentioned above, must not acquire other funds for the purpose of financing the electoral campaign. It was mentioned that the government was deprived. In a way, unfortunately, even though Dr. Gorenak may have thought it was funny, it is true. In fact, he can't spend as much money on a referendum campaign as anyone else could. There may also be a questionable principle of proportionality when we discussed legal principles today. Of course, it is crucial in the referendum campaign that the general public and citizens are as well informed as possible about all information, both professional and, above all, accurate information, due to the principle of transparency. Therefore, it is, of course, possible to enter or involve the various organisers of the referendum campaign as widely as possible, so that they can present their aspects or why the outcome of the referendum campaign is important to them. Let me also mention that the way the government has entered this referendum campaign is virtually no different than some past referendum campaigns, we have already mentioned the Small Work Act, the Archives Act, the Black Work, pension reform and so on. As such, the government has already cooperated in the same or similar way in past referendum campaigns. Finally, let me mention what has already been pointed out that there is no doubt that the government's conduct in this case is legal. The opinion of the Government is also that the law, as far as this work is concerned, is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u89	The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. What we had the opportunity to listen to from the government today is, in fact, similar to some advertisements. Well, at least something cannot be read to this coalition and its government – they have some sense of humor. First and foremost, Parliament is a policy, it is a party, but the government is an expert. Yeah, and then, chocolate turns the whistle. But you know, that's the last one in the commercial when the whistle turns chocolate. By the way, how does the government come about? Yeah, people are named by political parties. That is said, the government kind of reflects the composition of the ruling coalition. One way or another. Then the answer to that fundamental question today is whether the government deserves, deserves, has this right, is constitutional, it is correct, it is fair, it is in accordance with international rules, such as the protocols for the implementation of referendums, which are international acts, and the answer is no. Because the government is also made up of party people. And just as it has the opportunity to participate in the SDS campaign, it has the same SMC, and it is even bigger, it will have more money, it will have the same Desus and the same United List or Social Democrats after the new or the old and so on. This is said to be automatic, only in view of the proportion of political parties is the most money already on the side of the ruling coalition. Then why does the government have to cut into the pockets of taxpayers and take the money for themselves? Whether the government is convinced that it has a completely incompetent coalition and that it needs special money if not, it is extremely rude and unfair because it puts the referendum's candidate in an unequal position. You're right about the one you said, yes, because there's a law that made it legal. This is true, only, ladies and gentlemen, in the SDS, we have strongly opposed that law because we have said that this is not in conformity with the Constitution, not with constitutional provisions, not with international rules governing the field of referendum and the area of direct participation of people in decision-making or in the management of public matters. For the fundamental principle that must apply in democracy is that information must be made available to all under the same conditions, in an easy way, continuously lit from different angles of view. It is therefore permissible to use public funds in a way which is just the same and equal for all. However, the government cannot take special money, although its political parties or its coalition have more than the entire opposition, significantly more, and the referee gets nothing. This, of course, is the end of democracy. It turns democracy into a farce. This means that someone is being pushed and someone else is taking up the opportunity to give their opinion. This is in complete contrast to what you have been referring to in a very conscious, manipulative, false manner to many in this debate when you were talking about that piece that was made in the time of the Yangtze government. For there were equally represented both sides, arguments for and arguments against. But what your government has decided, these 97,000 additional euro taxpayers' money is for their campaign. This clearly follows from the Government's decision. This is not about equal information to the public, but about the government's campaign, which is also being paid and advocated by the entire coalition, and is therefore already in a better position. The same is true of today's debate. Many of you have started today's debate, and this is a pre-referendum campaign. Yeah, then you could throw yourself into our arms of happiness, because there are more of you, you have the right to more time and you claim that all the arguments are on your side. That is to say, we have allowed you here today to present all the arguments for your project in a long and broad way. Then why are you afraid of that? Yeah, you don't have any arguments. Yeah, well, that's another problem. Or some argument is very strange. And, speaking of strange arguments, I would also like to thank Mrs SMC, Mrs Slug again at this time, for she has said nicely that the real price will be a kilometre of new track, I quote, “27 million”. Which means 729 million in length will be the real price. But there is only one problem – according to the government, it is expected that money will be spent once more. So it's nice that she said that the ruling coalition would put about as much money in their pockets as it would actually cost that track or another track. However, if I misinterpreted it, of course, it will now be happy to explain, in a reply or in a replica, where three quarters of a billion euros will disappear. That's what we're interested in, believe me. Because for an ordinary person or a citizen, it is still a relevant information that the 97 000 euros, which the government takes in addition, obviously wants to blur. Because for an ordinary citizen it means that the ruling left coalition will reach into their pocket, rip out everyone, including the baby, a thousand euros out of their pocket, and put them in that second track. A thousand euros each. For four or five-member families, it's 4 to 5,000 euros, that's already for one car. Only for 27 kilometers of one track. But you know, this is going to be 518 euros per centimeter. One centimetre of track, 518 euros! No wonder all Facebooks are full of jokes when people report they're going to build one or ten meters of track, but they expect the government to wire that half million euros to them. To say that this is such a demanding project because of geology, and with all due respect, but there are some international standards that do not exactly support what the Government or the amount of money the Government envisages. Because according to these standards, the actual price could be the most, but under very special conditions, somewhere where Mrs Slug said, and certainly not twice as much. Do you know what a billion is or a billion and a half euros of money is? That's enough to build another particle accelerator, the world's most expensive accelerator, that's a Hadron accelerator in Cern, had the price of everything they've done, 3.2 billion. And go look at the length of underground rails, tunnels, all surrounded by superconductive magnets that are monstrously expensive, not to talk about all the top technology embedded in those pipes. Now compare this to 27 kilometers of the ordinary track of one track, from which, according to the Secretary of State, there are about 8 kilometres of tunnels, I can also use difficult tunnels. So compare those two. Ask yourself how the devil the government can afford to take 97,000 euros out of the taxpayers' pocket to use the oldest left-wing trick that exists, then point to someone else with his finger, see if everyone there sees how deep it has already reached your pocket and how big a pile of money is pulling you out of your pocket again. And you like lefties if you're happy. It has been said that this is the destruction of the most important project. Ladies and gentlemen, no one in Slovenia is more interested in faster economic development than the SDS. However, a framework should be set in which entrepreneurship will be a value in which entrepreneurship will not be burdened by new and new to absurd tax burdens. And appropriate infrastructure must be put in place for a rational price, ladies and gentlemen. This price, which you have here, is exaggerated, even by the words of your Members, by 100% or more. This is said to be, according to the local word, for someone to clean up in their pockets either with commissions or in other ways a huge amount of money, with which they will probably buy some more elections in the future. That's all it really is. The law to be decided at the referendum, and we will decide in a short time and for which the Government has now taken an additional 97 000 euros, without allowing one euro to the proposer to present arguments against it, is, of course, a law that is not necessary at all. All of this could be done by the Government under existing legislation without this specific law. We have Slovenian railways, they have all the appropriate infrastructure as a company. How you decide to spend money, you know that. So, all of this, the law itself, and especially the extra funds that the government has now taken, are fog. They're a fog so people don't see clearly how irrationally their money is being used. This money, ladies and gentlemen, is the money of Slovenian entrepreneurs, they create it, they and their employees. And that is why the burden of working in Slovenia is the highest in the world and we are at the top of the Forbes scale, unfortunately, only after the tax burden of work, which you are further inflating. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing at least four more laws, according to publicly available data, which will further burden entrepreneurs, from espies to all. Only once will this socialist paradigm mean that a citizen or an entrepreneur is a tax cow that can be squeezed into unconsciousness, it will have to end, because otherwise, everything will be lost. You know how it was with Cardel's cow, don't you? And she was hungry and hungry, and then in the end she died, and he said, "Yes, and I had so many good ideas." Well, that reminds me very much of your government's debates about where you're going to introduce any new taxes. And Slovenian entrepreneurship has even progressed a little lately. It's the lowest point, but it is. But despite what your government is doing, it's not because someone doesn't understand. And this isn't about destroying any development project, it's about destroying irrational spending, the irrational spending of taxpayers' money. This is not the case with the taxpayers’ money, with three quarters of a million apparently going into smoke, inside this amount that is projected, they are building some ultra-modern accelerator of subatomic particles and thus accelerating the development of science. But it is obvious that one money laundering accelerator is working to finance the current political options now that Teš 6 is closed, is no longer active as a money launderer, but one new one opens. And we're from Iran in Slovenia. The campaign is not just about spending money irrationally, it is also unfair, and it is our firm belief that it is clearly contrary to constitutional principles, if you want, but also through international rules, that it is using money. Here are paragraphs 14, 15, 44, 39, if you want, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, crystal clear. How money is spent, how is equality before the law, how is equality in decision-making of matters of public importance, how is it direct decision made by the Constitution before all other forms of decision-making, because the people have only one authority, all other forms. Here's the thing. It's clearly a contradiction to the Constitution. In addition, I remind you of Article 25 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the Code of Good Referendum Practices and, last but not least, Article 10 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is being enforced, is in fact working without purpose, without purpose, on the right to freedom of opinion or expression, because things are no longer equal. You give one a huge head start, you give one nothing to the other. Is that democracy? This is the moment when democracy becomes a farce. For if they do not all have the same opportunity to present their opinions, especially at that time. When it comes to elections and when it comes to direct decision-making at the referendum, such democracy becomes, unfortunately, just a farce. And the responsibility for this is here and now on the ruling coalition and on its government. I would point out that Ireland faced a similar problem years ago, and that was decided by their Constitutional Court at that time, which was perfectly clear that this was unacceptable, that no institution had the right to special resources, since all must have the same right and equal duty and equal opportunity to present their views. For as the Irish Constitutional Court has written down, the decision is only of the people and of the people, for the people are the supreme sovereign. No government has the right to absorb any additional taxpayers' money to issue an enormous, excessive bill to taxpayers for some sort of track, which is probably a track, yes, in the brighter future of the ruling coalition with that money which, according to the Member's words, will put three quarters billion in its pocket. Unfortunately, such things then follow the actual development of the Republic of Slovenia. In some ways, the fact that there are three publicly owned companies that have announced participation in this campaign and have opened up special accounts for it is also very well illustrated. By the way, you won't believe it. They've already used up funds they can't afford. Interesting, but not. By saying that, after they had been warned, they did not know that they did not intend to participate in the campaign in a paid way, but had already paid, so that such excuses were ridiculous, that they intended to participate in the presentation of opinions in the media at that time and where it would be for all open spaces. Now let's go in one order. If they take up one part of the space, for example, on public radiotelevision paid online by taxpayers, that means they take it from someone else. This means that, once again, the ruling coalition has benefited from another abuse of legislation, which has perverted the right to an equal presentation of arguments for and against. That's all it means, nothing else. Everything else is a pretty word, which in that case means nothing at all. One more thing. Today, something has even been said about rationality and that this debate is over. You know what, ladies and gentlemen, if you, your government and all the officials you've set up were rational, then this referendum we're talking about would be announced at the same time as the presidential elections. Which I could have been, and I should have been. That would be the only rational thing, but because of the political bill, you'd rather have $4 million of taxpayer money thrown out the window. Thank you for this goes to your ruling coalition and to your President of the National Assembly, who has decided so, despite the calls, despite warning him not to do so. This is purely a waste of money, self-sufficient, for the political achievement of a specific political objective, which is later misused accordingly. And that is why you have no moral or other right to speak about rationality, because the way you spend money is a shame. Not only is it a shame because it is hard to earn the money of taxpayers, entrepreneurs, all citizens and citizens, Slovenes and Slovenians, but it is also because it is used in a way that is clearly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is clearly contrary to the principles of economy and rationality, which, according to constitutional theory, must always be an integral part of any decision of the National Assembly or State institutions. And these decisions, ladies and gentlemen, are not random, but they are thoughtful and conscious. This is said to be a conscious waste of money and thus the development of the country of Slovenia through the window. This is the moment that we are talking about, and this is the moment that the Government has really decided to take on its campaign in particular when all of its parties are already involved, with most of the money and most of the space and most of the time in the campaign, the additional money for itself, for the government, so that it does not come to a reality. That it would not be that fundamental and democratic confrontation when you present arguments to the electorate for, pour him pure wine, present arguments against, pour him pure wine here, and leave the decision to him and to him alone. For he alone has power. According to the Constitution and democratic theory, power is the power of the people. And no one else. But the people must have all the relevant information. It must have relevant information presented in the same, equal manner, in an easily accessible manner, both in order to enable people to make a realistic decision. But if it isn't, then democracy becomes a farce. And unfortunately, because of your actions, because of the actions of your government, democracy becomes more farce every day in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u91	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to hold a debate under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing yes. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposer of the recommendation and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the microphone switch. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. First of all, Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u92	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. During today's debate, there were also some inaccuracies and deceptions about both the referendums and the issues of the second track. Last but not least, I notice that the opponents of the second track are actually always manipulating certain numbers, if, then someone said that price, then someone said that price. In short, the purpose of all this information is to confuse voters and all those who listen. Finally, we need to remember that the second track is not a finished product that would be bought as a loaf of bread, but is a construction project that needs to be built, and it is perfectly normal that we have only an estimate of value at this stage. However, it is disturbing that some manipulate these estimates of values in terms of, if, we could build it for some certain value and similar. These are all manipulations. We have an estimate of the value, we have some kind of revision of the value assessment, but we will, of course, come to this true value when the call is made, when the bids are made and not later after we see how many of these unforeseen works will be covered by a certain percentage, i.e. by 7%. I am optimistic that the price of the second track will be significantly lower. However, we also need to be so careful from past experience that we do not encounter some low estimates. If we remember, a few years ago, the Minister of Infrastructure, Sam Omerzel, stated that the second track could be built at the price of €700 million, and then former Minister Zvonko Cernač said that Sam Omerzel was misleading and was overestimating this low price. On the basis of this, it is more than obvious that today's proponents are not even convinced of what they are saying, and that the whole purpose of this manipulation on the stage is actually some deception and introduction of certain confusion and the release of fog. However, in all this debate, I still have not heard the answer to the question, but what is the alternative to this proposal. We talked for seven hours — have we heard? We didn't. We've heard some criticism over and over and over again, saying that we don't need the law, that this coalition is looking at money from the pocket, stolen money, which is, of course, completely incorrect and unacceptable manipulation with voters. Such guidance, which has no basis and is totally malicious, is also unacceptable in this temple of democracy, where everyone can hide behind some kind of immunity and feel like he can say what he wants. So it's not an alternative. You're not offering it. And we haven't heard from her in seven hours. And I don't believe we're going to do it in the future. Manipulating at a lower price, with some variants offered by certain lobbying, is not an alternative to this. Because no one, except those who offer it through the media, is willing to stand up for it. And if so, then it is also up to you, your respected colleague, who opposes such a concept, to answer the question of what, with the 50 million who went to the research so far, to buy land and all the documentation needed to obtain the building permit. You'll have to answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u93	Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor. You have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u94	Thank you. The story of the new second track has been going on for more than 20 years. It should be stressed that ten governments, ten governments have sought alternatives, solutions. I think there were 16, 17 different variants when we're talking about the second track itself. The route, which was then also confirmed, and the government of Mr Janez Janša accepted this in 2005, I never say, we have only started with a second track, far from that. Many governments have been doing their jobs, even between 2004 and 2008, which is evident by the adoption of this route, which we are just continuing. We didn't go to change anything because we believe in the profession, even then, at the time of another government, normally. Why would we go against it? Nonsense. But the story goes on for 20 years. We don't have another track yet. And how long does it take us not to have it? Now I don't know whether we really want Slovenia well or not, we really don't want Slovenia's progress, we really don't want Slovenia's economy good, we don't want Luke Koper's development, the development of Slovenian railways, the development of logistics companies. Otherwise, if we do not start with what it means that, on the basis of the law adopted here in this house on the construction of the second track, the law has been adopted, which also speaks of the financial structure, otherwise in a different way, so far in practice has never been enforced. And because there's something new here now, it's probably a little strange, I believe, but once again, if we really want good, then I believe that citizens and citizens will recognize that we have to start again. Which means that this law is in force, which means in the referendum we also support and vote in favour. Which means today, although the agenda item is lovely 97 000 euros, yes, we have heard the Government of the Law has not broken, but no one is talking about the initiative for the referendum, including this referendum, like others, is constitutionally and legally covered, everything is fine, nothing is wrong, but this referendum will be spent on two million and a half euros. Nobody's talking about it. We are only talking about the EUR 97 000 allocated by the Government in accordance with the law to present the entire second track project in the electoral campaign. And I really don't know if we're really against this loving country just to counter. I think that we are so mature that after more than 20 years, we can enforce this law, which we have adopted here, that we decide at the referendum to support this law and that we will continue to implement it. I expect the Slovenian people, citizens and citizens to recognize, understand that it is the welfare of people, for new jobs, for the economy, and for the well-being of our Slovenia. Otherwise, if the second track is not built, we will push Slovenia back to the 19th century. How will we be responsible by tomorrow’s youth for what we will answer? I think and expect that we will maturely decide that citizens and citizens will recognize and surround this for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u95	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Although we have, through the debate, found that today's meeting does not solve anything, it turns out that your opponents are simply misleading citizens and citizens by citing so many lies that you can't actually believe your ears. It is right from this point of view that the Government has the opportunity by law to participate in the referendum and to argue everything that the public needs to know about the project again. Not only the public, but also you have shown that you are, in fact, constantly repeating the same lies and that even when the ministry explains and explains the fact, you still say the same thing. To be specific, I'll give you an example. Of course, the length of the track is 27 kilometers, but the total length of the tunnels with the service tunnels is said to be additional tunnels, which is 37 kilometers. And if you divide quickly to round the number billion by 37, it's obvious that it's 27 million per kilometer. And you just don't want to hear it, and you keep saying that you're already hurting people's ears, how you cheat and lie. And it's the same thing as funding. One cannot believe that you do not actually want to accept this new principle of financing, the new way of managing the project, because it is completely clear and clear that the financial structure is 200 million capital injections of Slovenia, 200 million euro of the capital injection of the behind countries, 250 million Euros of European funds, 311 million Euros of debt financing, in particular the European Investment Bank loan of the Slovenian SID of the Bank. And if we add this together, it's exactly 961 million, just like it is in the financial structure. And you're saying it's something that can't be controlled. Along with the projected costs, it's not only obvious that it costs 961 million, because this has to be repeated 300 million times, but you'll just say that it's a billion 700 or a billion 400, but look again, 961 million. The investment financing model is set to minimise the burden on Slovenian taxpayers on the financing of the project. This is also supported by arguments. To the maximum extent, the users will cover the infrastructure through the utility, through the toll premium and through the transshipment fee. You're in a different direction. After that, the Second Tier Act will be monitored, as civil initiatives will also participate in the control itself, the 2TKK will be monitored with the Court of Auditors, with civil initiative, in short, as the Secretary has said, the Supervisory Committee will be appointed to monitor and supervise the construction. How much you are deceiving, however, I would like to recall something else that you are not following in any way this modern way of European project management, which is approaching a participatory way of managing, and the budget will be managed in this way in the coming period. For example, Mr Dobovšek said that other modern countries are building on some, I do not know what principles. See, the Slovak shell is guided exactly in the same way, in the same way as this second track project will be run, exactly the same. They set up a project company through which they apply for European funding and through which they will then run the project. So don't fool yourself because it's really hard to listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u97	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good evening, everyone! Of course, I would first like to freshen up the purpose of today's debate. When we talked about the conditions for ensuring the equality of the position of funding in this referendum campaign, very little has been said about this, everything else has been said. First of all, I'd like to say some things to Mr or to my colleague Gorenak, but I can only see that he's gone, but we're moving on. First of all, I would stop at funding, mentioned the money, the poor 100,000 euros, which the government has somehow dedicated to this campaign, in which it will actually explain these things that go to the referendum or things that are needed to build this second track. Now, here it was said 90 grand, it sounded as if it was 90 million. $90,000 is ultimately tax money, and it has also been said from all sides that it is legal. Okay. But legally, of course, that proponent who was, now I don't know if he was just Willi Kovacic or this, probably also SDS back there, demanded a referendum. The referendum is also legal, but this referendum will cost about 3 million and a half. It's also tax money, and it wouldn't have to be. But the money is 40 times more than the 90 grand. This thing is a little different, though. I remembered something else, and the Brexits used the same tactics as Vili Kovacič and SDS in 2016. The government has seen the unjustified use of tax money for government flyers. Only government flyers were used in Britain for £9 million. Now we can talk one way or another. I'm not going to keep talking about the financial picture of this second track now, although some things are clear to me. For me, I am not a member of the Infrastructure Committee, and I have previously listened to Mr Zorčič, who has clearly explained things, and it was later said that it is very unclear, uncertain that he even doubts this calculation himself. So I won't talk about it. To conclude, let me just say that I will, of course, support the referendum on 24 September, which in other words means that I am for the development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u99	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, now I have a little more time. Look, once again, let's pour ourselves some really clean wine when we're talking about these numbers. If a ignorant Member says so, but the man is not yet so terrible and he thinks he may not know the referendum legislation. However, if such nonsense is spoken by a representative of the Government, the Secretary of State, and it is, of course, deliberately misleading the public, that is rudeness. And I'll just say why. Look, you can see well in this room right now, we have a coalition plus a government. This is how we pull it off. And that comes in two-thirds, right. And on the other hand, we have the opposition, and one third comes. Therefore, do not deceive the Slovenian public when you say that the government is not only in the same position in this referendum story, but you even say that it is deprived. She's privileged in a number of ways. The first is that you have all the structures, as far as the state apparatus is concerned, or let's say government. Is that right? That's right. You're sitting on behalf of the government today, too. And someone's paying you for it. That's right. And you're campaigning here for a referendum. That's right. Secondly, you have paid 97 000 euros, while your customers who make you can spend just as much money in this campaign as the other stakeholders if they choose them. So don't talk nonsense to people. 100,000 euros is an unfair advantage. That's true. That's what the law allows you to do. But the law doesn't say you have to do this. And in another referendum, you didn't think you had to do this, because it's probably not just about the important thing in your cases, about your elite, not about society as a whole, but about your elite, like this second track that you have to put under your hat. What was going on with this project anyway? When your minister was in the hearing at the beginning of the term, he said no other track. I don't know how this gentleman can still be a minister today, because just once this second track will not only be under this government, it will be for the price that we have talked about many times today. Secondly, how much do you care about nails when citizens and citizens start collecting signatures when they were instigators, you have forbidden the Slovenian Army Trade Union to collect signatures as if they were not citizens and citizens, as if they were not concerned with this law. And then there's But you told them not to. How afraid you were that 40,000 signatures would not be collected. And when the citizens collected 40,000 signatures, look at the fraction, your fear grew again. And all of a sudden, you felt the need for you to take 100,000 euros out of the budget for different ads. By the way, I'm also interested because today you're representatives of the government and the gentleman is wearing a brooch. In whose name is he sitting here today? Is he a representative of the government? Are we equal here, are we equal, respected? Because you say you're one special segment. No, no, that's not true. With those brooches of yours, you prove that you don't. Because if they were at least a little bit right and smart in their own way, at least a little bit of that money would be given to someone else, so that at least some of their views could be expressed. And speaking of amounts, dear colleague, look, this was your secretary of state, and this is what your ministry prepared. And you have values in here. And they're all about a billion and 400. And don't talk to me about some new calculations, because when it falls or when your government ends, God knows what kind of calculations, maybe three times as big.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u101	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Just an explanation to a colleague. Today, the government has not explained a single number at all. Here they were, they came, they sat for seven or eight hours, and they kept quiet. I can only ask you, given what this project is like, how many amendments will there be to this project? Can anyone tell me? There were about eight of them at Teš. Each with a different number, other content, other parameters, new amount and method of financing. The principle is exactly the same, so there will be no matters or things. Minister Gašperšič, when he was not yet Minister, said that Slovenia did not need a second track. Today it is a key development project of Slovenia. What do you think of this minister? The only change at this time is that he has received a new secretary of state. How can an absolutely unnecessary project be made and sold out of an absolutely crucial project of this mandate? Anyone want to explain that? Now that you're talking about the campaign. The colleague has already mentioned that the Ministry of Defence has used formal power to prohibit a military union to contribute signatures to the second indent of the referendum. It's abuse. It's a privilege. Not the government's handicap, but the privilege of forcing the union not to join the signing. Abuse. The second abuse is that the coalition or the government has proposed in the coalition's opinion that it does not support our proposal to come with a law where another civil referendum, the taxpayer, can participate in the budget source as well as the Government and co-finance its campaign. Also through public media, through public television, he is unable to advertise his activities. And now that you have refused the possibility of the Government coming with the law, because this was the legitimate initiative of the opposition party, I propose that the Government divide these funds into two parts. This is said to be the part that is dedicated to the government campaign and to the part that is dedicated to this civilian group that has no resources and would like to make its arguments public and public. And there's another question. Now here I see that you are SMC and Government, government team, the entire government team that is here, you have badges. Now, I ask, did the MPs or SMCs buy badges to the government, or did the government buy badges for the MPs? But someone can answer that. Who's the mercenary of this? The government finances its parliamentary group in the National Assembly to come with a badge and advertise the second track. And you're talking about depravity! Did SMC's client bribe the government, the government's team that sits here, and give them material to advertise a project that's going to fall in anyway? I think there is a chance that the government will somehow get out of this thing, at least allow for a participatory distribution of money into two parts and that those who are carriers in this campaign, this is what the government and civil society are saying, have the same access to financial resources. And another abuse was committed. It was suggested that the referendum be signed on the date of the presidential elections. The coalition and the president of the National Assembly did everything they could to keep this from happening. You did everything you could to make sure it didn't happen. Not only have you taken the money in particular, you have done everything to prevent as much participation as possible and to make decisions in the referendum or in the presidential elections as possible. These are totalitarian methods when selected, when all is cut down to be disabled in public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u103	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u104	Thank you very much. When we talk about abuse, let us first ask ourselves what abuse is taking place today and what abuse has already taken place at the meeting of the competent working body, when you have, in fact, brought all the other organisers of the referendum campaign into an unequal position by discussing everything else at these two sessions, except what your recommendation also refers to. We listen to the obvious that the government has not served today with any credible information. Of course not, because it's not on the agenda. Your recommendation is on the agenda, not your second track information. You're talking about this, and please don't touch my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u105	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u106	I'm telling you again. The total value of the project is 961 million. They are divided into these 35 kilometres, for which the Secretary of State has explained precisely where they come from. 27 kilometers of track, 16 kilometers of service pipes, which are considered to be 8 with full equipment, and we get 35 kilometers and calculate now if this is true or not. Mr. Grimes suggested, in the meantime, that the tunnel is eight kilometers. Of course, because it's a deliberate deceiving, just like you do all the time. The tunnel is, of course, 20 kilometers. To compare, we can take a tunnel similar to that, and when we talk about it, we say that one kilometer across Brenner costs 88 million. One kilometer of Brenner costs 88 million and one kilometer of Gradec–Danaj 87 million. So please don't lie to me anymore. While we are still discussing that there will now be some difference in some of the calculations that you have received, I do not know from where, because you did not get credible information, so I do not know on what basis you can count on, to remind you that, in fact, with the State Guarantee Act for Teš, you have enabled the largest theft that has taken place in this country, which we are still talking about today, and to find out where all the money has gone and what billions have been. Under your government, this law has been passed and the Members who are sitting here today have confirmed this law and you will say so. There is so much control in this second track project, so much control that I really want to see an expert who can avoid all these mechanisms. The supervision will be carried out by the Project Council, FURS, KPK, the Court of Auditors, an inspection at the level of Slovenia, Europe for all cohesion funds, the European Investment Bank, because it is the European Commission's guarantee and they are also carrying out control, plus additional checks will be carried out by those frozen countries that will contribute their money. So please, whoever manages to avoid all these controls, I would really like to see that. In your proposal, you cite other international documents that are all in breach of this decision of the Government, which notified it as an organiser and where it allocated these 97 000 euros. Let me tell you that none of this is true of what you are saying here, namely the rules of the European Union that affect the area of electoral regulation and the referendum campaign is not because it is in the domain of the countries. As a result, there are no decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union as regards the European Convention on Human Rights, and the right to a referendum is not included in the framework of protected rights at all. This is all that you referred to in this proposal. The only correct statement you gave here is that optional recommendation of the Codex of the Venice Commission. And now I repeat once again what I have already said about this note of yours today, because the proposaler said that this memo was great because it contained both arguments and arguments against it. This memo may have contained all of this, but this memo was issued unlawfully, and this was written by the Court of Auditors, which wrote: “The government should, according to the Court of Auditors’ assessment, have notified itself as an organizer of the referendum campaign and have not done so.” That was it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u107	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm listening to this and I'm surprised. Look, we live in society and country, if you have a good thousand wages, if you're lucky to have a job, you're almost rich, you fall into the top quarter, into the top quarter of citizens and citizens. We live in a society and a country where half the pensioners are affected by poverty. We live in a society and a country where, if you retire today, you will receive 58% of the full-time salary, even though the OECD recommendation is 70%. We live in society and in the country, and the lady before me has talked about controls and supervisors, because in the last quarter of the century, she has completely failed to control. And that's our key problem. After all the things the lady has said before me, this is the only part of the European Commission, because I have also done a great European project, 30 million, and I have been turned three times by every cent, everything else can be done this way. We live in a society and a country where you have tied up human resources trade, the current president of the country deliberately destroyed the KPK, you who now pingpongiate with each other, SMC, SDS, in a tied store had the Director of Post Slovenia, the President of the Fiscal Commission, who, while we were all committed to universities, including Milan and myself, shared in Maribor with a leader for a lot of money, and a constitutional judge who should not be in the Constitutional Court. In this debate that you're going so easily now, you're doing some comparisons, but you're only pulling out what suits you. Now all of a sudden, the Venice Commission suits you. When the gentleman we know under the name of Ciro was on the Venice Commission, it didn't fit anyone. Perhaps if we were to talk seriously about these tunnels that you are referring to up and down, Mr Grims, who is basically a geologist, would know little about the structure of the terrain and what the costs are and what the costs are not. The Austrians drilled a big tunnel, and during the crisis they stopped drilling, and friends joked that it was the most expensive art in Austria, and they continued. You're deceiving one and the other. The question of the referendum is the question of financing this project and no one in their right mind will give 49% of this route to someone who, as SMC would say, will pay one fifth, and will not pay one fifth in fact, probably be, I don't know, whether the VAT is in here or not, usually 20% more expensive. It's kind of normal. Dr. Makovšek was a doctor on Slovenian highways and we'd need him here, but he escaped to the OECD. And that's what this is about, and it's kind of every normal policy. It seems to me, Mr Grims, that we need a call from the KNOVS about how the Hungarians are turning us – once there is a wire, secondly you are financed with a million and 400 years before the elections, thirdly this is the story. Why are they doing this? I'll be honest with you. I've been talking to a man who runs logistics for Fidesz, including the logic of pyari, he's a top mathematician in global situations, and we're scarves, and that's why this happens to us what's happening to us. This referendum was brewed by the SMC, with your own vehementness, which you have learned from the SDS and have surpassed, I must admit, even in deception. Responsibilities, much more, have the other two partners in the coalition, who are mostly silent. The SD isn't, it's thick before the elections, and Desus is always so pushy for everyone. After all, one third of this coalition has been politically experienced, and perhaps I could give you some advice and guide you to this vehementness of yours. I hope that after the next election, no Member Group will have more than 20 Members, including which one I belong to, we will be paired in cars, and that we will also seriously go to some responsible parliamentary constitutional democracy. And I sincerely hope that lefty will be watching over the second track. Because everyone else has already soiled their hands with the construction mafia. And this second track would be cheaper if we didn't destroy Sparkle in the middle, because of course Siemens's business would be around if we didn't destroy some factories in Maribor and elsewhere. So it's not a radical left that's responsible, as anyone would like to say. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u109	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Order! The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u110	Thank you. First of all, if he calms down, I can explain to him tomorrow at KNOVS that the SDS is a legal person who is not working or is not being financed by Hungary. But if you're assigning someone to us, that's your problem. On the other hand, today's meeting actually has one problem that is much bigger than this one. I firmly believe that the things we should achieve a consensus that should be followed by all of us with different projects, with the different ideas that we are facing here. But at least we can agree on that. The first is security, because everyone has the right to security, every citizen, every child, every person. Another is the prosperity that every citizen, every citizen, has the right to live in a state of prosperity, which, of course, is a fundamental condition of a successful economy, which policy is obliged to establish a framework that will be rational and not burdensome, but that will make the economy a successful competition within the European Union and of course the global world. But we don't even come together on these two things. Look at today's session. Today, of course, we are not just talking about these 96,000 or 97,000 euros that the government has adopted from the pockets of taxpayers for its propaganda. Here we are talking about the rationality of spending money, something that is a fundamental constitutional principle, even if the constitution does not explicitly say – it is economics and rationality. And for the second track project, these two principles are all over the line. And in order to blur this out, the government took this right to take extra money out of people's pockets, so that there wouldn't be enough room to face real arguments. At the same time, the coalition with its representatives took this right, which it does not have, to call a referendum on a day that does not coincide with the presidential elections, which would be the only economic and rational one, while also giving very high legitimacy to all decisions taken. Because it would be easy for people because participation would be so much bigger. It will now be lower on both sides than it would have been, and therefore the legitimacy of these decisions will be lower. At the same time, you and only you and no one else threw $4 million out the window from the political account. And as long as this is done in this country, of course it cannot become a state of prosperity. Because for each project, twice as much money is foreseen as this project would actually be worth. And today we are not just talking about those 97 000 euros, but we are talking about three quarters of a billion euros, in fact a thousand euros from the pocket of every adult citizen who goes for, no one has said anything. Nor did Mrs Slug, who had made this very clear, finally know where the money would go. In the pockets of those intercessors, politicians in power, to buy some future elections or to have biased media that slanders and lies about some and others boils into the sky. That's how it works. Such a democracy is not a democracy. This debate today also in this part far exceeds what some of you wanted to show. This is a debate on constitutional rights, that democracy, if indeed democracy, must be set up in such a way that everyone has an equal opportunity to present his opinion, that then people have actually access to comprehensive information and that they can make democratic decisions. If only we could reach consensus on this, but he's sorry for you, obviously, we can't. However, this is not only recorded in the Slovenian Constitution, within the framework of several articles, only reading them is necessary and the Constitution should be read as well, this is even recorded in international acts. That is why this decision of the government, far beyond the few less than 100,000 euros, is a decision on the rationality of organising the Slovenian economy, the Slovenian society, the excessive tax burden on Slovenian entrepreneurs and all citizens and citizens, the citizens of the first and second order, the inequality before the law, why our democracy does not work and why democracy is every day more farce when this situation is extended.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-04-SDZ7-Izredna-46.ana.u111	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and also the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and I would like to read a decision of the Constitutional Court at some point. Good night!
