ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Iva Dimic from 17:00 onward, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, Dr Anže Logar, mag. Branko Grims, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec from 20:00 on, mag. Matthew Tonin from 17:00 to 19:00 and Mr. Ivan Hršak until 13:00. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Institutions after the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Tiln Bozic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law legitimizes solutions for the smooth application of the Market Abuse Regulation. It brings the whistleblower directive, prohibits the provision of auxiliary storage services and the management of financial instruments as a standalone service to all who do not have the status of a bank or investment firm, and also eliminates certain identified deficiencies in relation to fiduciary accounts. With regard to the Regulation, in order to ensure the smooth application of the Market Abuse Regulation, the proposal provides that market abuse control is the responsibility of the Securities Market Agency, which already has this competence. The proposal for a law does not contain a definition of market abuse, nor of the measures and powers that the ATVP has in eliminating control. Both have already been defined by a European regulation, which is directly applicable. The draft law thus defines only the procedure whereby the Securities Market Agency exercises the powers conferred by it. When it comes to measures which constitute an intervention in protected rights, but also to judicial supervision, it shall be said by an appropriate order. The draft law provides that the Securities Market Agency may, in criminal proceedings, impose a fine higher than the maximum fines laid down by the Offences Act. In this regard, it should be clarified that fines follow the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulation, based on the knowledge that freedom to provide services allows companies to choose their country of establishment and thus indirectly the penal framework. To avoid, of course, moving companies to countries with less severe sanctions, the EU has unified the amount of fines. The sentence also takes into account the principle of proportionality, which is important for us, especially for our societies. In practice, this means, in particular, in terms of the principle of proportionality, that a Slovenian company should not be given the same fine as, for example, a large company in a Member State. If I mention the amount of fines, say, 15 million for society, 5 million for the person responsible, we somehow get a sense of the ratio of such roles, which, perhaps at European level, when it comes to large societies, are in place, because they are smaller, not so much. As far as whistles are concerned. The proposal for a law further introduces a directive on whistleblowers. In view of the implementation of the proposal, the law provides that the notifier, which is provided with information to the Agency under the Market Abuse Regulation, shall not consider that he has infringed any contractual or legal prohibition on disclosure of information and that he is not liable for compensation or criminal liability as a result of the notification of the infringement. It is also provided that the application of the employer or persons who are in a contractual relationship with them cannot be a reason for the termination of the employment contract. The proposal allows the provision of ancillary investment services, the storage and management of financial instruments only to investment firms and banks. Persons carrying out that ancillary investment activity shall be admitted to the holding of assets of third parties. Where such a service is provided by a bank or a stock exchange company, it shall be controlled by the Securities Market Agency and non-materialised securities holders shall also be included in the investor claim guarantee system. About keeping fiduciary accounts. Fiduciary accounts are prohibited in the Republic of Slovenia. They are prohibited by the first paragraph of Article 255 of the law we have on the table. This article, of course, offers some special exceptions below. The bill before you follows that prohibition and in part strengthens it. One of the exceptions to the ban is the exception for lawyers and notaries. It is right that lawyers and notaries are included in the exemption when providing customer custody services, but it is not appropriate for lawyers and notaries to make use of their exception, so that, despite the general prohibition, they maintain fiduciary accounts even when they do not provide guardian services for them. The prohibitions on fiduciary accounts, which are legal, must be maintained and applied equally, so that its purpose can also be achieved. It therefore wishes to clarify the exception to the prohibition in this respect. In line with the above, I hope that you will also support the proposal of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! At its 34th meeting, on 2 February 2017, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the reduced procedure, EPA 1702-VII, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the bill were tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats to Article 25 of the Law. 1. 2017, SDS Group of Members to Article 25 of 27. 1. 2017, SMC, Desus and SD groups on 4, 5, 27, 31, 41, 43, 51, new 56a and 58 of 27. 1. 2017 and amendment to Article 5(1). 2. 2017. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legislative Service, the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders, representatives of the ATVP and representatives of the Association of Small Shareholders of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained the main purpose of the bill and presented the main solutions, notably the adaptation of domestic legislation to Regulation 596/2014 of the EU and the elimination of the inconsistencies found in the law. The debate focused on the compatibility of the proposed solutions with European legislation with regard to the proposed solutions in Article 25 of the bill and the issue raised with regard to the opinion of the Government and the ATVP on the amendments tabled by the opposition to Article 25. Some members who opposed article 25 of the bill said that they could not support the proposed resolution of the law. The question was also raised as to how much of the profits of the above-mentioned solutions in the law bring to stock exchanges on the one hand, burden the courts on the other, and what the supervision of the ATVP is. Some members, however, considered that the bill should be supported because the main objective of the law is adequate supervision by the ATVP and the possibility that the storage and management services of financial instruments as a standalone activity are carried out by persons not controlled by the ATVP. They considered that all operators providing storage and management services should be monitored. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups, as amended by Articles 5, 27, 31, 41, 43, 51, as new 56a and 58a, and adopted them. The amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors - Christian Democrats and the SDS Group to Article 25 was not accepted. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, a word of the amended law has been prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. We will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, as the main reason for amending and supplementing the law is to take account of the last amendment of European regulations, which mainly relate to the duty of direct and uniform prevention of market abuse and market manipulation in all Member States. Well, in addition to the European regulations, the reason for the amendment of this law is also the inconsistencies created by the adoption of the Law on Non-Materialised Securities. In particular, we have in mind the abolition of registration accounts with the Clearing House depository, where holders kept securities for certification privatisation. This possibility of storage of securities was terminated by the Intangibles Act at the Clearing House and referred the holders to stock exchanges or to the depository of securities. This raised a whole range of questions; from additional burdens on unnecessary courts, to the fact that stockbrokers want disproportionately high payments from holders of such papers, we have also limited this in the adopted law, but there is also a dispute before the Constitutional Court in this regard, so that the situation in this area has become really very worrying, completely unnecessary. The law itself also seeks to resolve the solution created mainly by the reduction of the costs of account holders, since it has created the possibility of securities lawyers being cared for. And the law goes in the direction of restricting the possibility of so-called custody or fiduciary accounts, which are taken care of by lawyers and should also be limited in order not only to avoid the costs of keeping commercial accounts but also to prevent direct control of securities holders. The investor claim guarantee system is also questionable, and transparency and the determination of the real owner of securities is also questionable. From the point of view of control of capital markets, however, we believe that it would be even more reasonable in Slovenia to fully prohibit the use of fiduciary accounts, allowing this only in cases where the company is being used for sale or because of the succession or temporary guardianship procedure. While the bill significantly restricts the use of fiduciary accounts for the storage of securities. The amendments that are ready are also going this way. I think that in all the amendments we can see that it is unacceptable for capital owners to hide behind a legal confidentiality that does not serve to carry out a legal business but, above all, to avoid; this is a key problem. We estimate that the coalition's amendment is most likely to be closer to solving this complication, but we fear that this solution will not be definitive as well, and that we will meet again with solutions that will try to challenge this law addition. We therefore reiterate that, despite all of this, it would be the best solution to re-establish registration accounts at the Clearing House of Depot Society and to close this chapter, which has become completely unnecessary and we are burdening at least 280 000 people, even after unnecessary. And as I said at the outset, we are burdening the courts and some other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u7	The text is given by the United Left Group, for which Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The main solutions that this law brings can be divided into two sets. The first set of legal provisions concerns the adaptation of national legislation to the European Regulation. This set of rules for the interpretation and implementation of market abuse legislation is more clearly laid down in the Slovenian acquis. Among other things, this proposal also provides high fines for violators who are bound to the amount of profits obtained unlawfully and to the unification of fines at European Union level. In this part, the law in the United Left is regarded as positive and, of course, we support it. The second part that touches the fiduciary accounts is problematic, where some small shareholders now store their shares. Here, however, it is worth reminding us of the history of this problem. The core of the problem was the closure of the registration accounts, which you accepted in the coalition and also in the right opposition, a little over a year ago. In these register accounts, about 250,000 small shareholders were kept, estimated at EUR 500 million. It was property that people got in the form of certificates during the transition. So it's not about capitalists or capital owners, as we've heard before, but it's more or less about people who got a share, two, three, ten, if it was shares of less value, in transition, and they were kept in these register accounts. For 25 years they were able to keep these shares free of charge with the depository company, and after 25 years, under the pretext of transposing the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, the Government decided to deprive them of this option and to get small shareholders on the market. Here in the United Left we saw the interest of capital. On the one hand, it was the interest of the stock exchange houses to break through the commissions in this way, to the costs that will be charged to the people for the new storage of these small shares. And it was estimated that the stock exchange houses would thus reach 10 million euro per year. On the other hand, it was the interest of those who would like to have the last pieces of unconcentrated property distributed during the transition. And 500 million euros, that's the sum that was stored in the register accounts, is not a small amount. Some small shareholders [[…]] [[ringing the phone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u9	Please put another time on “mute” when you have these devices with you. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u10	Some small shareholders therefore resisted the pressure to go to the stock market because they never wanted to trade their shares, they wanted to feed them, and so they wanted to keep working. This is why alternative storage methods such as shareholding have been acquired, which is the way to store in fiduciary accounts with lawyers. That's where they keep these stocks, they don't trade with them, and we want to keep it that way. In the United Left, we agree that this form of storage is not entirely non-problem, because it is necessary to ensure that the persons who have transferred the shares are provided with adequate collateral for their assets, and that this storage method becomes transparent; it is said that data on these shares can be accessed by competent authorities such as the Securities Market Agency. In this regard, we have also drafted an amendment to Article 25, which we are bound to support. If this amendment is adopted, we are prepared to support the law, if it is not adopted, but we cannot support the law, because we cannot support the further push of people who are small shareholders into the market to purchase these shares in order to concentrate their assets, as this is not their intention. For 25 years they wanted only to keep their shares and we see absolutely no reason why we would not allow them to continue to do so. In short, if you support our amendment, we will also support the law if the amendment does not receive support and we cannot support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u11	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments brings together a number of sets of amendments to the existing legislation. The first set relates mainly to compliance with the European Directive, which regulates the position of the competent supervisory authority in accordance with European secondary legislation. We do not oppose these solutions of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats. As problematic, however, we consider the provisions of this law, which only allows investment firms and banks to provide auxiliary investment services for the preservation and management of financial instruments for the account of customers as independent activities. This limitation is assessed as a possible unjustified intervention in the constitutional right to a free economic initiative. However, we can certainly say that such a solution means a reduction, a distortion of competition and an unjustified improvement in the situation for tenderers favoured by the proposal of this law. The implementation of the transfer of the securities of account holders to the Clearing House of Deposits into commercial accounts has already resulted in major changes in a relatively short period of time, as well as a number of distaste for securities management. In New Slovenia, we do not want such provisions to complicate the situation of small shareholders in particular. The restriction of competition between issuers for securities holders does not bring any added value. Representatives of the Council of State have also pointed to the question of the restriction, as is the case with this bill. 74. Article 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the freedom of economic initiative, is clear. It is also a clear Christian democratic programme of New Slovenia, which advocates the social market economy. This is based on a free society or a free initiative to which the State should only intervene in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity if it is indeed necessary. That is why, at the stage of the examination of the law on the home labour body, Nova Slovenija also proposed an amendment which excludes the limits defined in the proposed law, but our supplement has not been adopted. Since our proposals for maintaining a higher level of economic freedom and greater supply for owners of financial instruments have not been adopted, we will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! Today we are recasting the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the basic content of which is, inter alia, the conditions for the establishment, operation, supervision and termination of investment firms by operators of organised markets and settlement systems established in the Republic of Slovenia under which persons established outside the Republic of Slovenia may provide investment services in the Republic of Slovenia. The main purpose of this law is to lay down rules on trade in organised markets, prohibitions of conduct, market abuse and rules on the settlement of transactions concluded in these organised markets. The main purpose of the proposed law, to be supplemented, is to determine the functioning of the Securities Market Agency in the exercise of competence and responsibility under this and other laws. The reason for the proposed amendment is that certain identified shortcomings and inconsistencies of the existing Law on the Market in Financial Instruments are addressed. This deletes the recommendations and warnings as control measures that the Agency may issue, thus equating the measures to be imposed on financial institutions under other financial legislation. The irregularity of certain references to the remaining financial legislation shall be addressed. The provision of the amendment of the Law in Article 28 is also important. This provides that the Securities Market Agency in a stock exchange company where the conditions for resolution are laid down in accordance with the law governing the resolution and forcible termination of banks may take over the management of the appointment of an extraordinary administration. With such an amendment to the Article, it is proposed that such an option be made possible and that the worst situation on the capital market can be prevented in the future. The law also provides for the possibility for the Securities Market Agency to give legal persons or issuers a fine of up to three times the amount of profits obtained by the infringement, or 15 per cent of the total annual turnover or up to 15 thousand euros. The main purpose of this amendment is to eliminate the possibility of persons not controlled by the Agency providing storage and management of financial instruments as independent services. In such cases, there is no supervision of persons who, on their behalf, manage intangible client securities. Such persons are also not included in the investor claim guarantee scheme established in accordance with Chapter 12 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. Thus, the management of client securities will bypass the general prohibition of fiduciary accounts referred to in Article 255 of that Act. This distorts the effect of the provisions of the Intangible Securities Act, which provides that the Share Book is public. This is also followed to the greatest extent possible by the proposal to amend the law before us. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u15	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments and the Government, as the proposer of this law, in some parts introduces the Directive and the amendments proposed by the European Commission. In principle, with these amendments and proposals in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have no problems and we support them, but difficulties arise from the proposal of Article 25, paragraph 10, which prevents lawyers or notaries from storing shares. The fact is that we have met with important stakeholders in this market in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely the regulator of the Securities Market Agency and also the Association of Small Shareholders. We have somehow come to the knowledge that the proposal proposed by the Government does not follow both sides, so we have decided to propose a proposed amendment law, which would in some way also allow the storage of securities in the so-called shareholding of lawyers and notaries, of course under conditions that would be acceptable to the regulator, this is the Securities Market Agency. We are confident that such a solution would be more appropriate than the Government has proposed. The fact is that this amendment, which we tabled for the plenary session, is not opposed by the regulator. Indeed, even such amendments by the Slovenian Democratic Party with certain additions, which were made for the plenary session of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, were also supported. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that a free market must be followed and that other entities are also allowed to operate on condition that they comply with the regulations and under the supervision of the regulator. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced and appreciate that this is an important part of this law, because in the event of the non-adoption of this amendment, this market could somehow even hesitate in certain matters or, at least in our opinion, in an unequal way would make it impossible for certain types of business to be carried out, in particular, to somehow prevent the so-called share resistance primarily for the importance of small shareholders. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will listen to further discussions during this point and, somehow, we will also condition support for this law with the support of our amendment or support for the amendment of the United Left, because we are confident that if our amendment does not receive this support, then the law is substantively directed, so written that we cannot support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a novelty that will adapt domestic legislation to the European Regulation on Market Abuse and address the shortcomings of the current law. This Regulation removes barriers to trade and significant distortions of competition resulting from differences between national laws. By considering the novelty, the Securities Markets Agency as the competent supervisory authority for the supervision of compliance with the provisions of the Regulation shall determine the control measures of the ATVP for the purpose of preventing and detecting prohibited market abuse, and shall also determine the amounts of fines that the ATVP may give to a legal person or issuer. The adoption of the novel will prevent the possibility of abuse of the current law on the prohibition of fiduciary accounts. It happens that persons who are allowed to maintain fiduciary accounts are guided by them as a self-service and not as a complement to the custody services they are expected to perform within their respective functions. In Slovenia, due to the desire for transparency of the stock book, fiduciary accounts are generally not allowed, the stock book provides records of actual owners of individual companies and fiduciary accounts allow real owners to remain hidden. Otherwise, they are allowed in rare exceptional cases, which are time-limited and which support the legal relationship between the lawyer or notary and the parties. It should be noted, however, that the trading companies and banks are subject to specific supervision of the ATVP and that the performance of their activities is subject to licensing and specific supervision. Lawyers and notaries are unsupervised, so control of such accounts is disabled. This poses a higher risk as the maximum insurance sum of the lawyer's liability is EUR 250 000 for all of his clients, which would significantly reduce the level of insurance if many investors were to do so. During the course of the hearing, the issue of efficiency of enforcement was also highlighted. If the account holder is not in debt, but an intermediary, it is not possible to find the debtor's assets in the fiduciary account with KDD's inquiries, thereby reducing the effectiveness of the execution. Following this, we agree with the proposed amendments and additions to the existing law in the Desus Group, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members, the amendment of the Joint Left and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In view of this, I will now read once again the amendment tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 25 to add a new paragraph to the new paragraph, which reads as follows: “The restriction referred to in the preceding paragraph does not apply to lawyers, notaries who are authorised by the investment services and transactions agency, which fulfil all the conditions and guarantees that are applicable to brokering companies and which are supervised by an agency that can also impose measures or sanctions in the framework of supervision of the provision of investment services and transactions.” In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed amendment actually satisfies all the conditions and wishes of all stakeholders participating in this market. This means that it is also in some way possible for lawyers and notaries to keep these securities, of course under certain conditions applicable to other shareholders in this market. It should be reiterated that such an amendment was also agreed by the regulator, that is, the Securities Market Agency. Once again, I will put the bill's proposal to the Ministry of Finance, as well as to Members and Members of the coalition, to reconsider this proposal in order to make it meaningful to support it. I also suggest that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal should be defined by the Ministry of Finance and that it should state the reasons why our amendment is not supported by the Ministry of Finance or the Government; what is wrong with this amendment. I am convinced that this must be followed and that with the proposed law, such as at a given time without the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party or without the amendment of the United Left, the market is somehow collapsing. We can also say that someone consciously makes it impossible for some who, I believe, are in some positive way in the field of the market, thus making it impossible for them to do so. Once again, I ask the Ministry of Finance and the Secretary of State to define all proposed amendments. Why is this part of the preservation of securities so persistently denied to lawyers and to domestic lawyers? I am convinced that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party meets all these conditions. And if someone decides to do so – I can make a decision. In the event that the law is passed without these amendments, or the amendment proposed by the coalition, it seems to me that it is more than some kind of shifting of the words of the existing proposal. Last but not least, I was disappointed, given the debate on the parental committee, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, after that debate, which was constructive, in which everyone participated, the regulator participated, that somehow there was a realization that this law needed to be supplemented by the coalition Members and Members, but with this proposal of amendments that you have given, you have somehow re-examined that face to promise something at a given time, and then distance yourself from this promise by 180 degrees.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u21	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, President, once again. Also a nice greeting to the Secretary of State as well as to colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I must admit that when I listened attentively to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, particularly those who have tabled the amendments to Article 25, they have to some extent condition the amendment of this law, or the amendment of the law, also by the adoption of their amendments. I must admit that I am very disappointed in this work mainly because of one part, because in the National Assembly we often touch on the debate of the so-called regulator on the financial market. Here I relate, extremely poor practice and I think that Members of the National Assembly in most cases have also pointed out in their discussions that the regulator in the financial market for the past period, Banka Slovenije, in the past did not exercise the powers that the taxpayers and also the profession expected to exercise in some way. Here we are now in a similar role or image because we are talking about a financial market regulator, making securities with all its form – the Securities Market Agency. If one piece of the amendment with the whole marriage is being conditioned here, I must admit that I am deeply concerned. Do we want to have some real control over the financial instruments market? I'm sure I'll be touching on the same amendments, but I have something to point out in this part. In one of its decisions, the Constitutional Court stated that the judicial authorities were also notaries and lawyers. Here we are now talking, specifically about these amendments tabled, about these two groups. My key question is - and right away I am setting up two things, which I have also discussed on the parental committee in this direction - why so many burdens on these two judicial bodies, which almost stems from a fact that investors of these two amendments, this amendment, would like to go in the direction that we have an area that is unsupervised, in some direction almost legalised and, on the other hand, to allow them to carry on their activities. It must be said out loud that notaries and lawyers will be doing the same thing after the current regulation and even if such amendments are not adopted by the amendments that have been tabled. The only difference is that they are already engaged in individual transactions related to an individual client, but not as an activity. What is disturbing to me is why it is only these two groups that I allow to refer to the fourth paragraph of Article 255 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which says that for customers it is the one who holds the position of a notary who has the position of a lawyer. It's perfectly legitimate! However, it is interesting that investors, through the so-called form of free economic initiative, are also neglecting other groups that are allowed to do so. These are, in particular: provincial guardians, special cases guardians, insolvency administrators or other persons who provide custody services in their regular activities and professions. I'm sure I'll touch on what was also crucial on the parental committee, the fiduciary business, and then I'll leave it a little bit to go on. Madam President, I will nevertheless allow myself a few words on this bill. I note that I am one of the few Members, including on the home committee as well as today, which I am very loud in my position to defend the initial proposal of the Ministry of Finance, without the amendments tabled. Why? The Ministry of Finance has proposed to amend the amendment following a reduced procedure for minor matters, including the transposition of a regulation that would not have been decided or described in more detail, as more may be said by the proposer. But what I think we Members need to be aware of is the essence of what is written down – removing the possibility that storage services and the management of financial instruments as separate services are provided by persons who are not controlled by the Agency. Emphasis is placed on them by the Agency. In such cases, there is no supervision of persons who, on their own behalf, manage intangible client securities. I think that those of us who get to know each other a little bit after that content know what that means. And the fact is that these persons are also not included in the investor claim guarantee scheme, because the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments details in this chapter what this means. Such management of client securities simply bypasses the general ban on fiduciary accounts because we all invoke and obviously each other interprets Article 255 of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. Disregarding this because the Ministry of Finance has made it clear that we must have a controlled market of financial instruments without exception means – what? That any derogation simply represents, in this case of the National Assembly, we do not want to have controlled markets of financial instruments. And what obviously does not teach us as representatives of the legislative branch of power is that, in the event of any later derogations in this so-called free economic initiative, no one is responsible, but there is always all this burden and consequences on the holders of securities. Then we're back on the account story. By one of the proposers of the parliamentary groups, which also binds the practical adoption of this law to the regulation, amendment or confirmation of registration accounts. I must admit that with the introduction of these amendments to the parliamentary groups, I have only somehow got the complete picture when we were not long ago on the parental committee and also in this National Assembly dealing with the authentic interpretation of the Law on intangible securities. Interestingly, something has happened to me in this national assembly; in certain cases, when the laws of us Members are being amended, full of the mouth of the profession, opinions, legislative and legal opinions, Bank of Slovenia, Association of Banks, Ministry of Finance are being amended; but interestingly, with an authentic explanation relating to the register accounts, the National Assembly and the Home Committee have greatly overrun the entire Slovenian profession. Here is a key question for me, whether the politicians we are representatives of the legislative branch of power have indeed eaten up all the expertise, and so we can strongly support in the interest of some political decisions also such matters. I'll be back here as far as specific matters are concerned. This is said to be a proposal for such amendments – and in some ways also criticise my colleagues and colleagues Do we want to follow the Ministry of Finance and the European Regulation, which wants to have a regulated market for financial instruments? [[…]] By making any amendments, it's for my notions of withdrawal. It means that we do not want to have controlled such transactions, transactions or whatever we call them. What I would point out once again is that a fraction of these entities, which already have the legitimate right under Article 255 of the Law to carry out such transactions – only one group we want to favour. For me, the fundamental question to investors of such amendments is: Is it right to refer to a free economic initiative? On what basis should only one group invest and, on behalf and interest, refer to this principle? I'd like to touch myself again before I go to the content of the amendment itself. I am simply firm in the position that we must not allow – precisely because of this repeatedly sung bank hole and the failure of the regulator to implement the control mechanism – that even in this segment, the market of financial instruments is said to allow any deviation or failure of the regulator to actually carry out such activities. Those who were present on the parent board must admit that on the one hand I was happy, on the other hand very disappointed, because two associations, which also have their own business and care for shareholders, for example, for this so-called primate area, are called the Association of Small Shareholders and the Small Shareholders of Slovenia, who are two members, have shown us, interestingly, their conflicting view of how to obtain as much as possible a meal in this part of the deal. When their dialogue began, how much such costs, one or the other, I must admit that I was surprised. It was no longer important to resolve register accounts; it was no longer an important asset owner, which is fully devalued in the light of the past period when they invested their assets, says EUR 50, EUR 60. No, the picture is completely different! And today, imagine, through the amendments, above all, I am modest in the position that there is still a question of registration accounts, of this 100 or 120 thousand, which is still unresolved, which are not yet in the court's account, which is literally being resolved in some way at some point in the final stage also through an authentic interpretation in the Constitutional Court. And that's where we're talking today. Therefore, this part of the debate would conclude in this part that the initial proposal of the Ministry of Finance is the proposal that the Republic of Slovenia needs: a decisive transposition of a regulation that prevents any derogation, at least to individual stakeholders or anyone, to go beyond the principle of a free economic initiative in such matters. And we Members are committed to allow, but at the same time, to require those entities entrusted with supervision to carry out this exercise in a consistent manner. I conclude that, according to my modest assessment, the amendments tabled in Article 25, as well as in some part below, do not follow the intention of the initial proposal, which was very well prepared by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u23	It's obviously still an interest in the debate. I'm going to give you my word or we're going to do it: I'm going to start the possibility of you applying, and then I'm going to give my word to the Secretary of State first. Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond because I have been challenged, it is said that the Government is to be defined by the amendments proposed by the coalition, the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the United Left. Let me start with the SDS amendment. We don't support that. The reasons for this are similar to those already given on the Committee. In other words, it is not a matter of aligning the situation with such a change. Why? In view of the fact that paragraph 255 still remains, which also states in paragraph 1 that a stock exchange house, banks are not allowed to keep securities in fiduciary accounts. On the other hand, we have one option, namely, the exception given below, which has been given for some other reason, for example, if it is a matter of regulating an inheritance and so on when a property is held temporarily in a fiduciary account, so that some agreement or some business is made to start using it in a way that would be a commercial account. For this reason, we are in a situation where lawyers and notaries could actually have different or substantially different rights than that of a stock exchange house or a bank, which is also adequately qualified, supervised and so on. It is true that, if I look at, say, the United Left as well as the SDS, you have added something in your proposals, or there has been further reflection in this direction as to how transparency is, how transparency is, and so on. But no matter what the extra transparency is, it's a drawback. We have basically foreseen that the one who owns the securities is also shown in the register. When some securities appear in a fiduciary account, we come into a situation where the one that is the economic owner is not directly visible, but in this case, for example, a law firm. It is precisely because we want to ensure this transparency, and it has also been declared on this side of the National Assembly several times, and so on and so forth, that this is somehow a meaningful direction, that is to say political, as far as we leave the stock books open, transparent and so on, that we do not support it. If you could take a step further, there might also be additional problems. For example, if we look at the area of executions when someone has securities, let's say that he owes someone, if he is directly shown from the stock book, he can in such a case, on the basis of an inquiry – electronic, ordinary – let's say, the court comes to this data relatively quickly and if these papers exist and are written there, the action. If this is in a fiduciary account, this information may not be obtained. It is said that there is no realisation of what an instrument has also been set up. Similarly, in the field of social transfers and certain other situations, it is said that when a property is identified, when the actual situation is identified, we can come to a situation where this situation is not properly established. That is exactly why we are opposed to this. However, there may also be another important point here; the will of Members was, at the time of the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Article 48, then — not of this law, but of the one regulating securities — to limit costs. Both of these cases, it's said that if you keep this in your fiduciary accounts, you're out. So, the limit that you set and you thought was reasonable at that point, so 0.5 percent of the portfolio value, in this case can be relatively elegantly bypassed. Just as we're talking about these register accounts, which, according to the latest data we have here, is still about less than 100,000, most of them are the number of portfolios whose values are low. And of course, such a restriction has a significant impact on whether someone, as has been said in this house, will, for one time, be relieved of the costs that someone charges him for the shares he has. For this reason, too, we are held back to these solutions, or in these two cases we are opposed to them. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will not only define myself to this amendment, but to all those put forward by the coalition, because they are interconnected. So when we talk about this article, it is the tenth paragraph, which is defined in a slightly more detail, slightly differently than it was previously set, but in our opinion it is appropriate. Then there is an additional amendment dealing with criminal provisions. This is also the part for which it has been assessed — and correctly assessed — that it is not defined what happens in the event of an infringement and, of course, if there is no sanction provided for in a regulation, it is in some way a defective provision. And last but not least, the possibility for those who are committed to do so is that they can adapt in due course. It is said that they have some time to adjust to the extent that such schemes may have been offered or considered. As we say, we support the amendment of the coalition at the Ministry of Finance or the position of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u25	The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In principle, we all agree that the market for securities is under more institutional control. In principle, we are all in fact in favour of the stability of the securities market, mainly because we know what can cause instability in this area. Perhaps not so much in Slovenia, where this market is weak and limited, but on the world market, and it also claps in Europe. At a time when the crisis occurred, a few years ago, first in the United States, it was in the securities market or there were the most visible effects and, of course, even in the United States, we are talking, of course, about the collapse of Lehman Brothers, and the quickest solution was to get these solutions out of the way so that the crisis could be resolved and the real economy could move on. Europe has had major problems here, different across countries and, above all, this exit from the crisis has lasted a long time. And he still has them today. Also because of European legislation. Even because European legislation was not consistent, and also because it was actually weak, it can be done on purpose because they simply did not know how to do it. And if you don't know that you don't know, of course, that's even worse. Thus, from this point of view, I do not personally swear in all respects to European legislation and to the copy of this European legislation by the Ministry of Finance by the Government, and so on and so forth, that everything will now be settled here and that everything will be fine and that all the problems will be solved and whatever happens in the securities market will be covered, solved and nothing will happen. So of course I understand the coalition, I also understand Mr Verbic, but still, like him, who directly emphasises that these solutions are true, I still have some critical distance here mainly because of the historical memory I have. Thus, with this point of view, I fear that in two years or one year from now we will have again the next additions to this legislation by the European Directive. But it is right that it is being upgraded and, of course, we have no problem with it. In this law, when we talk about ATVP, we can certainly do different comparisons, each of us can do them, but given that we do not have joint regulators or supervisory institutions, here I think the Insurance Agency, the Bank of Slovenia and the Securities Market Agency should take them individually. Because if we ever have – the ideas were about this – to unite them and so on, of course we can also talk about that single regulator, but we need to talk about each one individually. As a result, the comparison with the Bank of Slovenia, what is actually happening here and what was happening in the banking area, is unnecessary. Not necessary because there is simply no comparison here, at least not a direct comparison. Each agency, each institution actually controls its own area: one insurance company, one stock exchange and a stock exchange, one bank. Here, once again, there are ideas for this to come together, but for now we have each other. Of course, the question now arises whether we are satisfied with this control here. I actually have to come back here a few months ago, maybe even a few more weeks, because this saga continued on how it is read, how it is fulfilled under the existing legal provision. If we are talking about this article, for which we had to adopt a mandatory explanation – I think it is in Article 48 of the Law – where it was stipulated by the amendment to limit the costs that institutions that keep securities can charge the owners of these securities when the actual Ministry of Finance and the ATVP, and so on, has explained everything in its own way. And since it explained in its own way, it explained in a different way than the intention of the applicants at the time, as the explanation had been given and as it had actually written in the law. And that's what an agency or the Ministry of Finance can do. Of course, it is now also emerging in relation to this law, because it speaks of the supervisory function and of the ATVP, how much we can trust in individual institutions, supervisory institutions, in terms of implementation, in terms of compliance with the legal provisions. It is my opinion that as much as we trust these people who are in these institutions. Well, this is where it turned out, including the opinion of the former Minister of Finance and former Secretary of State and so on. In fact, here we see that whatever Parliament adopts is actually going to be the implementation of this depending on whether people, not institutions, because institutions are people, actually they are doing it. Here, if you want, the executive authority and the Ministry of Finance in this case, the supervisory authority – the ATVP in this case, simply laid down the entire line. In terms of non-implementation and in terms of how to avoid these rules. That is why we then had work and further explanations here and so on, which I agree with the Legal and Legal Service that they are unnecessary because the law was clear. I'm perfectly clear! And since the explanation of the law is part of the article under which the article must be understood, the explanation in fact provides for this, it was even more crystal clear to all but the supervisory institution except the Ministry of Finance. So sometimes in this marriage, I wonder what we accept. The question that will now arise here is whether or not this amendment will allow us to adopt something that will be unsupervised. Here, at least from two colleagues, Mr Christmas and Mr Verbic, it was said that if these accounts, which we propose, are also regulated by notaries and lawyers, they will be unsupervised to be something special. But no! If you read the amendment and the explanation for the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, then you can read here – and this is part of the law – that we propose that lawyers and notaries offer their customers the management of intangible securities and so on, but provided that they meet all the conditions and guarantees as stockbrokers and that they have previously obtained the permission of the ATVP. What's the problem now? What are they going to be different from the rest of them? And that's part of the law, ladies and gentlemen! It's part of the law. As a result, the debate is that they will be something special, personally irrelevant to me. We say it ourselves here, and that's part of the law, which means they have to get permission from the ATVP. The explanation of the article of the law is part of the law, and otherwise the law must not be interpreted. Look, it's legal and legal, and so on. From this point of view now all these criticisms or different opinions, different opinions, different assessments and so on do not actually stand for me, they are not relevant to me. And here it can be an additional regulation or a restriction of competition and so on, as my colleagues have already pointed out. From this point of view, we really don't see any reason here for this amendment not to be accepted for the benefit of everyone. Everyone will operate under the same conditions, everyone will operate under the conditions of the ATVP. I also hope that the ATVP will monitor everything equally; that there will also be equality on this side. Let's say it will. That is why this amendment is more important for someone, especially for those who do not propose it and who believe that the Government is doing everything 100% right, is less important. But if it's more important to someone, then, of course, it can be tied to supporting the marriage. It's perfectly legitimate and there's no question here. It is not a question of whether this amendment or a different amendment and so on. He would now go to the general debate about how many amendments the opposition has adopted, because these are old stories, and we know that few are — after all, in all the congregations, not just that. However, it is also an offer of a deadline for cooperation, a time-limit for joint solutions. After all, if anyone is wrong, this amendment can be supplemented, we know how this can actually be done, even by whom. If there will be another amendment that will go in the same direction and someone who will like it better, who will provide more, then there is no problem. However, it is offered in this direction – at least by the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u27	Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I wanted to respond only to one of the claims that was now being made. In this case, it also flew to us to be unsupervised. I do not agree with this, maybe there was some misunderstanding, but in principle the previous debate in this direction, that in both cases, it is said that what the United Left has prepared, as well as what you have prepared for the SDS, is a recognition in this direction, that you have also focused on the two problems that we have discussed – that is, the guarantee – what to do with it, what to do with control. So that's what you're up to. [[…]] And then the debate that I had before kind of went in the direction of transparency, and it kind of narrowed it down. The fundamental difference is mainly what we have repeatedly stressed: in the first paragraph of Article 255, it expressly prohibits those who have somehow been set up for this purpose to collect these securities or have commercial accounts, the stock exchange houses, banks, this is explicitly prohibited. We do, however, have a situation because it is foreseen below, which is described below in this article as one exception which was intended for another reason. Now, in fact, a special regime would allow such a solution. This regime is a stock exchange house, and banks can't afford it. This is precisely why the response to what Mr Horvat from NSI has said; it is said that the free market, competitiveness and so on – is where we come to that differentiation. Thus, those companies that are supervised for this purpose do not have this option, to another lady, but it is true that you have given those supplements to be supervised, they will have to respect; they will have to send these data to some competent institutions to be able to control them. However, there will still be no direct view, which they provide when we talk about this kind of public, stock books, or registers. In this regard, opposition — or one of the most important — is because it is possible for someone else to do something that is not possible for the first person who is actually established for this purpose. So, keeping securities through fiduciary accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u29	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll be honest with you about something that Dr. Matić would particularly be very happy to say. I'm probably the first person to debate at this point who's not an expert on this. I didn't. I'm for a few areas. I'm not for that. Which, of course, doesn't mean I'm having this debate, a little over my finger on these things. But I also have a historical memory. I'm just old enough to be an out-of-the-boxed little pydo stockholder. Some others were smarter than others, and most of the ones we talk about here probably had more happiness than intelligence and would not want to be insulting to them. If we put this whole story into a slightly broader concept — what is the problem? We went to some parliamentary democracy, which is quite depreciated, and we also went to capitalism, and somehow we didn't understand it. Now it's a quarter of a century past, and except for a few rare exceptions, if you want, the garbage mafia, energy, mostly some infrastructure, I'll say there's no strawberries on the cake. And then individual sectors are looking at where they'd eat a little bit more cream. If you have listened carefully to what the Secretary of State has explained, in fact, he said something like this: because we have in some way abused the European Directive, which is very much done in this Parliament, that the European Directive is waving so that we have allowed little cream to the stockbrokers and partly to the banks, and now the United Left and its amendments are spilferbers. It also seems to me that it is unacceptable for Mr Verbic to talk about – and now we will debate differently whether there were 280 thousand in the beginning or now there are only 100 000 – a group of citizens and citizens as a group. You know, that's when we talked about — what? – household apartments, but they were only “like” 60, and this is not a group. On another occasion, we talked about a law that would be written to someone who would write "Turček" instead of "Trček" when I went to some farm tourism, and you said that because of this, only three of them took short notice. You know, it's just a matter of mindlessness. But if I go back to one of our amendments now. Of course, as a fellow Shircelj said, who is an expert on this, although he has somewhere else a piece of butter on his head from a political career – let us stand still – in fact, we are all for some transparency and control, which does not mean, you know that you are abusing an EU directive to force people into some kind of story. I'm going to use the one I know too many times here, which is also against the Constitution if we go seriously brother of the Constitution. Small shareholders, as many as there are in this society and country, always have problems and problems and try to play them out and kick them out. We in this amendment good idea of stock support on the one hand, on the other hand, the issue of the opacity of fiduciaries we are trying to resolve and resolve somehow. This is a proposal in essence for our amendment, of course in favour of this, as my colleague Verbic said, group. That's the short-circuit of it. A story like that was picked up by SDS. But some other colleague Verbič explained why what they are proposing is in practice a little more difficult to implement than our amendment. It's basically kind of the whole story. But obviously the coalition continues this story, which, in fact, in almost all sectors of our society or, if you want, the macro-economic work is driven through this call by the National Assembly. Someone writes a marriage, draws it through some ministry, and then somehow defends it. There's actually a key issue here. Let's stop this once, I'll say, indecency not to use any worse word, that we always wave with an EU directive that is not read by most people, and then it is spoken, and this is necessary because of the EU directive and then it is threatened: yes, and here are some other penalties, let's hurry. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u31	Because he was still interested, I'm asking you to report him. The word has magic. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Expected, as on the Committee on Finances of the Labour Authority, at the meeting of the National Assembly, the main debate takes place around 255th Article of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments and 25th Article of the Law amending this Act. It all began with a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the Government with regard to the amendment of this Article. To begin with, I will explain why, in the course of the Committee's meeting, the suspension of the Committee's meeting, the amendment tabled and the working body and the meeting of the National Assembly, it was not only for the conversion of words, as we were told. The initial proposal of the Ministry of Finance, and here with my colleague Verbic, who has already discussed it, unfortunately I cannot agree with it, has been somewhat problematic. In the new paragraph 10 it was stated that a lawyer or notary should not require a stockbroker to keep non-materialised securities in a fiduciary account in accordance with the fourth paragraph of this Article. This has already been contrary to the general prohibition of keeping fiduciary accounts referred to in Article 255, paragraph 1. And if you look at the amendment of the coalition to this article, this dictatorship is gone. This initial proposal was also problematic because of the terminology used in the second sentence, namely, the independent service of lawyers, which does not contain a fourth paragraph of the law in force, but refers to the activities of a lawyer carried out in accordance with other laws and by calling on clients, holders of intangible securities, which was also an indefinite period. What was in the second sentence of the original MF proposal is no longer in the amendment of the coalition, so the last amendment of the coalition for the National Assembly eliminates all these uncertainties and inconsistencies and does not talk about it anymore, so we will, of course, be able to imagine it, we will also support it in the SMC. Following the submission of amendments to the coalition and to the United Left and the SDS, the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders and Mr Verbic also expected to respond in his response to the last paragraph in order that this amendment of the coalition would be acceptable if, in the end, they added that for the conduct of a fiduciary account for the purpose of carrying out a purchase or sale transaction, they wanted to add, “or for the purpose of carrying out another permissible legal business, if it was not possible to carry out a more effective or with a greater level of legal certainty”. Here we are again faced with the extension of the purpose of the law or the amendment of this article to prevent market abuse and distortion of competition on the market, by adding again to the undefined concepts of efficiency and greater levels of legal certainty. That is why we cannot accept this last proposal from the VZMD and insist on our basic policy of amendment for the meeting of the National Assembly. Let me just reiterate that in the first sentence of the new tenth paragraph, “a lawyer, notary or a lawyer must not keep intangible securities of a client in a fiduciary account where the subject or basis of a contract on the basis of which non-materialised securities would be kept in a fiduciary account, only keeping” – I stress, only keeping – “these intangibleised securities in a fiduciary account” and in the second, “a lawyer, notary or lawyer company does not violate the prohibition of the previous sentence if the intangible securities are kept in a fiduciary account for the purpose of carrying out a transaction, purchase or sale that is common to multiple holders of intangible securities”. With this second sentence, we are able to get as close as possible to what the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders expects, which means we do not destroy them, we do not destroy the market of financial instruments, we do not terminate small shares. And it is no wonder that in its response in the last paragraph, the VZM referred to the amendment of the coalition, of course with the extension, which we cannot accept, which I have already explained. The VZMD also provides an answer to the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment, which says that lawyers and notaries could do all of this if they obtained permission from the investment services and business agency. The VZMD says that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the problem, as seen by the VZMD, does not solve the problem, as it makes an impossible requirement that notaries and lawyers should obtain an ATVP permit for the provision of investment services. He continues: “The lawyers and notaries cannot obtain such permission due to restrictions in their home laws.” Pika. In our view, the amendment of the United Left is particularly problematic in the proposed new second indent of paragraph 10, which refers to the conclusion of the insurance. According to our behavior, according to the Ministry of Finance, there is no such insurance on the market. To introduce a legislative amendment because we expect such an offer of insurance to be established on the market once we have adopted this law, if it were to be adopted by this proposed amendment, of course, is irresponsible until the conditions are met. And it looks something like this: we're going to write something to you that looks like we're going to get your hands on it, but at the same time we don't know if you're going to get that kind of insurance. That is why, of course, we will not support the United Left in the coalition of this amendment. But there is one more thing to say about this story, the truth to love. Although the first paragraph of Article 55 prohibits fiduciary accounts and introduces an exception in paragraph 4, with the addition today at 10, it must be said that there is no ban on fiduciary accounts elsewhere in Europe. Now Slovenia is not an isolated market for financial instruments and there is a possibility that Mr Verbič has already mentioned in his debate on the Committee, announced that the current owners, as well as the VZMD, are all set up through a fiduciary account abroad. There are two things to mention here. This is the public of the stock book that we have decided about in Slovenia and we have it. This debate cannot be opened in the context of the debate on this law at all because this is provided for by the Law on Intangible Securities. Let me remind you that at the time of Amendment A in 2006, in the government of Janez Janša, such a proposal was on the table and was rejected on the committee. Why — because of the pressure of the public. This is some historic moment that we still want to follow, and this is the public of the stock book. The other thing is that, if we want to change this, we should take a systematic look at whether we really want it and what it does to the market of financial instruments and to operate on the market of intangible securities; while, in the context of constantly facing the evidence of the return of some Taiwanese capital from tax havens, imprudentity in the sale or privatisation market, of course, once again, there is no ban on fiduciary accounts elsewhere in Europe. Therefore, the real question is how, in fact, with this change in the law we will have things arranged differently in Europe, the Securities Market Agency, will be able to fulfil its mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u33	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. On the one hand, the debate is interesting and, on the one hand, I am a little surprised by my colleague Verbic, or even disappointed when it is unacceptable for him that the opposition requires the adoption of a law in case the amendment is supported. For we are convinced that without the adoption of the opposition's amendment, the law will be weak and will prevent a so-called free market economy; and that is, my opinion, the legitimate right of the opposition to give transparent orders before the debate: we are conditional on this and because we are convinced that if this amendment is not adopted, the law will be bad and we cannot support it. A great deal of speech was also made by the Secretary of State, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, but now, if it is adopted – I do not know whether the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party or the amendment of the United Left – would somehow undermine transparency in Slovenia. Most of the talk now is in this direction that for one reason or another we will not be able to reach the actual holder of the securities. What about strangers, what about foreign, respected secretary of state? Take a look at the equity book of individual companies today. What about over there? Foreign financial institutions are not prohibited from doing business with Slovenian entities. Then what's there? And here it seems to me that the matter that falls is exactly why you do not support this amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u35	First of all, before I reopen the opportunity to discuss, I am giving Mr Tiln Bozic the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u36	Perhaps this last discussion alone is the only briefer response. When it comes to transparency. Now, the core of the problem that the Ministry of Finance is also putting forward is mainly related to this unequal situation that happens to it, it is said that the stockbrokers and the bank are not explicitly allowed to do so – it is said to be managed through fiduciary accounts – and it would be possible for someone else, as has already been said, who has obtained this exception for some other reason. So it's kind of chronic. But the second thing you mentioned was transparency. It has an impact on transparency, with what you have said being said abroad, which is also, I think already a colleague or Member Krajnc, I apologize, that there is a constant in foreign fiduciary accounts. But that's where they decided to do it. They opted for some indirect securities holding, that was their decision to call it political, we are, therefore, Slovenia has decided somehow differently. In this way, even when it has somehow adapted its legislation to European law, it has also highlighted and maintained this exception. Thus, I do not say that foreign companies can enter this market in a different way, but when we talk about the regulation of our market, and when we talk about who can have fiduciary accounts opened in Slovenia and through them somehow has one scheme, which is then traded, it maintains securities, that it is inappropriate for notaries, lawyers who have obtained this right to the exemption for another reason, to do something that those who have been called first — the bank, the stock exchange houses, which are also properly regulated and so on — should not do so because they are prohibited. Thus this kind of political orientation – the public of the stock book, openness and so on – remains. For this reason, our view is that a possible opening in such a way that someone, to say the least, would give a different competitive advantage – seems inappropriate to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u37	First, it's a replica of mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u38	Madam President, thank you once again for your word. The Secretary of State did not directly answer my question. We're talking about closing a stock book or something, but he didn't say what shares in foreign financial institutions' fiduciary accounts can be held by any domestic buyer? No, no, no. That means someone can still find the perimeter. Here I am wondering now when you're defending this transparency, whether you're going to try to fix this system in some way or not. I don't think that's possible. And don't make excuses for that. I will read this amendment once again, which we are putting into the Slovenian Democratic Party "... which fulfils all the conditions of the guarantee, as applicable, for stock brokering companies under the supervision of an agency which can also impose measures or sanctions in the context of supervision of the provision of investment services and business". That means the regulator has all the controls. This means that the regulator has all the insight into what is going to happen in lawyers or in notary accounts. The amendment of the United Left even says that you should be reported to the ATVP afterwards. It means that control is as it should be, and thus does not reduce control if the possibility of business and storage is in place for both lawyers and notaries. But look, I think it's already been quite clear in the positions of the coalition parliamentary groups what path you're going to take again. Look, I think the responsibility is in front of you. I am convinced that both the debate on the parent board and today's has shown that it would make sense to support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party or the amendment of the United Left and to avoid certain perceptions that this coalition is directly working for a certain part of the financial industry and that, on the other hand, one part of this small financial industry is making it impossible for small shareholders. I am also convinced that the Ministry of Finance, the representative of the Ministry of Finance, has not provided those concrete answers to the questions that have been on our side and that, in fact, if someone here is also looking in some way to avoid direct answers to very specific questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u39	Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening the way for the application. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. I have a little time. I'll be very short. My friend Marko told us about our security guard. This is the most normal thing in parliamentary democracy, however, to bind the adoption of the amendment and support for the law. On the other hand, you are withdrawing items from the agenda proposed by the opposition without explanation and once tonin; on the other hand, you are bending someone else's hand in the hallway. Hello!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u41	The word has a doctor – not a doctor, mag. Dušan Verbich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. I think that was well-intentioned. I must admit, in some context, that I am in a group of Members who are extremely looking forward to the Constitutional Court's decision on authentic interpretation. At this point, I conclude, and I think that the decision of the Constitutional Court will also show a great deal in the direction of all the debates that have been connected when I speak of the amendment to Article 46 or 48 tabled by the SDS Group at that time, and I must admit that, from the outset, I have also been a great advocate of this amendment table. I am very pleased that honourable Member Shirtzelj has also highlighted something. However, we may experience almost a revolutionary change in the area of control in this mandate, if I may call it financial transactions, financial instruments, in order to bring these so-called institutions together, because I believe that this should have happened in the Republic of Slovenia. What has also been said about the regulation, the directives being transposed, here I have to admit that I have a slightly different position, because, speaking now of the specific regulation and the Ministry of Finance, which we are transferring, we simply need to remember that this kind of Law on the Market of Financial Instruments with the code F last year has been amended. This is said to be the focus of the Ministry of Finance, at least I estimate, not only the transposition of the regulation, but a serious desire to have control of such transactions started; what in the Republic of Slovenia should have been in other areas for decades. That's what I'm looking at. I am also a great advocate and also Dr. Franz Trčku, while still here, I answer that he misjudged me when he called me to defend the coalition amendment. No, at the outset, I said that I advocated the initial position of the Ministry of Finance, because this was a key message for me if we want to implement or enable the regulator to lead such matters as it should be. In view of the fact that there was no talk in the debate about something that seemed very important to me: after the current regime, who can provide auxiliary investment services? The fact is that this is clearly recorded – investment firms and banks. It's over! If, with amendments, a certain part of the business relating to Article 10 of the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments, which is written down by the Constitutional Court to assist judicial authorities, notaries and lawyers is to be allowed to do so, I would like to point out that, in some way, it is interesting why, under a free economic initiative, only these two groups can make such transactions possible. For the auxiliary investment services, if you look at Article 10, is seven indents and here is now only the first indent. I simply need to reiterate why I do not include under a free economic initiative an amendment, for the first time, the guardian of the legacy, for the second time, the custodian of special cases, insolvency administrators and other caregivers. Here I have a thought of the well-intentionedness of the applicants. It is understandable that everyone has a certain point of view and in some ways wants to give a free economic initiative to individual groups, but it seems personal to him that it is only fair then to make it possible for everyone, not just one piece. What I'd like to mention to the end is one more time. I think it is the duty of the National Assembly and of us Members to act in the field of the market in financial instruments and also in other areas where financial operations are committed, to really start a consistent implementation and also our expectations that we also react to the failure to exercise so-called control over this market. I think that these expectations are justified and that is why I am more in the position of the IMF, because with this amendment to the law and the transposition of the regulation, it is clear to me that it is determined that we want to end the practice so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u43	Since it's obviously still an interest in the debate, I'm reopening the possibility of you applying. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In this final debate, however, my colleague Verbic did not understand in one particular segment what the Constitutional Court has in mind and the authentic interpretation of the second law on paper management and the issue of the costs of connection with this law with the amendments we are currently discussing. That's not clear to me. Or it goes, I'd say, it's more about blind maneuvering the fog, so something's said to go around the essence of the problem that we're discussing today and that we want to expose. On the other hand, once again, colleague Verbič is talking about some revolutionary solutions to single control. There is no revolutionary solution, because there are many countries, I would say, in both the European Union and Europe, it has such control over one regulator. However, I think more about what is being said more and more in public that the Ministry of Public Administration is preparing to amend a certain law in these regulators when the state is supposed to have a greater impact and a greater direct impact on these agencies. This is very wrong, my esteemed colleague Verbich. And if you want a single supervisor, look, you have scissors and a canvas in your hands. You have 46 votes every day, as much as you need for such a change, and not here to deceive. If you have decided to support only one part of the financial industry in this law, look, then this is the case. But I'm sure that this is not the right course, and over the past three years, we've seen this a number of times, and that the consequences of your decisions are felt mainly by small people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u45	Replica, Mr. Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have to replicate because I believe that, whether you like or not, the honourable Member did not understand what I had tied to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court decides and I assume that it will soon decide on the authentic interpretation of the register accounts and this registration account is one of the Members [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u47	Is there any other desire to discuss it? Not in this article, so I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Peace in the hall, please! Anybody want to talk? Not this time, too. So I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill on the verification of lists in international traffic, an orderly procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u48	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear Members and Members! The applicable Act on the Certification of Instruments in International Transport was adopted in 2001. This is a technical law that is important to customers, to people, to legal persons. It lays down the rules under which public documents issued in the Republic of Slovenia are certified for use abroad and the rules under which public documents issued abroad, in a foreign country, are certified for use in the Republic of Slovenia. 15 years is a long time. In the meantime, a number of things have happened, material legislation has changed in various other areas, and the practice of competent authorities has changed, there have been quite a few suggestions from the professional public, and finally we have seen a lot of rapid developments in technology. That is why there is a new law before us, with which we will achieve further rationalisation of decision-making in the procedures for the certification of public documents, easier enforcement of the rights of the parties. We also aim to implement the principle of speed and cost-effectiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u49	The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Committee on Justice is at its 29th session. 1. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on the certification of documents in international traffic submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. The Committee took note of the following material: a proposal for a law published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 5. 12. 2016, by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of Justice, the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the definition of the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Law and Legal Service and the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Order of 30. 1. 2017. Amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups were tabled within the time limit. In a supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant, the Minister of Justice, said that this was a law that had not been amended since 2001. In particular, amendments and additions allowing for the further rationalisation of the decision-making of competent authorities in the procedures for the certification of public documents, the modernisation of transactions using electronic documents and the facilitation of the exercise of the rights of parties with a view to the implementation of the speed and cost-effectiveness of the procedure. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that all the amendments tabled adequately address the concerns expressed by the PSC in the written opinion. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission supported the proposal of the law for state regulation, as the representative of the Notary Chamber said, their proposals were also taken into account. There was no debate. The Committee adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups and, in accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u51	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia delegation, which is not available, has the floor. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Alexander Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u52	Dear President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, the esteemed high choir! The current law governing the certification of domestic public documents intended for use abroad, i.e. the Law on the Authorisations of Instruments in International Transport, from the adoption itself, has never been amended from 2001 onwards. Given that much of the rest of the legislation has changed in the last 16 years, the law that we are considering today also needs to be properly harmonised and updated. The procedures in which competent authorities participate in the verification of public documents shall be simplified and further streamlined by the proposed law. Practices that have turned out to be outdated, however, the proposal leaves the law and replaces them with modern models. In view of today's extended possibility of e-commerce, the proposal for a law on the certification of documents in international traffic also takes into account the possibility of issuing a public document in such a way as to sign an electronic document and the envisaged electronic form of the certificate of verification. The draft law is fully adapted to the applicable rules in the Republic of Slovenia as a result of legislative changes and is in strict compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Today we are considering a proposal for a law containing modern solutions that reflect changes in substantive legislation, the practice of competent authorities and the proposals of the professional public. For all these reasons, Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for a law on the certification of documents in international traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u54	Nice hello to you all! President, thank you for your word. The Law on Charter Certifications in International Transport was adopted in mid-2001. From the adoption until today, the law has not changed. The government has not decided to amend the existing law, but has tabled a new proposal for a law in the parliamentary procedure, including on the basis of nomotechnic guidelines. Thus before us is the Law on the Authorisations of Instruments in International Traffic, which does not bring about significant changes, this is recognised by the Government itself. While the Government correctly notes that the existing law, due to its distance from its creation to today and consequently some obsolete solutions, needs to be adapted to the current time and needs when it comes to deciding the competent authorities in the process of verifying public documents. The amendments to the law are thus intended to further rationalise the decision-making of the competent authorities in the procedures for attesting public documents, updates in the sense of electronic documents, as well as facilitate the exercise of the rights of parties to implement the speed and cost-effectiveness of the process itself. The law is also intended to bring greater protection to the rights of parties exercising or seeking to verify documents in international traffic. It is true, however, that the Government or the proposer of the law, the Ministry of Justice, would expect more consistency in a law that is not substantively demanding and even less extensive. In fact, the law is drawn up on five sides and has a total of 20 articles, of which the Legislative and Legal Service has made its comments on six articles. This was then corrected or supplemented by amendments by the coalition, but we would only expect the Ministry to act a little more consistently and more responsibly on such large-scale proposals. In short, we do not intend to oppose the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Hello, Minister with a coworker, and welcome to all present in the National Assembly! The Act on the certification of documents in international traffic is used for the certification of public documents issued in the Republic of Slovenia, which are intended for use abroad, or for the certification of foreign documents which are intended for use in our country. The law in force was passed in 2001 and has been in force for about 15 and a half years. The law has not yet been amended, and both the application in practice and the amendment of other legislation indicate that it needs to be updated and updated. Therefore, the proposal we are considering brings about important acquisitions of certification procedures. The bill allows for further rationalisation of the decision-making of the competent authorities, removes administrative obstacles, and will make it easier for the parties to exercise their rights from now on. The current law does not, inter alia, allow for the certification of public documents which have been originally issued in electronic form and, therefore, the proposal makes it possible to issue and sign public documents by electronic means. Given that the Charters of the Self-Governmental Local Communities are rarely subject to international transport, they will also be subject to the current regime in the future. On the proposal of the coalition parliamentary groups, the amendment deleted the original provision of the bill on depositing signatures, seals and stamps. The bill will improve and streamline the decision-making procedures for the verification of public documents, so we will support it in the Desus Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! As we will support the proposal for a law on the certification of documents in international traffic, we note that the Law on the Certification of Instruments in International Traffic has not in fact changed since 2001. While other regulations have changed and new technologies have developed in parallel, which enable otherwise, we also hope that more rational and more transparent international transport operations will be carried out. The main purpose of this proposed law is to comply with the applicable laws and regulations and to facilitate the rationalisation of business also with the news related to the possibility of verifying public documents issued in electronic format and to allow public documents to be issued and signed electronically. The electronic form of the certification certificate is also foreseen and we believe that these are important and essential changes that can greatly help to reduce administration. It is also important that the issuers of public documents are subject to the obligation to deposit the signatures of authorised persons and the fingerprints of their seals or stamps and to notify the electronic signature certificates used by their authorised workers for the electronic signature of public documents issued in electronic format. The law also lays down obligations on the part of notaries. It has been determined that they must deposit their signatures, fingerprints of their stamps or stamps for the purpose of attesting their documents and to notify the electronic signature certificates to the district court in which they are established, as well as to the Ministry of Justice. This is especially important for the client. This way, the parties will know where to authenticate a public document issued by a notary. For the sake of business safety, it is required that, in addition to notary of its signatures at the competent ministry, notary assistants be deposited, allowing their signatures to be certified at the competent ministry, not only in the district court, as has been regulated so far. Therefore, the adoption of the law will make it easier for the parties to exercise their rights. The proposed amendment shall give rise to the obligation of the authorising officer to submit a power of representation to the party where a request for the certification of a public instrument has also been submitted. The bill reflects changes in substantive legislation in all these years since 2001, and we will therefore support the proposal for a law on the certification of documents in international traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LAW ON JUSTICE IN THE FRAMEWORK OF Regular PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u60	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Judicial Procedure is a fundamental procedural provision which provides a framework for more than two thirds of all legal proceedings. The new ZPP-E, which is ahead of you, is an extensive novel. More than 130 articles are amended and are the product of broad professional coordination throughout 2016 and contain a number of solutions based on good domestic and foreign practices. With the new PPP, which is ahead of you, the government or the ministry is pursuing three key objectives. The first and main objective is to simplify case law and thereby increase the legal predictability of judicial decision and consequently legal certainty and confidence in law. This objective is achieved by extending the conditions for an approved audit, by allowing access to the Supreme Court, which will be newly allowed for all under the same conditions, at the same time abolishing the permissible audit, which will mean that the Supreme Court will decide only those matters which are crucial for the development of law and the simplification of case law. In other words, rather than quantity quality. The pure concept of an approved audit is also professionally and comparatively the fundamental lever which aims to unify the case law. An additional lever of unifying the case law, which is a problem detected and recognised in the Republic of Slovenia, is also a new advisory opinion institute which can be addressed to the Supreme Court during the first or second stage proceedings under certain conditions. The second objective is to strengthen the authority of the judge and the transparency of the judiciary as a whole. The amendments strengthen the authority of the Court of First Instance by allowing it to have greater open trial options, the duty to prepare and plan the conduct of the proceedings, which will lead to better and more concentrated handling of the dispute. At the same time, such a procedure will also speed up judicial proceedings and increase the possibility of a negotiated settlement of the dispute. The authority of the Court of Appeal shall be strengthened by monitoring and limiting the possibility of bringing the cases back to trial, which, as a result, requires several main hearings in the Court of Appeal, but also by completing the proceedings at the second stage without returning to this occasionally vicious circle, which takes place in the Slovenian Court of Justice in the submission of files between different stages. The authority of the Supreme Court shall be strengthened by recognising the constitutional role of the Supreme Court as the key precedent court in a country already responsible for the development of legal and legal arguments under the Constitution and for the unification of case law. We are introducing a new institute of separate opinions, introducing the possibility of public declaration of judgments and the execution of public hearings at the Supreme Court. The third objective is to strengthen the care and discipline of the parties and all other participants in the proceedings. The parties will be obliged, as soon as possible and as closely as possible in the process, to state all, for the procedure of legally relevant facts, additional levers for the timely production of expert opinions shall be introduced, stricter arrangements for the submission of documents, mandatory preparatory action and more. In addition to these key solutions, the novelty also contains a series of other solutions aimed at providing more quality and speedier trial and decision-making on key issues. We are confident that these solutions will help to unify the case-law, to speed up the resolution of disputes, and at the same time, at the Ministry of Justice, we have set ourselves the goal of providing, in the light of the many innovations brought by law, one of the biggest and most important novelties of procedural legislation in recent years – a broad and high-quality education of relevant judicial stakeholders on new solutions. If you support the law, we are confident that this will allow faster access to rights for individuals and businesses, and thus indirectly and ultimately strengthening legal security not only for individuals but also for the strengthening of the business environment. Since the business conditions are met, I propose that a third review of the bill be carried out at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Justice Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Committee on Justice is at its 29th session. 1. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for reasons and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 5. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Council of Justice, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure, the definition of the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments of the Bar, the comments of the State Defence and the comments of the six trade unions. In a complementary explanation, the representative of the proponent, Minister of Justice, said that the proposed novel is aimed at modernising the Slovenian justice process and aligning it with the latest global trends. The approach to the bill was comprehensive, with the cooperation of domestic and foreign experts. The solutions proposed are aimed at speeding up and simplifying fair procedures, taking into account the client's right to a fair trial. The position of the Court of First Instance shall be strengthened by the suspension of the compulsory pre-trial order and the establishment of a management programme. The proposed regulation of the audit permit recognises the position of the highest court in charge of uniting the case-law and developing the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that most of their comments were duly taken into account and made a comment on the issue of the non-binding advisory opinion of the Supreme Court. It considered such opinions to be questionable in view of the constitutional role of the Supreme Court. With regard to the Institute of Separate Opinions at the Supreme Court, however, it points out that the Institute should be implemented simultaneously in the Criminal Procedure Act. The State Council presented the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which supports the proposal for a law. As problematic, it underlines the re-introduction of a draft order with a limited number of applications prepared, a new electronic service regime, questions about the legal nature of the advisory opinions and the opposition to the abolition of the Institute of permitted audit and the issue of the use of the implementing opinion in the second procedure. The representative of the Supreme Court presented the proposed amendments, which will help bring about more effective judicial proceedings. The amendments in the field of audit were proposed by their side because they consider that the audit allowed creates inequalities between citizens and thus threatens legal certainty. The Supreme Court must remain a case-by-case court which, by its decisions on important legal issues, contributes to the development of law and the unification of case-law. The Advocate General drew attention to the non-validity of disclosure of classified information during the procedure, the method of identification of the electronic writer and the limitation of the number of preparatory applications. As a matter of concern, the Chamber of Lawyers has highlighted electronic service, opposes the termination of the audit permit and, as has been problematicly assessed by the number of preparatory applications. The Notary Chamber also draws attention to electronic service. However, most of the comments were taken into account. Members cautioned in the debate that citizens want to solve their cases quickly. The opposition Members proposed that the delivery solutions should also be aligned with the European Regulation, reducing the costs of cooperation and the functioning of the courts and increasing accessibility for the parties. The Coalition Members welcomed the solutions aimed at strengthening the role of the Supreme Court, which will help in quality decisions and in uniting the judicial crack, as well as strengthening the position of the First Instance Judge. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 112 and 130 of the SMC, Desus and SD's amendments and also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u64	Dear Minister, dear Members and Members of Parliament, good afternoon! The objective of a fair trial is a fair decision. The decision of the court must be duly and lawfully concluded at a reasonable time and with as little costs as possible. These are the real performance indicators of the courts, which unfortunately lead Slovenian courts down the ladders. It is the obligation of the courts and, following the proposal of today's novelty, the obligation of the parties and other parties to the proceedings. There are some improvements in the bill before us. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the obligation to call for a preliminary order in which the judge develops a management programme and a timetable. We also welcome the introduction of the Institute of Separate Opinions of Supreme Judges in civil, economic, labour and administrative matters, following the example of Constitutional Judges. If we are talking about the public of the judiciary, then we have the right of citizens to know and to get to know any separate opinions of the Supreme Judges. The introduction of the option of a separate adhesive or dissuasive separate opinion will help the greater public, greater transparency and better justification for the decisions of the highest courts in the country. However, there are still dilemmas and open questions that leave a different interpretation in this novel. We stress the abolition of the audit permit, which, in our view, leads to a decrease in access to justice. It is right, however, that the role of the Supreme Court as the highest court in charge of the uniformity of judicial practice is strengthened. We know that the lack of uniformity of judicial practice is one of the major obstacles to our judicial system. We would like to point out that the Supreme Court is often the last step before bringing an action before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. Here our country is the bearer of the greatest proportion of human rights violations, so the Supreme Court obviously does not carry out its tasks as it should. It is worrying that Slovenia loses as much as 94 percent of all cases in Strasbourg. The non-binding advisory opinions of the Supreme Court, which will be issued in the course of the proceedings before the Court of First Instance, may also be problematic, thus reaching into the proceedings at the first stage and not only at the last, i.e. the highest level, i.e. once the way is exhausted before the courts of the first and second stages. Although the opinions are formally non-binding, they will actually have a binding effect, as judges at first and second stages will not decide otherwise in practice. So if the Supreme Judges actually decide in a specific court procedure at the first stage – what will they do in the case of the audit submitted? The Law-Legal Service also draws attention to these matters. A special chapter, which is not acceptable for New Slovenia, is a new mode of service, which does not provide sufficient legal basis for increased accessibility of courts by electronic means. There is no reduction in costs for businesses or for citizens and the judiciary, and all matters are not adapted to the European legal order, at least as regards e-services. Our amendments, which we tabled in the second reading before the mother's working body, represented a step forward in the direction of greater and, above all, easier access to courts in all civil proceedings. Unfortunately, the coalition of our amendments has not accepted. That is why we have re- tabled amendments for the plenary session, with which we want to improve the accessibility and service of the courts by electronic means. In New Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the Law on Justice, provided that our amendments are also adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! There are changes ahead of us that have been necessary for a long time. If we look at the research in the judiciary, we see that a large number of people are suing themselves, they expect a solution from the judiciary, because they themselves are unable to solve matters, but confidence in the judiciary on the other hand is very poor. As already mentioned, the biggest fallout is on a fair trial, so here are the biggest problems. The objectives pursued by the changes are that the concept and the centre and the weight of all changes are at the first stage and that we must follow measurable decisions. As you know, I stand for the theory that once there's a way through the court, not that things are going back to a lower degree. This creates the practice pursued in this proposal. I also welcome the solution implemented from abroad, for example from Austria, Germany, a step-by-step action, because we are following the property. That's the essence of these procedures. Submit and track the property. Of course, with such extensive changes – we see that there are about 130 articles – there will be many problems. Some were warned by the profession, the Legislative and Legal Service, the new institutes, the role of the Supreme Court in the advisory and separate opinions and, of course, the role of the second stage. I still feel that there will be exceptions and ambiguities in returning matters to the first stage. Of course, some of these changes should already be implemented under existing legislation, but unfortunately not. I therefore point out that the changes that will be adopted – depending on how they will be implemented. The idea that a judge must already have all the elements in his head before the judgment, and on the basis of this, a pre-trial complaint, I think that a good judge has already done this in practice and it is only some kind of implementation of what everyone should do. Procedural delay and postponement were also possible under existing legislation, but I do not believe that this was carried out because the second stage was certainly the first stage of the contract, but that the proposal of the parties could still be taken into account. So, something was already being implemented and it wasn't being implemented. I hope that this proposal will be implemented. What does this proposal bring? It brings changes and a first-degree center. Of course, I expect support staff and other solutions to be included in the system solution. For if that noble trial is in the first instance, then I expect judges to be judged that way and that they will progress accordingly, but not that some will want to go directly to the second stage, without that noble trial at the first, where the emphasis is. We support the proposal in the Group of Non-Aligned Members to this extent because it brings good solutions. We note, however, that there will be a need for practice and that implementation will have to be monitored, that there will be no exceptions that will be misused in practice, that this will become a constant and that things will continue to return to the first stage. That is why I am still defending the principle of a one-way trip through the court, thus shaping the case law and building the reputation of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Government, a very nice greeting to all! The Law on Justice is one of the key procedural instruments for the resolution of civil disputes. I'm sorry we're not here today. The Law on Justice is – I do not find it difficult to repeat again what I said on the committee – alpha and omega court proceedings, 80 per cent of the proceedings are resolved after this procedure in the courts. Criminal cases are substantially less than civil proceedings that are being resolved under this procedure. This is why it is a very important law that we need to adopt and make a very good reference to, in order to ensure that the proceedings before the courts under this law are regulated in the way they should be, and that they can be effective and also respect all the other principles that justice must respect. The aim of civil justice is to resolve a civil dispute; that is, to reach a decision on a disputed judicial relationship or on a disputed right. With the novel we are dealing with Members and Members of Parliament today, we are trying to adopt amendments that will help bring about the most correct and legal judicial decision on the one hand and the fastest and more effective judicial protection on the other. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure provides for a number of solutions that help to modernise the justice process, to better manage the procedure and to be well prepared and, last but not least, to improve the quality of decision-making. However, the reason for the adoption of the amendment to the Judicial Procedure Act is not only necessary for the acceleration of the judicial procedure, but also in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, by which certain provisions of this Act have been partially or fully repealed, or has been found to be inconsistent with the Constitution. Some decisions of the Constitutional Court therefore require an amendment or addition to the provisions of the current Law on Justice – lovingly appointed by lawyers to the PPP because they often speak in abbreviations – and this is one of the most important laws that we are changing today and today is a great day for justice when the CAP is changing. I hope we're all aware of that. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party are aware of the importance of creating a unified practice of the Supreme Court and of the quality of law through practice. In this regard, we welcome the lifting of the audit permit and thus the possibility of allowing for revisions in disputes that do not amount to EUR 2 000. An essential criterion for consideration will be such an important legal issue. We also welcome the solution that will help to ensure the judge's integrity and moral independence and his freedom of speech, while improving the quality and credibility of court decisions; this is the introduction of separate opinions by the Supreme Court. Separate opinions of judges are of course of paramount importance for the development of law. We also find the proposed innovations, such as the adoption of a programme of procedure and a mandatory preparatory proposal, which are solutions that have a greater impact on faster and better implementation of the evidence process. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the proposed solutions are welcome, and I will therefore, by my vote, confirm the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Justice Procedure. Let me also say that it is very important that an appointed judge, Dr Andrej Ekart, and other professional colleagues, have also participated in the drafting of this law, but I stress in particular that some of the fellow Members are able to mention assigned judges as some pests who sit there for a number of years and graze at the Ministry of Justice. Let the esteemed colleague Dobovšek look at what it means when a judge is appointed to the Ministry of Justice and how he can contribute qualitatively to the preparation of a quality bill on justice and how effective it is to assign a judge to work at the Ministry of Justice. I think this institute is being served by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u70	President, thank you so much for your word. I think it's up to us, now that we have the debate and the controversy, we can sit down and just get started. Otherwise, I see that one of these microphones is already being used for discussion and controversy with fellow Members of Parliament. In short, the amendments in question and the amendments to the Law on a fair procedure following the evaluation of the applicant are adopted in order to strengthen the authority of the judge and his responsibility for the conduct of the proceedings, which must be effective, quality and, above all, fair. To this end, the relevant amendments to the Judicial Procedure Act, which, for example, provides some positive solutions when it is possible to deliver separate opinions from the Supreme Court, public hearings at the Supreme Court and public declaration of decisions by the Supreme Court in accordance with the model or practice of the Constitutional Court. However, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party, in all these cases, it should be in the trial in all the Chambers. In short, the proposed changes go at least partially into a solution proposed by a group of voters and voters in the past to establish transparency and public accountability in the judiciary. Such a proposal, which had all these solutions and many others, was then very vehemently rejected by the minister and the coalition. Some are packed in the hall, but the fact is that these solutions and some others have been included. The recent actions of both the justice minister and the government as well as the justice fully show that there is indeed no interest and in some way is very little concern for those who are most responsible in the country at the moment, in order to give rise to real confidence in the public in the judiciary in order to establish accountability in the judiciary. Yesterday, for example, the President of the Supreme Court was elected, which in some ways represents continuity, the continuation of the current situation, the thinking at the very top of all the judges, and such a way should have been extinguished long ago. Indisputably, reforms in the field of justice are needed, such as those that will put justice in place in Slovenia, comparable to some democracies with long-standing practice. This means standards or for European-type standards, European starting points, European, ethical standards, European expertise, average European spending, the average number of judges, such as in Europe. This is essential what we need in Slovenia and what is the subject of many debates and needs and the desire of our citizens and citizens. However, we do not need, respectable, solutions which are unfortunately also in this bill in the field of justice, which abolish the Institute of Allowable Audit. This narrows individual access to justice before the Supreme Court. This limits judicial protection and access to the Supreme Court. In short, these proposed solutions limit access to the Supreme Court. The proposed solution in the light of the situation in the judiciary, in our view, further deepens the lack of confidence in the judiciary. First of all, in our opinion, other matters that are still necessary in the judiciary should be settled in the judiciary. As I have already said, the establishment and proposal of a solution that would raise confidence in the judiciary, particularly with regard to the establishment of a fair trial, a trial within a reasonable time frame, legal certainty and accountability in the judiciary or in the judiciary. The question of a number of solutions in this law has also been raised by the Law-Legal Service, which has also made a number of substantive comments to the law, but because we know how the coalition works; when we refer to the Law-Legal Service, when we do not like it, we ignore things. Thus, we will not support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we will certainly closely monitor the implementation of the Judicial Procedure Act, in particular in terms of ensuring fairness and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice President! Respected and respected! We have before us changes and additions to the Justice Procedure Act, which is the basic procedural rule. This is a thorough overhaul of the judicial procedure based on domestic and foreign practices. Preparations for this amendment have taken a long time. The Ministry has carried out a number of coordination and inquiries in courts, chambers, prosecutors and all other interested stakeholders, thus obtaining information on the areas that need to be amended and updated. Many comments were thus taken into account and the applicants also examined and included a comparative legal regime. What should a reform of the justice process bring us? Especially faster trials, of course taking into account the client's right to a fair trial. This would be achieved by a number of proposed amendments, such as the introduction of a mandatory preparatory order, the limitation of the number of pre-commissioned preparatory applications, the change in the manner in which shipments are served, the introduction of a management programme, the Supreme Court will be able to deliver advisory opinions from now on, the judges of this court will deliver separate opinions and may list them. In the Desus Group, we believe that it is very important or even a key change in the abolition of a permissible audit; that is, those audits that are linked to the value of the disputed case, while new revisions are also allowed in disputes that do not amount to Euro2,000. The proposal for a new law thus strengthens the role of the Supreme Court, which from now on will only take into account those matters for which it will assess that it contains important legal issues, irrespective of the value of the disputed case. This will burden the Supreme Court, so we can expect this to lead to quicker decisions and at the same time to a uniformity of case law. It has turned out that the uniform case law is the main culprit, the unanimity of the case-law, the main culprit for long-term and unpredictable proceedings. [[…]] The Supreme Court has many cases and it is already difficult to follow its jurisprudence, which is very bad for the predictability of legal proceedings. However, it is now expected that the highest court in the country will decide in substantially less disputes and that decisions will therefore be more qualitative and uniform than they have been before. We think it's very important. It is not only those issues and those disputes where the value of the subject is high, but those issues which are important for the development of law. The highest court in the country has to deal with the latter, and it will also be possible to say domestically, ordinary citizens with a case where the value of the case is not high and it is a matter of resolving an important legal issue. Thus far, only stronger parties have been able to choose access to the Supreme Court and thus have dominated individual interest, thereby putting public interest at the forefront of the law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are confident that the adoption of this proposal will modernise and significantly improve the justice process, so we will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure is extremely extensive, as it contains more than 500 articles and regulates the rules of procedure under which the Court deals, decides and decides on disputes from private and family relations and also on disputes arising out of property and other civil relations of both natural and legal persons. It should be noted in particular that the individual disputes referred to may be dealt with under a specific law which is within the jurisdiction of a specialised court or other body. The novelty that we are discussing today is extensive and represents one of the biggest systemic changes in this area. The main objective of the proposed amendment of the law is to strengthen the authority of the judge and his responsibility for the concentrated management procedure, which must be reflected in the final quality decision. It should be pointed out that there was also a public presentation at the time of the drafting of the legislative text and a number of long-term coordination was carried out. However, it should be pointed out here that an important part of the proposed law is the result of a survey in which the following issues were mainly raised: the return of cases to the first stage, the unanimity of the case, the late application of the role of the parties, the unnecessary or even pointless role of the party, the poor material, procedural management and the lack of and difficult delivery of judicial shipments. So already the answer to this question that the law actually provides a solution to all these warnings gives us somehow hope that this is an extremely important law which, of course, will make, we can say, a systemic change in this area. It should also be pointed out that the legislative text introduces an advisory opinion and a separate opinion of the Supreme Judges, who also seek to unify the case law. The view of the applicant is that the unanimity of the case law is one of the main obstacles to the rapid progress of the proceedings and also the predictability of legal relations, which is why this is precisely what the proposal for a law seeks to achieve, i.e. the unification of the case law. The resolution of the law also goes in the direction of restrictions on the preparation of applications, which constitute a package to be understood in accordance with the principle of customer due diligence in a fair trial. In doing so, we can say that the judge is expected to lead the proceedings economically and that the parties are expected to be careful and, above all, timely about their roles. The limitation of the preparation applications applies only to pre-commitment applications. There is also a mandatory pre-trial claim, which is a good preparation for the procedure itself, and we hope that the procedure will become more focused on the backlog of the management programme and also on the possibility of a remedy in the event of a judgment being carried out. In addition to many other amendments, some deadlines for complaints have been extended, which we hope will result in a better quality of complaints. For all these reasons, we will support the proposal for a new law in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The Law of Justice is undoubtedly one of the more important laws in the field of justice, with almost 80 per cent of all judicial proceedings under it, and the novel before us certainly brings a number of key changes. It is certainly important material and an area where things need to be improved, especially as regards the length of the procedures themselves. Slovenians like to justify themselves, it is a fact of some kind and this fact is also reflected in statistics belonging to the courts. As far as the duration of the proceedings is concerned, at least some of the problems are being reduced, especially given the decline in the number of convictions recorded before the European Court of Human Rights, we cannot say that the situation is optimal. In general, for example, if we look at the enforcement of claims under economic contracts, where court proceedings last for a little more than three years. This is worrying data, and these positive trends are, of course, also hampered by austerity measures, which have been and are also targeted at the judiciary. A major problem is also the unequal position of the parties according to which court they are dealt with. The differences between the duration of the procedure are worrisome. For example, if we look at the case at the District Court in Ljubljana, on average it takes some more than 10 months, and at the District Court in Slovenj Gradec, for example, less than 5 months. Information on the duration of proceedings before the courts is also of concern. These procedures last on average 14.2 months, with more than 50 per cent of the procedures taking more than one year. And this is a very sensitive case. The exploitation of workers, as well as the violation of labour law, is increasing and particular attention should be given to this area. This is also why we have tabled an amendment in the United Left, which, for working disputes, maintains the rules of the revision as before, because we are simply afraid that the situation in this area will deteriorate further. Trade unions also warn that this intervention can mean much more negative than positive effects in practice. We therefore expect the coalition to reconsider whether there is a possibility of working and protecting workers' rights in all known infringements and employers' acts of importance enough to keep these rules of the game the same as before. And this is just one of the many issues that remain open after the adoption of amendments on the parent's working body. If, on the one hand, we all agree that changes are needed in the legal process, we cannot agree that it insists on certain changes that are controversial. And the warnings of these disputes regarding the limitation of the number of preparatory applications, regarding the editorial duty of the parties and also regarding the Institute of Consultative Opinions of the Supreme Court remain unfortunately overheared. The various provisions in question were pointed out by the National Legislative and Legal Service, but also, in particular, the Bar, the State Defence, the Notary Chamber and the Supreme Court. So those who perform in these procedures, and most likely most closely, know which solutions are inappropriate and which will in practice cause problems or setbacks. For all of this, we are detained in the United Left until the proposal. We cannot get rid of the sense that the Ministry wants to shorten the proceedings, but at the expense of restricting the rights of the parties themselves in the proceedings. It is true that it is necessary to ensure consistent respect for the right to a trial within a reasonable time that no one can oppose, but, on the other hand, we cannot do so by violating the other rights that the parties have in the process and by means of solutions that could be called reckless. As all too many questions remain open and all too obvious, unaddressed draft law on amendments and additions to the Justice Procedure Act in the United Left will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 14 February. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-workers! I am sure that this government is, and I will now say in particular Mr Koprivnikar, the government that wants to apply modern electronic solutions. Finally, in the two-year Action Plan 2016-2017, the governments on page 33 of Chapter 7 entitled Effective IT, increasing the use of e-services and interoperability of information solutions are listed under this Chapter as a measure of reorganisation of state information technology and consolidation of human resources in the field of IT under which the SI-CeV system is built. This means the central heating site, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2016. We have dealt with this issue if I may cut down a little in the autumn of last year when we discussed the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act proposed by the Government in the context of the so-called Mini Tax Reform. Well, it was a mini, but reform didn't. But even then, the Minister of Finance or the Secretary of State said that the amendment that we had tabled and actually wanted to be registered in the Law on the Tax Procedure on e-Wording, and therefore the representative of the Ministry of Finance said that our amendment was worth considering. We're at the second marriage now. We are now in the new Law on Justice, and Article 14 here speaks of the fact that, I quote, “the application in electronic form is submitted by submitting itself to the Information System of the Court.” We are very exact and precise here, and we say in our amendment of New Slovenia, “The application in electronic form is submitted by sending it to the electronic court drawer.” It's so-called safe electronic drawers. Today, companies and even natural persons know them. We have technological solutions, and here we would like to be technologically advanced in this area, in the field of justice. There's a lot of talk about state information, and so on. It is a pity that Mr Koprivnik is not here today, and I am sure that he has supported the amendment, but I think Mr Klemenčič will also support it. So the amendment simplifies the application to the courts by introducing a secure electronic drawer. Look, it's not an email, it's not an email, it's a secure electronic drawer that the courts know, but you can look at it on the website or on the websites – now I don't have time to explain the technology – how these things work. It is, therefore, that investing in courts would be by means of a secure electronic surrender of courts, which is in line with the European Digital Agenda and Digital Slovenia 2020. So, New Slovenia follows the European Digital Agenda. Is that something wrong? It's not. New Slovenia follows this amendment to the Digital Slovenia 2020 strategy. Is that something wrong? Probably not, since the government has adopted this strategy Digital Slovenia. Therefore, the amendment solution would reduce the costs of e-application of applications and this equation with the physical deposit of applications, as it would significantly reduce the cost of meeting the specific technical requirements for electronic signature and application. This is simply a follow-up to the European Digital Agenda to follow the Digital Slovenia 2020 strategy through this amendment, and it is simply a matter of putting ourselves on the side of those who are investing in court cases in order to enable them to have modern technology that is safe and that is cheap. And then what's wrong with it? So, I really expect the unanimous support of this amendment of ours, and I thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister of Magic. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will briefly respond to this amendment, which the Government cannot support. There's nothing wrong with it if it was filed 10 years ago, say. Why? The Slovenian judiciary today has the best development of an electronic service system from all state systems and subsystems. The annual Supreme Court, or the annual Slovenian Court of Justice, electronically delivers more than 1.4 million shipments, saving only around EUR 1.8 million from mail. Electronic service for the judiciary strategically represents one of the key pillars of electronic commerce. Essentially, before any part of the state administration, Fursa or NJU or MP has developed this system with the help of European funds and works, it has been invested very much. But it's a closed system. Accepting such an amendment in the long run, I'm not saying it wouldn't be useful. In the long run, if the state had a law, such as that of Germany, which is a law on service and concerns all procedures in the country, which would then be regulated if I were to simplify very much, in a uniform way. We're a long way from that. If we do this today in the CAP, then we will have problems in the CAP and in other procedural laws that are adapted to the current system. With this, Slovenia certainly does not violate eIDAS, because it has a very similar system or system as Austria, which has the same closed system and has the same exception for eIDAS. It is very simple to say: your purpose is undeniably good. You know, we've also had an open conversation with you and we've been thinking about the proposals you've made. However, the implementation of such an amendment is simply not compatible with the existing information service system in the judiciary and this system works well, works effectively and would constitute disproportionate financial, information and human resources solutions in order to establish a whole new system, but I do not know what would happen in the meantime. In short, I think that we may have to open this debate once again if we are actually going to have a situation when we talk about the law on service, but right now I cannot support this amendment, because it entails significantly more risks than the benefits in the system concerning electronic commerce, it must be recognised that the judiciary is significantly longer than the rest of the work, we will say, the wider state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Nice greeting again in my name. Well, it is, of course, strictly, as I would say, a procedural law that has provisions where one sentence, if amended, can have consequences for the whole process and also for several fair, enforceable procedures and others to which this law applies, so it is important to be careful when introducing new innovative solutions. Allow me to say something in general about the law as a practice, even though I have said it on the Committee on Justice, of course, but still. And then I'm going to say something else about all the amendments that I'm not going to call back. A particularly important acquisition, although there has already been an opportunity for the judge to anticipate the progress of the proceedings in advance and to prepare a legal basis and direction, tells the parties how the procedure will proceed, I think this additional incentive, an additional obligation for the judge to make a management programme. What is essential is what is done at the beginning of the procedure, how the whole process is set out, what legal basis we choose, how we will decide at the beginning of the process, which is the whole process. But many times this did not happen because, respected colleagues, the standard the judges had, say, in the justice department, in the economic department of the legal department in the district court, was 14 judgments per month. In doing so, of course, it must be said that we do not have judgments without hearing. So the judge has to have a written hearing so that he can write judgments, and then he has to lead these hearings, and in the meantime, of course, he has to write 14 judgments. There are also possibilities for reduced procedures, low-value disputes and so on, but very extensive work is carried out by a judge in one month, and if more work, he must issue more judgments, write more judgments. I had this experience myself, not twice a week, but three times a week, because I wanted to be very good and effective, and then I was hunting my hands because physically I could hardly write all these judgments. Writing a judgment is not a cough. In civil matters, much more so because there is a need to explain, because different areas can also be taken into account and so on. It seems really important to me that this solution is introduced that if a process is to be set up in substance at the outset, then the possibility that the conduct of the procedure and its effectiveness, as well as the awareness of the parties, of what the judge intends to do in the context of substantive process management, is better and that the procedure will be faster and more effectively carried out. It's a pre-trial complaint. Well, we have it again if, as it is now conceived after the new one, I also believe it will contribute to an effective process. It also seems very important to me that, as is the case in criminal proceedings, the possibility of us being able to deliver our judgment orally earlier, but now there is an additional possibility that the judgment can be declared orally and if the party does not issue a complaint, then there is no need to issue a written explanation. That, I think, according to my colleagues in the penal department, has significantly accelerated procedures, reduced the duration of proceedings in criminal proceedings, because if you don't write these judgments, then you have time to write others. Although judges now have no standards, they have time standards, but that's a framework, 14 judgments a month. Try to write 14 serious court decisions, and I would really like to see how this works if you could; besides leading at least six, seven hearings a week for which to prepare. That's it. I do not wish to offend or demean anyone, but I say that this law regulates a demanding judicial procedure that must be regulated and conceived in such a way that, of course, the judge has a greater role and this role must have and must also be stressed at the very beginning of the proceedings in order to ensure that the whole proceedings are well prepared. But this solution also seems very useful to me that at the end of the explanation there is no need to issue, even though it already existed in small-value disputes, but here it extends to all procedures, and I think that this will be what will contribute. However, I would like to know how many procedures there will actually be where the party will not announce the complaint if there is no dispute of small value. Because we often have a complaint in judicial proceedings. Now I do not know how many complaints there are in relation to all matters, but it can make a significant contribution to the speed of proceedings. It is also essential for me to extend the possibility of appeal in a higher court, as the representative of the United Left and colleague Dobovšek said, that the procedure should end at one stage. Yeah, it's possible a lot. The higher courts, in my opinion, did little to serve these options, and then the case went in, I won't explain the details, and then the case went back to the first stage. This means waiting, including extending deadlines, time standards and all that. Then this means, necessarily, that the procedure is extended. This amendment is welcome because it will also reduce the judicial procedure in cases where this option is used, by encouraging higher courts and requiring them to have a hearing in several cases, if it is also necessary in a higher court, and to decide, to make a final decision, but not to dismiss the case and then to decide at the first stage. I believe that one thing — especially my love — is to supplement the law is that we now have legal protection against the judgment of a higher court that annuls the judgment of the Court of First Instance. Repeal, return to decision-making, but we did not have a legal sanction. Why? Because now the higher court will be careful whether it will be possible for the judgment to be overturned too quickly; but it will send them to the first stage to work there. I'm not saying that in all cases, but that's the kind of thing that's been going on. It will come to mind, since there was no remedy so far, you couldn't complain about the fact that if the judgment was overturned, you couldn't. Now there is a possibility that, to a limited extent, but nevertheless, the Supreme Court will decide on this and the higher courts will think, yes, because I do not want the Supreme Court to annul my judgment, or to decide otherwise than I do in this Supreme Court judgment. But maybe we'd try a little harder, and we'd change the decision, we'd decide on a matter of substance, a matter of substance. I think that this will also achieve a reduction in the return of cases to the first stage and a reduction in the extension of procedures. This thing seems very welcome to me, it belongs to other matters that are envisaged in the procedure for its effectiveness. As regards the amendment of New Slovenia, the Minister has already explained, and I also agree with it, this directive allows for an exception and these are closed systems. However, I also agree with New Slovenia that it is necessary to take a step forward and at least put things forward so that we can think about taking the directive into account for these systems as well, but in future amendments to the Law on the Righteous Procedure, because we now have to ensure the smooth work of the courts in this area. With regard to the amendment proposing that the revision should still be allowed and not only allowed. This is an eternal debate between lawyers and those who deal with justice, what is now the best solution: whether it is only a permissible or only a permissible review, what would best contribute to the uniformity of judicial practice. We have a problem with the uniformity of court practice. Yes, we do. In court, for example, I had the situation several times that the client brought judgment, you decided so, I don't know whether our senior court decided Mariborically, and they from Celje decided otherwise in the same case. Ljubljana may or may not; or one Senate may or may not. This promotes a lack of confidence in law, and a judge is in an awkward situation in such cases, because he does not know what is now because there is no established case law. The only thing on which it can decide is legal standards and consistent case law can justify changes in judicial practice, but this needs to be specifically justified. Therefore, given that the Supreme Court also agreed to this — yes, you will say that they will receive fewer cases and therefore agree. However, I believe that this step needs to be taken to reach a uniform case law in this way and that it also helps the courts to decide better and more effectively in the proceedings, and then indirectly helps the parties to know what they can count on in the process, what is essentially the rule in force. Believe me, for example, a senior court Senate has ruled in a number of cases – for example, in the case of a maintenance fund, a maintenance fund, I remember these matters well, you decided by the best faith, what you think is right, you decided, there were some judgments of a higher court in one direction, and then after a while – a tuf, a diametrically different decision. And one and the other decision had a legal argument to hold one or the other position. It seems to me that it is essential to ensure uniform case law, as uniform as possible, that we have a Supreme Court here as a lighthouse and that it is significantly easier to reach it, even if it is a new instrument – it is clear that we are not introducing any new instrument without resistance and if it is unknown, we are concerned about how it will be applied to it. But it seems to be a good thing to do, because before the proceedings are completed and we reach the Supreme Court on a regular basis – if they can come in at all, in view of the audit allowed and also the important solution allowed – that the Supreme Court may ask itself first what is right, what is the correct legal interpretation in a particular case. There are many impressions, as if someone from some of the moves decides in a particular case in one way or another, because we do not know what and who influences it, but in fact there are many, even on the basis of this different case law, the problem is to decide, because there is simply enough argument for one side and for the other. Not because now someone wants to make a decision for the benefit of not knowing who or what. And then the judge doesn't have a choice, he has to make a decision. If it is a uniform case law, it is easier for him, but if he has to create it himself, it is significantly harder. Significantly more qualified, competent for the creation of case-law, uniform case-law, are in the Supreme Court. That's how there's never gonna be any common ground here. But it seems to me that the position of the Supreme Court is on this side, that it will now only be an approved audit, somehow decisive – at least in my case it is and in the case of our parliamentary group. Even that extension of the audit or exemption for working disputes seems unnecessary to me, because I do not know why we would now exempt only this one group. Then we could also talk about other groups that could be justified for various reasons to be treated differently. This is how we will vote against that amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u84	Good day, Messengers and Messengers! Before I talk about our amendment to Article 14, I will also take a few trips to the general debate myself. All these changes. which I have also pointed out in the position of the Group of Members, among other things, that the thing that we certainly welcome is that a timetable will be prepared or, say, a timetable for dealing with these things, all these matters can contribute to a better outcome. Nevertheless, I would add something fundamental. All these detailed, important, minor changes cannot turn the Slovenian judiciary into a better one if the mentality of the judges themselves does not change significantly; even if judges and judges do not move in time. In this spirit, however, I would like to see a substantive step forward in addition to these technical steps. Now I'd like to go back to our 14th. To strangers these things are franticly complicated and the differences seem to be very small. The existing law states that it can be communicated with the court or that certain applications can be submitted in electronic form to the information system of the court or the court, and we are correcting this in order to make an electronic case for the court. The appearance or appearance of an extremely small difference and in practice a great difference. The main point of this amendment is that, in fact, this closed system of justice, because the judiciary has a system of its own, will also open up outside and allow the judiciary and their electronic business to develop and that virtually everyone who understands these things knows these things has some solutions in these areas. As I understand the Minister's explanations, as well as Ambassador Murgel's, you are all in principle, or in terms of content, inclined to this amendment, but to feel the opposition of the court itself. It feels like the court doesn't want to say goodbye to the current system that it has. Experts have warned us that this system, used by the Supreme Court to serve, is not certified with the European Commission and that only part of the communication exchange software used by the so-called AS4 protocol has gone through the testing phase, but it is not, of course, that part of the equipment used by the Court in this communication, or that it is a protocol that is not yet in use by the Supreme Court. I know that these things seem complicated to seem difficult, but the key message would be that, according to the information given to us by the experts, the system used by the Supreme Court is not certified by the European Commission, and this should be a worrying and problematic position, and also in this light should be acted upon and written down by law in such a way that improvements can take place in electronic service. As is understood by the majority, for the time being, it will listen to the wishes of the Supreme Court that no change will take place here. In a way, it is easy to understand the Supreme Court that it removes changes, because any change means new adaptation, means new learning, new problems. And of course, the easiest thing to do is to work with an existing system, but if this country, our Slovenia, wants to take a step forward and if we want to follow some, let's say, Baltic countries, which are at least two steps ahead of us in these matters, then I think that such an amendment would be absolutely necessary at least in this stage. That is why we have also proposed it once again, and it should also be accepted, in order to create a foundation with which the judiciary and e-heating alone can develop further. However, I hope that there will be some further reflection and that the amendment will still be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 14? Please sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, once again. Yes, I myself still have the hope that only this amendment of the New Slovenia Article 14, which amends Article 105.b, would give rise to further reflection and, however, to the adoption of this amendment. We have a typical case, we have a typical situation, which, of course, is not only Slovenian, it is probably European or global when technology is ahead of regulation. In all areas it is so, not only in the field of justice and I regret, I really regret that this is happening. I regret that the regulatory or legislative branch of government does not follow the development of technology, while we speak digital Slovenia, the Digital Agenda for Europe, the digitisation of the economy, the uberisation and so on and so on. I just don't get it. This 105.b article in this amended bill still has quite a few problems. See only the first sentence in which it says, “The role is written, in physical or electronic form.” Yeah, of course it's written. What's it like? No one's illustrating the role or writing the roles on the lines! Excuse me, I have this association now, given that today is the 150th anniversary of Strauss's most important waltz. But it's written, of course it's written. We correct this real sentence and write more comprehensiblely and write, “the application is submitted in writing or in electronic form”. And now this information system, once again supplemented by a proposal advocated by the coalition, "The application in electronic form is submitted by submitting itself to the information system of the judiciary." Do you think the information systems were created by the emergence of computers? There's been an information system since there's been a man! Now, if we are consistent, we should also have a little more detail about this provision here. That this system is closed – I just can't understand it or buy it. People who don't know these details, of course, probably imagine and argue that the system is closed; but, yes, the safe electronic drawer is also very closed and very safe. In fact, it replaces a classic mailbox, which we have somewhere at the beginning or at the entrance to the yard or on the side of the house, and we open it with a key. There is also a solution here, but it's electronic, which we open with an electronic key and so on and so on, that I'm not going into detail right now. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware of what digitalisation actually brings. We need to be aware that Uber is not just an application to order a taxi, which is synonymous with transport, that Uber is actually a new business model. And that the judiciary will also have to come to an aberration in the judicial system; what exactly this will mean, I don't know, I'm sure Mr Minister knows more, I'm sure. Last time, I was discussing the bank system. In 2020, we will no longer need such banks as we have today, so we need to imagine or imagine those who say that we will not sell the New Bank of Ljubljana. Yeah, we'd get something for her today, in three, four, five years, we won't need her anymore, and she'll be really old iron. So much now about this in this context of digitisation. However, I agree with the Minister who says, and I also commend several times, as far as e-Justice is concerned, all those who have opened the door to e-business in the judicial system should be commended. But why not save this little thing, as we suggest in New Slovenia with the amendment to Article 14? I am pleased that the Minister has said that there is nothing wrong with our amendment. We're just looking a little further. And perhaps if this amendment were to be adopted, someone would have to step up, and if there were any problems, they should be eliminated. That's what this is about. It is a very simple solution, which we really firmly believe that we have technological solutions today and that they also need to be implemented in modern legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that these changes to the law are really very important. In fact, it is a matter of reform of the CAP, so I think that today we will be able to be so ready in the National Assembly to support this law. It is important that we adopt this law, including in order for our judiciary to finally have the opportunity to modernise its business, to introduce all these new institutions that are envisaged in the law. It is also important that this amendment strengthens the authority of the individual judge, strengthens the authority of the judiciary as a whole, and is also important because it strengthens the position of all courts, both first and highest, and the Supreme Court. And I hope that there will no longer be so much dissatisfaction or so much negative debate in the National Assembly at the expense of our judicial system, because I am confident that business will improve significantly. I would also like to say something about the amendment tabled in Article 14 by the New Slovenia Group. First of all, I wanted to address Mr Tonin, who in the position of his parliamentary group to adopt this law or vote for New Slovenia, committed himself to whether we would accept or support the amendment of New Slovenia to Article 14. In the meantime, the Minister explained that, of course, this proposal from New Slovenia is good, but it is not compatible with the e-Judge electronic system, which today allows certain applications to be made in court, namely land-book proposals, executive, registration, insolvency proposals. And as I understood the debate by Mr Horvat's distinguished colleague, members or Members of the New Slovenia understand that the ministry will listen to their proposal, but that it is not possible to realize for now. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate on Article 14? Not yet. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for allowing me to be persistent. I would like to say something else, because usually when it comes to any proposals for solutions, then we always wonder what the consequences are for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The financial implications of this amendment to the state budget are not financial. They're gone. The courts should have secure electronic drawers that each of them already has. This is a well-known solution in the courts. It would be followed by role-playing under the information system, so after this amendment, the role of the court would be to operate within the information system, as they already have today. Now, the key point I should have said in the introduction is that this amendment increases the accessibility of courts by e-mail, by e-mail, by e-mail, without unnecessary additional requirements. This is an additional, I think, fairly understandable argument why it is worth supporting this amendment of New Slovenia to Article 14. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Good. Can we close the debate? So I conclude the debate on Article 14. I am putting to the debate Article 103 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. It is usually so that when we first discuss an amendment, we will then round the debate a little wider. Of course, I have listened to the NSI Group's previous arguments to their amendment, and in fact, the person is asking himself, there is a solution here that would take some step forward in our judicial system, something new, added value, and then we get answers that we don't, because we don't have the resources, we don't have that, we don't have that. That is to say, when we want to do something concrete, that things in the Slovenian judiciary may somehow rise in the field, we get the answer that we can't. I think that's the worst way to say something that can't be said. Let's not even try, but we can't. You are well aware that individual cases, including transitional decisions, and some of the laws that apply individual decisions sometimes set years and years to come when I do not already know which government and responsibility someone else will be completely responsible. It's just desire or whether we care about it or not. In the introduction, I think the Minister has said correctly and has also made an important point that this is a fundamental procedural regulation that is changing. The 130 articles are being amended. We are now talking about changes to the basic procedural regulation and, on the other hand, we are finding that there are solutions that are actually bad for citizens and citizens. We have already talked about the so-called audit, I have initially said in the position of the Group of Members and I repeat here again. It is not true what was said in the position of the Group of Members, I think that Desusa, Mrs Porotat, when she said, is not allowed or audit is allowed, etc. No, the audit is terminated in the form it was. And that's the problem. The fact is that the proposed regulation – and therefore this amendment of ours to delete Article 103 – actually means that access is being narrowed, individual access to justice before the Supreme Court. That's essential. And that's the problem. Why are we narrowing down some rights? Of course, now you're going to say, so there will be procedures See, we have, and we've already said that many times, in 2013, 27. 3. Upon evaluation by the European Commission, inside matters that have not yet been implemented. [[…]] It's a lot of stuff. Such movements have not yet been proposed by the Minister, who would take us into what we are saying, reducing costs per judge, fewer judges and so on. Now we have some solutions here, and we have also made clear what we agree with, absolutely, but we have also said shortcomings. And as it is, this coalition doesn't listen to any of the amendments when it comes to some really important laws. Reducing rights – I do not think that our justice system is at such a point that we can afford any further reduction of rights. We're already in trouble. If she were ironic, in the preceding article, when spoke to her colleague Jasna Murgel, who undoubtedly has experience in the courtrooms that it is difficult to write a court decision, she would reply: it is really difficult to write them. On the one hand, it's hard to write them, if you want to be fair, and on the other hand, if you have to write judgments in an improper way, in an illicit place, in an improper way, and shape it in some judgment, you have to be a damn no longer a judge, but a wizard. And we take time to do things like this with us, and there's no problem, and we write nonsense. Well, let's see! On the other hand, when the government signed or the coalition signed a coalition treaty – listen to what you wrote: "The main mission of this government is therefore to repeat the return of people's trust in the country and its core pillars of state-run action." Yeah, how? What confidence is this if we even narrow down rights for citizens? The following is followed: “The development of human rights and equal opportunities is also an important aspect.” Then we have some criteria that justice is supposed to fulfill. One of these is the greater fight against economic and banking crime. Let's say what we've done there, how many we've got left behind. Nothing! Practically nothing. On the other hand, when we talk about the Anget Logar commission, two courts at different locations make different decisions. Where is legal practice when it comes to important documents? And then, of course, I don't know how long it took this commission to get some key documents. These are the problems of our justice, the key ones! And now I think that this so-called 103rd article, which is now talking about the abolition of a permissible audit, is inconvenient and inappropriate for this time. Finally, what the minister explained about the reason for this withdrawal did not outweigh what this arrangement would result in — less accessibility. We cannot afford less accessibility in this Slovenia. I don't think we could afford it if the times were any different. But we need to rewind the judicial system, sort things out, reduce the number of judges, look specifically at why we're proposing a judge. To settle the responsibility we've already discussed. I welcome the part where at least a fraction of what judges do — of course only in one instance — can be seen. But we should spread it to everyone. As you can see for us, officials, what we are doing in the National Assembly; every vote can be seen how we decide. It is important to ensure that those working in the judicial system are also clearly visible. Look, if you're doing what's right, you're behind your decision. Anyone can get a mistake. Okay, you just say it. We're not talking about that. We are just saying that we have a justice system and with these solutions that are today — some — nothing is going in the way of openness. We will limit even more, we will close the system even more, and I think that these solutions are not in the direction of what you promised the citizens and citizens in the coalition contract, but they are even less in the direction of what the justice ministry has put under priority. See what the priority of the coalition contract is. First of all, it speaks of a greater involvement of citizens and citizens in amending legislation. I don't know how many times it's been heard by the 2015 Committee. If you are not politically fit, this does not mean that there are no substantively correct, good suggestions, or at least suggestions to be discussed, you may find common solutions, but not only in the first place vehemently say that these are nonsense, then in another process after six months, you will pull some of these out and agree. And when someone warns you that things aren't good – again with your head through the wall! I hope and hope once again that this is not just about the fact that the Justice Minister has some resistance to the Slovenian Democratic Party and that everything we say will somehow find reasons not to do so, at least not to think about it. I don't think that's funny. That's a fact. You know, even yesterday, when a decision for the President of the Supreme Court was opposed, last but not least, the vote showed 47 votes – I would have thought of that, given the coalition you have. 47 votes – that's soreness. Well, we've warned you what the problem is that you can do something wrong today because things aren't transparent. However, we are not moving forward with this key transparency. We don't want to hear it. I think that this solution, to end the audit and to clarify what was meant to be the reason for this decision, does not imply that citizens' access to the so-called individual access is now narrow and limited. That's bad, and that's a bad solution, so we're proposing a deletion. I'll check in if I need to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs Teja Ljubič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u94	President, thank you very much for the floor. So today we are considering a proposal for a new Law on the Righteous Procedure, which undoubtedly brings quite some important news. One of the most important things is that an audit is to be lifted, which means that the proposed regulation will only allow for an audit. So the proposed amendment removes, if I may say so, this value criterion, which now provides that the revision is now allowed in disputes where the value of the dispute exceeds EUR 40,000, when we are talking about civil matters, or EUR 200,000, if we are talking about economic disputes. In all disputes, other disputes in which the value of the contested case is lower than those amounts, and must not be less than EUR 2 000, the audit shall be possible only if the Supreme Court allows it. The legal theory, as well as the case law, essentially stems from two objectives of the audit. The first objective is to ensure a proper and legal decision in a particular dispute. However, the second objective is to ensure the uniform application of the laws or to ensure that this uniform case law is applied. In the first instance, it is a matter of protecting the interests of the parties in particular, while in the second case it is a matter of protecting the public interest. In view of this, I believe that, in essence, the lower-stage courts are those who are called upon to protect the interests of the parties. However, it must be the Supreme Court that represents or protects this public interest. The Constitutional Court has also made clear in one of its decisions that it is essentially the primary task of the Supreme Court to protect public interest; that is, to deal with precedents whose essence is not in the sentence, but in the very explanation, that is, the reasons why the Supreme Court has taken a decision, as it did. Of course, if we want the Supreme Court to carry out this role, which in some way belongs to it – that is to say, to clarify it, to unify it, to care for its development – we must also allow it the right conditions. In order for the Supreme Court to act this way, it must first be unloaded in order to allow the Supreme Courts to have time for in-depth and comprehensive analysis of individual cases. From this point of view, we cannot expect on the one hand, in fact allow a wide and open space and access to the Supreme Court and, on the other hand, expect some quality decisions from the Supreme Court and that these will be made as soon as possible, because this is not the case. Let me just give an illustration of the 2015 Annual Court Performance and Performance Report – I took the 2015 data because the data for 2016 are not yet available – it turns out that there were 3 000 469 cases before the Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court had 5 000 41 cases in 2015. This is not such a small number, especially if we draw a line here, that the Supreme Court deals with these difficult cases. Let me point out once again: the Supreme Court really has to deal with these most difficult cases, that is, cases which, of course, bring some added value to the legal system itself, and all other cases must be dealt with by lower courts. If the Supreme Court is allowed to perform this role, this will undoubtedly be easier for lower courts. Since, in fact, when laws are ambiguous, contradictory or incomplete legal relationship or situation, a judge may rely on judicial practice, if it exists, and this makes it significantly easier for him to decide in a particular case. Following the proposed amendment, access to the Supreme Court is not restricted, but access to the Supreme Court is essentially guaranteed to everyone under the same conditions. Since the audit is now also possible in disputes that do not reach the value of the disputed item of EUR 2 000, the fact is that in fact an important legal issue is not always linked to the level of the disputed case. Therefore, I believe that the proposed regulation gives the Supreme Court the opportunity to ensure this greater consistency of judicial practice, which will certainly contribute to the quality of the functioning of the judiciary and also to greater legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much. In short, all I can do now is join what Vehementary Ambassador Ljubič has said, so that I will not have to repeat many things, but I would like to briefly respond to the question if you cancel the audit. As it is said, the audit shall not be terminated, the audit allowed shall be discontinued. The reasons were carefully weighed. Many discussions were held in the professional public, among the various stakeholders, with academic expertise, including abroad. I must say that here we have come to, we will say, a great consensus: in the profession, in the academy and in the stakeholders in the judiciary, that this is the right step, that is a step in the right direction. I cannot agree, and I think it is somewhat populism to say that people are taking on a right, which in a way or rather very directly has been said by an SDS Member who had a word. You know, today, if you put yourself on your head — in your own words — you have a conflict that doesn't exceed two thousand euros, and that can be important for a lot of people, it can be some, we'll say, maintenance, minor compensation, unpaid fees, and so on, you'll never get to the Supreme Court, because that's impossible after the current arrangement. Under two thousand euros, case law can't go to the Supreme Court at all, except through a request for the protection of legality, if brought by the State Prosecutor's Office, which is exceptional and so on, rarely. There you have all that the MP who spoke before said: 40,000 euros and so on. Sometimes things come to the Supreme Court that aren't legally difficult, but they have a strong interest, I don't mean personal, because we're talking about civil matters, because I don't know 100,000 euros and so on or so on or millions. What we are introducing with this change is that, following the example of best practices from abroad, we provide access to the Supreme Court for all equally. If I'm a bit populist, we have a single woman who's having a problem because someone doesn't pay her thousands of euros under a contract or 500 euros, and a multinational who's in a multi-ethnic conflict for a million dollars. If this is an important legal issue, they now have the same access to the Supreme Court. However, the Supreme Court will, of course, assume great responsibility because it will receive fewer cases, but those who will have to be dealt with in a qualitative manner. Finally, there is only one short statistics that can be significant in this debate – Italy. In Italy, the Supreme Court, because, if I simplify it a little bit, has a similar system as we do today, issues 30,000 civilian judicatures a year. Thirty thousand civilian judicatas a year! Do you know how many have been issued by the German Supreme Court? In Germany, where we have over 80 million people – 3,000. Less than our Supreme Court has. Do you have any idea how many of them are in Swedish? A hundred a year! However, these are the decisions that are important for judicial practice and sometimes concern, we will say, the smallest working man, but sometimes the big corporations. And that's what we wanted to achieve. However, as far as I am concerned, I will not be able to comment later on the issue of audit – the issue of labour disputes. We are aware of this and have communicated with the trade unions that there are legal disputes about matters that have very far-reaching consequences for an individual, such as failure to work or something like that, but this also applies to a number of other disputes, to people who are in disputes or with respect to copyright contracts, or to any compensation, or to interpersonal family disputes, as it does not matter, but they have no access to it now. This problem will be resolved through the Collective Actions Act, which is already being prepared by the Ministry, which has already had public debates, and we believe that the National Assembly will come shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss this? I can see that. Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I still insist that such a solution, as set out in Article 103, is not good and is not useful. If we're going to say that someone is swamped with work, now we're going to release him, that it's an organ that's only for so-called big things, then we can banalize things to such a level as to say that there should be no more appeal, no more. And let's just leave it at that, and we'll be quick. They're just going to charge you first, and then we're going, and then we're done, and you're not going to have any more rights and options, and there's not going to be any backlogs. Just tell me where we live or where we'll live. Even now that we have many options, of course we know what is going on. Our system, I don't think it's such a good solution. And here it goes, and whatever we're turning now, to narrow down access to justice and legal remedies. However, since the Minister has also opened Article 125, he has also given some answers, but see, once again. This is also true of the so-called social labour disputes that are a real problem in our country or among people. And what people face and what's going on, I think there really needs to be an extra thought here and maybe an effort, Minister, to find some way to think about it and maybe take it out while there are no other solutions. Because you know, I think we should keep the audits allowed here. Because what's going on and what they have, because you probably know, too, you hear these things, they're a big problem, and I think we're doing a lot of damage here. That's a lot of damage. There are also different choices for the same or similar things. Problems are opening up, there are always some new things that appear here and that are not worthy of any social or legal state. On the other hand, they are very hard to prove, and we all know how these procedures work. So go ahead, Minister, at least in this 125th article, until there are some better solutions, but think about it. I mean, there's a lot to do with, I don't know, transition or whatever. You're the one who said where some things are supposed to be resolved now, but it's not. This moment will only die at this stage, and once it is, but you know, it can be anything else or too late for a lot of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u99	The Minister of Justice is responsible and Mr Igor Zorčič is behind him. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, we're not shutting anything down. Not even in the case of labour disputes. And you, I believe you know that. We are only saying that when the Supreme Court receives an audit, whether it is a five-euro dispute, a labour dispute or a multi-million-dollar dispute, it must be determined whether the law is already sufficiently settled in a particular case so that the decision of the higher court can be final. If it is not, and I agree with you, we have a problem with the uniformity of judicial practice, even in this area, then the Supreme Court will decide and decide faster than it decides now that there are thousands and thousands of cases. Some are quite simple and there is much confirmation, including in the Supreme Court, of the decisions of the higher courts, with people sometimes given undue hope and sent from Pontius to Pilate, and let us try to go to the Supreme Court. Now you will know, you will postpone the audit, you will get a very quick answer if the Supreme Court decides that the audit is not allowed, because it is not a problem of uniform judicial practice, and the case will be closed; not at the first stage, it is a second stage and finally at the third stage. We've given this a lot of thought, believe it or not, and we believe we're going in the right direction. Not with our heads through the wall, we're going in the direction most of Europe has gone. Like I said. And in this way, they have simplified the case law. Just the last, I didn't reply to this before, I don't want to be controversial, but still: there was no law on a fair procedure that would have so many provisions that would increase the transparency of the functioning of the judiciary, such as this amendment to the law. From separate opinions, public trials, public pronouncements of judgments in the Supreme Court, I am not talking about court order, painting and so on. So a little bit, we're going to say, I'm not going to say sick, skunk, that would be a little too childish, but mostly it's not just true if you're saying that this law closes down the judiciary even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u101	Replica Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u102	Minister Klemenčič, I have remembered your last name, the fact is that if you would listen to me first and if you were correct – but I am coming from the types of SDS I understand – I would also have heard that I commended the part when there are certain changes. I also said that such changes were proposed slightly back by the electorate and the electorate, but then you were vehemently rejecting the matter. Today, in this bill you are summarizing a number of these solutions. Of course, they are not everything and, of course, those who are in there, I support because I think they bring additional benefits, they bring even greater transparency and, above all, that citizens and citizens will start to believe again in our justice system, in which they do not now believe. But I told you, I think things are closing. And this is so-called authorized audit. So, behind this, you said this, of course it is in some way – I will not say that you are wrong, but I also said this in the debate earlier if you listened to me. [[…]] It seems to me that the basis for why you're introducing this doesn't outweigh what you're taking with it. I just think that at this point the Slovenian judicial system is not at such a point that it is worth taking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u103	Mr. Igor Zorčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u104	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Mr. Secretary, the team, colleagues and colleagues! This is a question that also raises some concerns for me. If I express myself in today's judicial jargon, I could say that I may have a separate negative opinion on this. It's allowed, it's allowed to be audited, we can treat it as a relic of the past. I understand all these objectives pursued by the Ministry in its proposal, but I do believe that the solution offered by the Ministry provides some picture of what our judicial policy on the settlement of civil disputes should be in the future. I have one thought about this. We have previously heard an explanation as to whether or not something is being withdrawn – I agree with you, Mr Minister, that this revision does not end. However, one special right is lifted for those who still have a disputed share of more than 40 000 euros that they have received so far, let's say, a Bianca card, in order to submit an audit, and after that they will no longer have these options; in short, they will have to ask the Supreme Court, so to speak, and it will be allowed or not to do so after its decision. I want to say, or I want to say, that by resolving this issue, we are addressing one topic that we should also be able to devote a little bit more attention to under this law, and that is whether we should deal with all disputes equally and whether we should introduce some kind of judicial level playing field, which I think we are also working to the extent of this proposal, or whether there are disputes, depending on the size of the amount, which is different. Maybe in this part I don't agree with you to compare singles on the one hand and on the other side of the corporation. Let's compare two single women, one with the amount she wants to sue, worth, say, 2 000 500 euros, and the other with 100,000 euros, she doesn't have any other income - maybe it's a flat. These two are comparable, and the question being asked is whether our justice system will give priority to our civil procedure, or whether it will treat both of them equally. Perhaps the one who is demanding more money because he may be solving his first housing problem is 100,000 euros more important than those 2 000 500. Now I'm guessing that, but these are hypothetical possibilities. In some forums where we have also discussed the regulation of the fair procedure, I have proposed that – let this be for everyone who listens to this meeting today – that the fair procedure should be regulated in a way that makes certain disputes of priority depending on their value. I know the examples of companies that have, say, annual revenues of 500 000 euros, I'm talking about a dispute, an unpaid deal, worth 150 000 euros. This is a dispute that such a company can bury. On the other hand, we have companies that have, say, 100 million revenue per year, and they have the same value of the dispute. And now we're going to treat it the same way. And that's what we're doing now. I think it would make sense for an undertaking to demonstrate to the court that these 150 000 euros are very important to it in terms of its scope of operations and that it would have a priority in a fair dispute. If anyone thinks this arrangement makes sense, then we can go back to the review and ask ourselves whether we are putting everything in line or whether some of the disputes in this society are more important and some less important. Of course, this is a very, very controversial question, because everyone will say, yes, but now one who has 50,000 euros or a million euros will be in a different position than one that requires only 2,000 euros. But, like I said, someone can only have those million euros and nothing else. And if he loses these millions of euros, he will lose everything and can be significantly worse than the one that only costs 2 000 500 euros. In this part, it seems to me that this question opens up or leaves up the concerns that I have mentioned. Last but not least, some of this has been pointed out by the profession, and I am not so pleased with this explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u105	Colleagues and colleagues, anyone else would like to discuss Article 103 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 112 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 125 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I interrupt this agenda item, which we will be deciding on today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda 11. We're moving on to 10. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law restricting the use of tobacco and related products. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to a representative of the Government, who is not yet in the Chamber. If she's not there, we'll go to the Health Committee's opinion as a parent worker. I'm sorry, the Minister is here, so we're going to give the floor to Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc's Minister of Health. Here you go, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u106	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a bill that has high support for the public and the profession. With letters of support, he was supported by doctors, nurses, and former ministers of health. Slovenia has also sent a letter of support, in particular for the introduction of a single packaging, to the World Health Organization. The proposal was the subject of thorough coordination, and we have aligned ourselves with both the Ministry of Finance and the economy. He received unanimous support from the State Council and the Health Committee. I can say that in Slovenia we understand the burden and the danger to the sustainability of the health system and also to economic development is tobacco. Tobacco is still the most important cause of death in Slovenia. I reiterate that as a result of the consequences of smoking in Slovenia, 10 people die every day and we lose as much as 5% of gross domestic product, or 1.8 billion euros. The seriousness of the problem is recognized around the world, and countries in the World Health Organization have already adopted a Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in 2005 containing a comprehensive set of proven effective measures. With Slovenia, it has already been ratified by 180 countries and is one of the most widely accepted conventions in the history of the United Nations. The measures of the Convention and the new European Tobacco Directive are also the basis for a new regulation of this area in Slovenia. We want to protect the current and, above all, future generations from the devastating health, social, environmental and economic consequences of tobacco use. Slovenia joins in this law to countries seeking a future tobacco-free society in which smokers will have a share of less than 5%. Many European countries have already set themselves this goal. Our experience and the experience of other countries show that lasting results can only be achieved through a comprehensive approach. Therefore, the proposal puts into our legal order such a new tobacco directive, which requires large-scale text health warnings, a ban on the sale of tobacco products with characteristic aroma and a whole other comprehensive set of measures. On the basis of the Framework Convention, we introduce further proven effective measures. To prevent smoking and reduce the attractiveness of products in children and young people, we are introducing a complete ban on advertising, exhibiting and promoting tobacco and related products and a single packaging. We are introducing a sale permit that will be withdrawn to those who advertise and sell tobacco to minors. Following the example of Spain and Croatia, we prohibit the display of these products and smoking in the context of television content and public performances intended for minors. Smoking, which has killed more people in the history of mankind than both world wars, is still shown publicly to minors as something completely normal and socially acceptable. Adoption of the law is a key part of a comprehensive approach that will reduce the damage caused by smoking and, last but not least, increase the welfare and quality of life of each individual. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also provided additional means to raise awareness of the harmfulness of smoking and abandonment programmes. These preventive activities will be more credible and even more effective by adopting the law. I therefore call on Members to support the law and thus vote for the healthy and independent present and future generations of Slovenes and Slovenians. I also propose that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the proposal for a law restricting the use of tobacco and related products be held at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u107	The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon, everyone! The Health Committee shall meet at its 20th session. 2. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on the restriction of the consumption of tobacco and related products submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur. Amendments were tabled within the deadline, namely the United Left Group, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, the SDS Group of Members and the SMC, Desus and SD coalition groups. The introductory explanation was presented by the State Secretary, Ms Nina Pirnat, on behalf of the applicant. She explained the basic objective and the proposed measures introduced by the proposal for a law. The bill also transposes Directive 2014/40-EU into our legislation and introduces innovations in the field of tobacco use and tobacco products. The Secretary of State also stressed that the proposal has broad professional support and support for civil society organisations. The representative of the World Health Organisation, Mr Gauden Galea, also presented his views and support for the bill. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and made comments. In the context of general comments, the question of the so-called single packaging was raised mainly in terms of infringement of industrial property rights in connection with the restriction of free trade between Member States. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the applicant should re-examine the claims and evidence relating to the single packaging and assess whether, on the basis of the proportionality test, the introduction of the single packaging is constitutionally admissible and acceptable. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also drew attention to enforcement clauses in the draft law which give the Minister relatively many general powers to be able to lay down more detailed conditions. Specific comments to each article are duly taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and the other amendments tabled are, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, subject to the opinion of the legislator. The opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia was presented by Mag. Peter Požun pointed out that the State Council supports the bill. The measures envisaged should also help improve human health and the sustainability of the health system. The Council of State took note of the views of representatives and representatives of the profession and civil society, who all expressed their support for the bill. In the debate, the majority of the members and members of the committee expressed support for the bill. They agreed that health is the highest value and that the purpose of the law is clear, that appropriate measures should be taken to reduce the use of tobacco-related products and to sensitise young people in particular on the harmfulness of smoking. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups, but did not adopt the amendments of the SD Group of Members, the United Left and Mr Jernej Vrtovac. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u109	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you and a nice greeting to everyone! The consequences of smoking and other uses of tobacco are known. We all know how harmful it is for an individual, a smoker, and a nonsmoker. We know, but it's still acceptable for us to smoke. And if smoking is acceptable to us as individuals, we are all too aware of how harmful smoking is for society, the country, and the end of the day for health care. Every year, on average, 10 people in Slovenia die prematurely because of the consequences of smoking. The European Commission estimates that, due to the consequences of smoking in Slovenia, up to 5% of gross domestic product will be lost. A large part of these costs, which could be prevented, are covered by a health treasury. It is the treatment of cancer patients, it is the treatment of cardiovascular patients and it is also a cover for the patient’s lag. Of course, we can ask ourselves here why, then, if the use of tobacco products is so harmful, why are these products even allowed, why tobacco and tobacco-related products are simply not banned at national and global level. Finally, all studies show that it is practically one of the most harmful products of our age, but it is legal. Of course, it's about money in the end. If we just look at our case, Slovenia, if we're talking only about the state budget, it's about money that the country collects through excise legislation, and it's just over 400 million euros a year. In our parliamentary group as well as in the Alliance, we believe that the proposed law is a step in the right direction. Analyses show that we have a growing number of juvenile smokers, although the trend in most Western countries is negative. Analysis also shows that the number of smokers is, unfortunately, not shrinking. We are convinced that everything must be done to prevent young people from accessing tobacco products. Measures such as the prohibition of the use of these products in closed public spaces, the prohibition of advertising and the age limit of 18 years for purchase, by introducing a single packaging, where, in addition to visual health warnings, the colour of packaging, the shape and size of the elements that may appear on the packaging, all of these measures, in particular, reduce the attractiveness and thus the attractiveness of children and young people, who also often prove this, seek to demonstrate certain social status and maturity. At least that's what they think. But what we want to warn you about is prevention. The amount of money allocated by the State to the programme for the prevention of smoking among young people is very limited. Only law and measures such as banning advertising or single packaging will not suffice. It's about soft methods that we can't write into the law and give them very little attention and resources as a society. We expect the Government to follow these soft methods in countries that are much more successful in this area than we are: Germany, Ireland, United Kingdom. Smoking must become unacceptable and unattractive in society for our young people. Today, between 15 and 20 years of age, they smoke as much as 25 percent. Unfortunately. If we want to reverse the negative trend in the use of tobacco products, we need to address the problem in its entirety. And young people are key to this. As I have already said, we will support the bill in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u111	The position will be presented by Mr Branko Zorman on behalf of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u112	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues, Colleagues! Smoking and related harmful habits pose a high risk to health. The problem we are facing today is that the consequences of smoking are reflected in broader social segments, particularly in the area of health. Today, the use of tobacco products has become widely used and, most problematicly, drugs are allowed in our country as well as in the European and global space. Today, we know that every consumption of tobacco significantly increases the likelihood of different types of cancer. About 90 percent of lung cancer cases are directly due to smoking. The consequences are also evident in many other smoking - related diseases, indicating that the life expectancy of smokers between 8 and 12 years is shorter than expected. In addition, we are aware of studies showing that already very small quantities are harmful, which is also a risk for second-hand smokers; that is, for people who are unwittingly exposed to tobacco smoke. And in all these facts, we face a reality that shows that 28% of men and 22% of women smoke in Slovenia or otherwise, every fourth Slovenian, aged between 15 and 64, smokes. This data shows that a great deal of burden is being created for an individual, for an economy and for a health system, reflecting the need to put in place proper control of this area and for young generations to ensure a healthier future. We are at a very important crossroads when the global policy environment has also taken into account the dimension of this problem. The international interest in restricting the use of tobacco products was shown only at a time when society felt the effects not only on human health but mainly on public finances. Sad, but more than obvious fact. Today, it is estimated that excise revenue on tobacco products represents only one fifth of all costs directly linked and related to the elimination of the consequences of tobacco use. Such an image no longer leaves any tolerance for drugs that is now freely available on the market for every adult citizen. A number of important measures by reducing the prevalence and consequences of tobacco use are already included in the European Directive on the approximation of the laws and regulations of the Member States relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products, which we are transferring to our legal order by means of the proposal for a law restricting the use of tobacco and related products. The proposal thus contains a number of positive measures in the fight against tobacco, as set out in the Directive: a large-scale text health warnings, a ban on tobacco products with characteristic aromas and products containing additives, stricter reporting obligations on components in tobacco products, comprehensive treatment of electronic cigarettes, new tobacco products and herbal products for smoking, and more stringent measures to prevent counterfeiting and illicit trade in tobacco products. At the same time, EU policy is also open to Member States to introduce additional measures that can effectively help reduce the social damage caused by tobacco use. Some additional measures are therefore also introduced to reduce accessibility, protect against exposure to tobacco smoke and introduce a single packaging for tobacco products. The latter, in the context of the consideration of the proposal at the meeting of the Health Committee, raised a lot of attention for both the public and the parliamentary groups, with different opinions. We have considered the arguments for and against such a measure in the Modern Centre Party Group, and we can be sure that packaging is an important part of tobacco marketing and that it has become a means of promoting tobacco products, particularly among children, teenagers and young people. So those target groups that the tobacco industry recognizes as potential buyers in the future. Above all, we recognize the measure as effective, since in the practice of other countries that have already introduced the single packaging, it has already shown positive effects. We are also aware that our tobacco society has been living for generations, and we are certainly not creating an illusion that it can be changed overnight. Today, however, we hope to dream that one day our society will become a society without tobacco. And today we have this opportunity to help each of us by our own decision, of course, because today we are talking not only about the future of tobacco policy, but about the lives that we may be able to solve with appropriate measures. That is why, of course, we will support the proposal. The interests of capital in such an obvious impact on the general picture of society’s health simply cannot prevail. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we strive to pursue our decisions with the long-term objective of becoming a society without tobacco. Therefore, health will continue to remain the priority of our action in determining preventive policies in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u113	Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone in the hall! We are aware of the seriousness of the problem of smoking around the world, and that is why countries with the World Health Organisation adopted the Framework Convention for Tobacco Control in 2015. This Convention has already been ratified by 180 countries. Therefore, countries are taking the proposed measures in accordance with the Convention, and there is no way to ignore the fact that they are also increasingly faced with the heavy pressures of the tobacco industry. Slovenia has stated in the Resolution on the National Health Plan until 2025 that in Slovenia we will reduce the consumption of tobacco products by 30 per cent by 2025. Moreover, the Ministry believes that this bill brings us closer to countries that are looking forward to a non-smoking society with a smoker ratio of less than 5% in the future. We are therefore transferring the measures provided for in the European Directive to our legal order, and Slovenia has added its additional, more stringent measures to this Directive: a complete ban on advertising, the introduction of a licence for the sale of tobacco and related products, a special duty on the sale of cigarettes and tobacco, a single packaging for cigarettes and tobacco, the equalisation of electronic cigarettes with tobacco products and stricter control. Despite the good intentions and the measures outlined in the law to somehow reduce smoking, it can happen the other way around. The ministry did not consider how to address the causes of smoking and how to reduce the black market. It is for this reason that it is still necessary and useful to examine and take into account the warnings from the profession that this single package measure may lead to an increase in the black market. While the Ministry has called for 90,000 euros for two-year co-financing of smoking reduction programmes among young people, the money has been distributed among three non-governmental organisations implementing preventive programmes, and no one really knows whether these programmes are working. At the time of the presentation of the law, the Minister also promised that 4 million euros will be available in the budget in the future to address the health consequences of smoking in Slovenia every year. Of course, NGOs are also promising some of this money. However, the fact is that the evaluation of the programmes should be carried out before this amount of available resources from the budget is increased and distributed – of course assuming an increase in the quality of these programmes. The data show that the proportion of smokers between the ages of 15 and 60 has increased again, since every fourth Slovenian smokes. Henceforth, we can conclude that these programmes do not have the desired effect. The reason why more and more Slovenians are smoking, what their habits are, why they are so scrupulously clinging to cigarettes is why we have no idea, since, apart from the information on the prevalence of smoking and the sale of tobacco products, we have no more important research on how to address the causes of smoking. I fear that the new tobacco law will by no means bring anything new, just an increase in excise duties and the black market. Like any disease, we should focus on the reasons why smokers start smoking and treat these causes. The fact is, there is no law that there will be no effective control, there will be not enough penalties until we clear our smokers in our heads that we are only harming ourselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u115	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go, Mrs. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The proposal for a law restricting the use of tobacco and related products is one of the few legislative proposals that is widely supported both by the profession and by the public and, last but not least, by politics. Nevertheless, there has been quite a heated debate on some of the innovations that the proposal for a law brings, particularly with regard to the introduction of a single package. At the outset, I must point out that in the Desus Group we support both the proposal for a law and the introduction of a single package, we only hope that there are sufficient security elements in the provisions of the law, which, in the case of possible lawsuits by tobacco giants, will protect the interests of our country and prevent millions of damages, because in countries where they have already faced this problem, the extra guardian has constituted a special law governing the area of intellectual property rights. In our parliamentary group, we are saddened that all the thinking towards further protection of our country against multinational lawsuits has been immediately marked as a reflection of the taxpayers of the tobacco industry. Such accusations are based on our assessment of the simple intimidation of others. In addition, I must say that representatives of various stakeholders, including the tobacco industry, have also visited our Group of Members. Of course, we have not hidden this and have also reported our contacts to the Commission to prevent corruption as lobbyist contacts. We have listened to the arguments of both parties, which, according to our assessment, is the basis for deciding on the support of a law, and finally decided as we thought it was right. In the Desus Group, we are particularly pleased to see the prohibition of smoking in all vehicles in the presence of minors included in the text of the law on our initiative. Such a ban regulates two areas at the same time – the protection of minors from tobacco smoke from the environment and the improvement of transport safety. With regard to the protection of the health and well-being of children and adolescents, the restriction on exposure to tobacco smoke in means of transport is justified and justified and similar to other child protection measures. In our Group of Members, however, we regret the failure of the Minister in the provisions of the law to retain the so-called tobacco centre, which would focus primarily on prevention and health care. The fact is that prevention is one that can prevent young people from smoking if they start early enough in childhood, in the family and through the whole process of education and education. I'm asking you if any of you remember any preventive actions in the area of smoking reduction. I'm sure you don't. In our Group of Members, we believe that all forces must be guided by preventive action and awareness of the harmful effects of smoking and preventive action on all areas of human life. Another factor that can do much to make less people go into tobacco is, of course, the price. Here, however, we encounter the country’s abnormal transfer, for as soon as we begin talking about the rise in tobacco prices, we run into a barrier called excise duty. In fact, at higher prices, sales would also fall in both domestic and foreign markets, resulting in lower excise earnings, which is a source of budgeting, which obviously scares us more than the diseases caused by smoking. Finally, I would like to express our Group's hope that in this composition we may also be able to shudder at other areas that are immediately extremely harmful to our health, the priority consumption of young and old alcoholic beverages, the addition of sugar to food and drink, the presence of transmasks in food and so on. Finally, let me stress once again that Members and Members of the Desus Group support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u117	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The use of tobacco is harmful to everyone. That's an indisputable fact. However, it is particularly important to prevent use in children and adolescents. In accordance with the requirements of the directive, we welcome the solution in the proposed law on the use of tobacco and related products. We want the long-term impact of these solutions, which are enshrined in the law, to be truly positive to reflect on the lower consumption of tobacco and the lower use of health resources. In addition to all of this, we would like more resources for prevention and education, as well as regular monitoring of the impact of the implementation of the legislation and a faster response to deviations. We wonder how long the ministry and its services, the authorities, the institutes have had statistics on the ten dead per day. How long has it been known that solutions before the decade of the adopted law no longer have the desired effects and that the trend is reversed? How long? We feel sorry for each of the ten lives we lose every day because of tobacco. But hand to heart, probably because they're lost in long waiting lines. Among the quarter of millions of those in waiting lines, we still do not have effective solutions that would shorten these waiting times, even though we are constantly alerting and waiting for them all. According to practice, we can conclude that these warnings are probably lost in waiting lines as well. The content of the law has never been disputed for us and will receive our united support, but I cannot help but answer the floods that have occurred in public. Social Democrats follow the policy of open doors. Whenever we receive an application for a meeting and a meeting by citizens, individuals, associations, unions and chambers of interest, we respond. We accept everyone and have a conversation whether we agree with the arguments or not. We decide on behalf of citizens and citizens, so it is also right to listen to them as to what they have to say. It is our responsibility to weigh arguments and make decisions in our conscience. This is called a democratic process, which is inevitable in every healthy democracy. We also listened to this law; we listened to those who supported the law, including those who expressed doubts. If we shrug, there were the most concerns about the regulation of a single package in this law. We've heard all the arguments, we've been looking for information, and we've read some more of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And then we weighed. Anyway, we'll support the marriage. Such a decision has never been disputed. Our support for the single packaging measure is also not questionable. We didn't have the support of the law with anyone and we didn't condition anything, we just wanted extra security guards. We have chosen a different path to achieve the same goal, so we have tabled an amendment to regulate the provisions of a single package with a special law. Unfortunately, he did not receive adequate support from his mother’s working body. That's all we wanted. The answer, however, was by attacking people funded by the Ministry of Health, and it was those people funded by the state budget that even threatened us. There have been discredits of everyone and anyone who had only the slightest hope of questioning, not questioning, doubting your solution and proposing a different path to the same goal. It's all right. The Social Democrats have a clear conscience. Obviously, you didn't want us to understand on purpose how he could be mean and against someone who supports a law that supports a single package, but in a special law. Why? The undeniable fact is that in our country we are facing a lack of legislation, which is why we are also losing in international courts, which has cost our taxpayers millions. Recall just one thing — the sugar factory in Ormož. We are social democrats for the law and for the single packaging, and, unlike others, we are also in favour of rejecting the interest of Slovenia. All we wanted and wanted was a good marriage. One which cannot be challenged, especially because the Single Packaging Directive does not impose or even a single procedure to introduce this into national law, is simply this. Of course, responsibility is now at the back of the Ministry of Health. The applicant shall ensure that the study has strong arguments that no one will be able to object and that the action does not concern us. We believe that, but we also hope that you know what you're doing. I really want us to be wrong and you're right, right? We really want to be a positive example in preventing the severe consequences of tobacco use and not a negative example of how it is lost in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u119	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, chairman. If the Social Democrats had a true conscience, they would not have used their 5 minutes to explain to the world of Slovenia how they no longer work for the interests of tobacco multinationals. Otherwise, it is far from the highest health risk of poverty, followed by inequality. Demonstration of tobacco, if you, how many people he killed, just don't belong anywhere. People don't die early because they come home from work and then light that cigarette, but because they spent 12 hours in the office in one day, they get paid back at the minimum level, because they work without social security, regular jobs, for example. This is what we will support in the United Left. We believe that the measures envisaged will help reduce smoking, particularly among young people. This is evidenced by experience from abroad, as well as by the efforts of the tobacco industry to stop the adoption of this law or to reverse its content in the most effective part. Like abroad, the tobacco industry has used all of our resources to influence the adoption of this law. In order to protect his profits, he reached out to three basic admissions. The first are baseless, misleading and false allegations of the effectiveness of the proposed measures. Others are spending financial resources relating to legal disputes and lobbying, and the third is the intimidation and threat of countries with lawsuits and long judicial proceedings. The attempt to adopt today's legislation is therefore also an attempt to resist the influence of Slovenian officials on tobacco multinationals; namely: Philip Morris, British American Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and the last mail consignor to the National Assembly Imperial Tobacco. That the threats of all these giants are empty is confirmed by a number of cases. The single packaging as the most effective measure has already been introduced by many countries – Australia, Great Britain, France, Ireland, Hungary, Norway and in 14 other countries – at various stages of its introduction. All the legal challenges posed by tobacco multinationals to governments have been addressed to countries at national, regional and international level. It is also true that we must not remove our heads from the empty threats of the tobacco industry. With a social arrangement in which corporate dictators of multinationals can sue democratic states, something is seriously wrong. It is unacceptable that non-democratic, profit-oriented international organisations have the right to sue democratic countries for policies adopted by civil society in their own public interest. With this law today, we're going to show the middle at least to the multinationals, and then we're going to have to gather courage tomorrow to show it to someone else. To conclude, the causes of public health risks are not exhausted in smoking. Clearly, tobacco poses a risk to public health, no one denies it, but public health is also greatly affected by social inequality and poverty. Inequality kills more people than tobacco. And in poverty, we can find reasons for more premature deaths than for smoking. Working in miserable conditions for poor pay under severe stress that people come to work sick, the inaccessibility of a quality and effective public health system, this causes significantly more health problems and chronic diseases than tobacco can at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u121	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u122	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products, which is currently under consideration, is a step in the right direction. Finally, it was amended and supplemented in 2007 by the introduction of a ban on smoking in closed public and workplaces. This reduced the exposure of the inhabitants to tobacco smoke in these areas and also in the domestic environment. Since 2007, Slovenian tobacco legislation has not changed, but in accordance with the provisions of the law the taxation of tobacco products has changed. Tobacco products are a high tax because 6 million people die annually because of tobacco, in Slovenia on day 10, which means 3 000 600 a year. One in four died before the age of 60, many between the ages of 30 and 44. Two inhabitants of Slovenia, 30 to 44 years of age, die every week because of smoking. The deaths and diseases caused by smoking are convincing and unnecessary. The average Slovenian smoker smokes about 18 cigarettes a day, which means he can spend almost a thousand euros per year on cigarettes. As in Slovenia, as abroad, the vast majority of smokers started smoking as teenagers or young adults. The use of tobacco is therefore linked to the high costs for society and individuals. The law provides stricter regulation regarding tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship, tobacco and related products. A single pack for cigarettes is being introduced. The bill follows the European Directive to a certain extent, goes beyond and is even stricter. Christian Democrats will support the law, because every step that represents less exposure to smoking and tobacco products is worthy of support. A worrying fact is that tobacco and tobacco products are widely available to adolescents in the immediate vicinity of schools. Christian Democrats also support the responsibility of each individual to take care of his or her own health. A risky way of life, to which smoking certainly belongs, is not without consequences for an individual and society. We are pleased that the proposal for a law supports both the broad professional public and the citizens. However, we would encourage the Government to take a step towards restricting accessibility in another area that is causing some kind of dependence. In New Slovenia, as has already been said, we will support the proposal for a law on the restriction of tobacco products.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u123	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2017. Since the amendments of the ZL Group to Articles 29 and 42 are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 29 and 42 and the amendment of the ZL Group of Ambassadors. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm asking you, who wants to discuss this? Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. This article prohibits the display of tobacco, tobacco products and so on in films, pantyhose, TV continuations This ban is a little funny because exceptions do not cover some other forms that could, for example, document and even point out the risk of smoking or the impact of a tobacco lobby. [[…]] For example, certain formats of documentary shows, which are not nuances, fall in here, reports, information shows, broadcasts from the field, music videos and transmissions, recordings of various artistic pictures and so on. In the United Left, we propose to remedy this inadequacy in the law by deleting paragraph 7. It is true that the amendment was adopted at the committee meeting – I think it has been tabled, I do not know now, a coalition or the largest coalition party – which speaks of the fact that this prohibition applies to content intended for under 18 years. O.K. This may be a step in the right direction, but in the United Left we still believe that this is a very vague determination, so we have tried or listened once again to the plenary session of the National Assembly with our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u125	Anybody else want to discuss this point? Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I just want to clarify further that this amendment by the United Left does not have to be adopted because it is already a joint amendment that was drafted at the Committee's own meeting and adopted by the Committee, and it has also been designed by means of or instructions from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and corrects what the Member points out; in such a way as to add the text “in the context of television content and in the context of public performances intended for persons under 18 years of age”. This is sufficient because the public interest of the protection of minors as a particularly vulnerable group is more clearly expressed, while the so-called right to freedom of expression is also preserved in all artistic content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the Committee's meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Tourism Development Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ljudmilo Novak. Colleagues, colleagues! Since I find we're not ready for this agenda item, I'm adjourning the session in five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u128	Colleagues, colleagues! We continue with the 11th item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Promoting the Development of Tourism. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ljudmilo Novak. With regard to this bill, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mark Ferruga, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u129	Hello, everyone! The secretary of state is second, but O.K., that's fine, too. The Committee on the Economy is at its 23rd session. 2. Considered the above-mentioned proposal of the law as the parent labour body. Representatives and representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was provided with the following material, namely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. As far as the amendment is concerned, the draft law has been tabled by the NSI Group on Article 1. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out, in view of the timing of the adoption of the legal solution in this area, that it is a matter for the legislator, whether the legislation changes immediately or waits for the court to decide on the measures taken. With regard to the service’s comment on clarifying, as appropriate, that arrangements of a non-profit nature intended for the final round are in place, the representative of the service explained that the amendment tabled follows the comments of the service. The secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport presented an opinion on the proposed law. They pointed out that, although the bill was in line with the government's proposed solutions on this subject, the Government unfortunately does not support the law, as it is preparing a new bill that will regulate the whole area. The discussion explained by the proposer and some members of the committee that the proposal was based on initiatives from the ground and stressed the need to regulate this issue as soon as possible. It has been pointed out that the solutions to the law in question fall within the context of a system-wide government law in preparation and should therefore be supported. On the other hand, other members and members of the Committee felt that it would be necessary to wait for solutions to the system government law, which would include some other necessary changes in this area. The opinion was also expressed that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration and the Committee further discussed and decided, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the proposal for a decision was not appropriate for further consideration. In the discussion before the vote on the draft decision, the proposers and some members of the Committee called for the withdrawal of the motion for a decision because the solutions to the law in question fall within the context of a system-wide government law. It was also feared that the adoption of a government law to seek compromise with stakeholders would be delayed and that the negative consequences that would result in the adoption of government law in the interim period. On the other hand, other members and members of the Committee felt that the government law would be timely and adopted and that matters would be handled in due time. There will be no negative consequences in this area as a result of the non-adoption of the legislation under consideration. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, pursuant to Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u130	In order to present my position on the proposal of the working body, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law of Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u131	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues and colleagues! In recent months, both the Slovenian professional and the general public have reflected cases of sanctioning certain schools for conducting school excursions. Although it sounds incredible, schools have been inspected for taking their students or students on professional excursions. What has been quite common and useful school practice until recently has become banned and sanctioned. This has also raised doubts about the competence of our teachers to organise such activities. There is also a shadow of doubt in schools whether these are still trustworthy institutions that are qualified to carry out educational activities on the ground as well. Excursions are a way of education that gives young people the opportunity not only to get to know the world around them from the classroom but also to get to know the content they learn from school or from textbooks. It is this which is spreading to the youth of the horizon in a very special way. Instead of commending the teachers for their zeal, diligence, and savings, a cold shower awaited them when schools were declared inspections. In order to conduct excursions, the inspection services issued reminders to some schools as if they were doing work in black because they were supposed to be offering a tourist arrangement. Civil society has requested a solution to this situation, so in New Slovenia we have listened to these problems and tabled a proposal for a new law that would exclude the activities of educational institutions from the definition of tourist arrangements. In the process of addressing our proposal for a law, we have listened to different opinions; the opinion of the Council of State; the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service; and the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. We have listened to various arguments, considered them and, on the basis of this, proposed an amendment, which also solves the problem identified for all other organisations that carry out such travels on a non-profit basis, occasionally and for the groups that have been concluded. In addition to schools, we are particularly improving the position of organisations such as scouts, campers, firefighters and various companies that enrich society with activities within Slovenian civil society. The spring comes when external school activities become even more frequent, while school management and teachers will be concerned about where students can be taken in their own organisation and where they are not. With the proposal of this law, we have a fine opportunity to prevent this uncertainty and the re- sanctioning of schools as well as other entities in a similar situation. Regrettably, without a single substantive argument, the government coalition rejected this proposal on the home labour body with the excuse that it was a political exaggeration that the coalition could not accept all opposition proposals, that we had taken too much account of the ministry, that the government was preparing a system law. Before the government system law is passed, it is likely that a new school year will begin and that the threat of sanctions will remain and hang on to those who are working hard in our society to organise educational and non-profit trips and travel for children and young people. Such a scenario can be prevented today by honourable Members and Members from supporting the proposal of the law of Christian Democrats, and educational institutions will be able to expect a system-wide government law in peace and ease.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u132	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Vojka Šergan, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism. Your Honor! In the past, educational institutions have been dealt with as a result of a misdemeanour of working in black because they provided a service which was defined as a tourist arrangement in accordance with the Tourism Promotion Act and were therefore treated as a tourist arrangement at the 23rd regular meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth. In the second conclusion, we wrote: "The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth proposes to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to amend the sectoral legislation accordingly in order to remove any doubts about the need for a distinction between professional excursion and tourist arrangements." In the past month, the MGRT concluded its public consideration of the proposal for a law promoting the development of tourism, which also addresses, inter alia, the need for a distinction between a professional excursion and a tourist arrangement. This provided a solution to the complications involved in organising school trips, only because of the lack of clarity in the definition of the tourist arrangement in the law. The law also addresses other problems, such as the deregulation of tourist guide and tourist companion professions, the raising of tourist fees, the conditions for the organisation and sale of tourist packages and related travel arrangements and a variety of other solutions, all in the desire for a comprehensive regulation of the area. Today, to our great surprise, we are considering the proposal of the New Slovenia Group, which proposes to amend a single article for which the New Slovenia Group estimates that it is completely simple and everyone understands it. In the SMC, of course, we understand this article very much and at the same time recognize that the New Slovenia proposal is only a copy or plagiarism of a solution from the government bill prepared by the Ministry of Economy. We believe in the SMC that there is no need for opposition parliamentary groups to copy and sell individual articles of government proposals as their own solutions. We understand this policy of New Slovenia as an indirect recognition of the work of the Government. The New Slovenia Group therefore proposes to amend only one article, which is even a duplicate of the government proposal, but at the same time they are not interested in the system solution and leave it to the Government to adopt it. It is clear that in the SMC we cannot support partial proposals because they offer nothing new, but we always support comprehensive systemic and deliberate solutions. That is why we have high expectations about the government proposal, which has involved a number of experts and is coordinating the wider interests. All of this with the aim of achieving even better results and with the experience of past decisions that say that we are doing the right thing in the Modern Centre Party, which this time even recognises part of the opposition through the proposal of the prescribed article in the government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u134	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a law tabled by the drafter, a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ludmilo Novak. This is a complement to the Act on Promoting the Development of Tourism. So it's a law that we've all found on the committee that we understand the content of. The initial proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Promotion of the Development of Tourism concerned only educational and educational institutions. Further, through the discussions held in the State Council, the competent commissions of the State Council, including certain government officials, have come up with an amendment or a new, better solution, which practically sums up the solution proposed by the Government itself in the new law. In the text of the draft law, which is under public scrutiny and will be tabled by the Government in the coming days, in addition to the educational and educational institutions, all those carrying out non-profit activities are included. The tourist arrangements shall not be treated as services that are occasionally performed on a non-profit basis and only for closed groups. It is therefore a closed group that does not advertise, it is a fire, cultural, tourist society, pension society and so on. The law was introduced because some schools had already received warnings and alerted inspection services that they were guilty and that they were also following fines because they needed a tourist guide to organize the trip in accordance with the law, the proposed law and the supplementary amendment which was tabled on the home committee solved the problem. Despite the fact that the solution is the same as anticipated by the Government in its proposal, the opinion of the Government was negative. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is that it is a matter of Members and Members, says the legislator, of whether it is immediately going to change the law or whether it may be expected that further verification will show the correctness or irregularity of the decision of those authorities which have decided on the offence. They point out that it would be appropriate to supplement the Article in order to make it perfectly clear that it is non-profit, that arrangements are not of a profitable nature and are intended for the closed-circuit and not for third parties on the market. The amendment tabled on the Committee took these comments into account. Similarly, when we look at the government law in preparation, it has a similar starting point — a word more or less, it does not matter. It is now up to the Members to decide whether you are going into this decision now. The government representative will probably be able to tell us how much longer he's counting on to come with a comprehensive or new law. Then you will have an easier decision whether to make a change now and break this situation or wait and put the educational institutions in a position to be sanctioned. These are the words of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Secretary of State explained that the draft law, together with the amendments, is in line with the proposed solutions to this issue, which were included in the new proposal for the Promotion of the Development of Tourism at the Ministry. However, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia still considers that the proposed amendment to the law is not appropriate and does not support it. The main reason is that they are preparing a new Act on Promoting the Development of Tourism, which will fully regulate this area. Another, perhaps even more important reason, is that in January 2017 a public debate was concluded and the Ministry of Economic Development is now reviewing and collecting quite a number of comments on various topics. Therefore, it is still the Government's proposal not to support these novels that have been proposed. The following was quite a noisy debate, which was not served by coalition Members with any argument as to why the proposal for a law would be inappropriate for further consideration. Moreover, due to individual statements, there is a high likelihood that an agreement with the inspection services will not be supervised by the educational institutions below. This, however, means unequal treatment from the point of view of legislation and may pose a major additional problem. Therefore, it would only make sense for a change of law to be confirmed and not awaited by a government solution, thus avoiding the problems of societies and also inspection services. Last but not least, it also resolves violations of the law, since inspection services are obliged to respect the law. And if it's an agreement not to review some entities, it's a violation of the law. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are voting against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u136	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar. Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that you gave a five-minute break that Nova Slovenije could have even appeared in the Chamber and started this debate because, given your well-intentionedness, if they were not well-intentioned, they could not have started at all, I suggest, because for the same reason, the Government has also been delayed if the Government wishes to express its position that the Government is also now giving its position if we have already taken such a practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u138	Three factors were not present before the beginning of this agenda item: the proposer, the chairman of the committee and the representatives of the Government. When two out of three appeared, we started with the first, but unfortunately parliamentary practice does not allow the Government to express its opinion afterwards. Therefore, unfortunately, I must say that we continue to present our views as we wish. We continue with the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia and Mr Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Hello again! The bill that we have in the parliamentary benches is, we must admit, a welcome attempt and a quick response to the media resounding topic. In the Desus Group, we estimate that the applicants have taken part in the case, tourism is not just an organisation of school excursions, a retirement trip or a one-day social gathering. Tourism offers a wider picture and requires a broader, more in-depth view and not just a superficial consideration of a challenging and important area. This is a major reason why Members and Members of the Desus Group will reject the bill at this stage. Problems in practice are a good indicator of how some things are not entirely logical or, rather, self-sustaining. School excursions are not a tourist arrangement, but part of the educational program. Schooling should also be in line with this. All is well and well here, but unfortunately the ambiguity of the legal provision opens up an additional room of manoeuvre, which is in practice being used very well. Of course, the key word in this is money, and the purpose remains the same: to get profits in your own pocket as quickly as possible, regardless of the consequences that will be felt by the students or their parents who pay for such trips. And at this point, the complexity of the matter is increasing, who can organize excursions, under what conditions and, above all, at what cost. Specific and unequivocal answers should be offered to these questions. In the Desus Group, we advocate a greater focus on non-profit activities when it comes to cases of professional excursions. The government proposal for a law that has just passed public hearing will set matters straight in the direction of a clearer and broader definition of the tourism package. First, it is necessary to determine what is involved in this concept in order to be able to talk about possible exceptions, as an identical situation can also happen in the case of the organisation of trips for other closed groups, such as pension societies. It is right to regulate matters in a thorough and systematic manner, so in the Desus Group we will attach to the decision of the home working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u140	Mr Matjaz Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u141	Vice President, thank you very much. Secretary of State! The proposed amendment to the Tourism Promotion Act is, of course, a result of a resounding decision of the market inspectorate, which issued a reminder to the primary school because it did not organise this school trip through the intervention of the tourist agency. That's one reason. The second reason, of course, is politics. This made it understandable to the public the indignation and calls for such activities, which are part of the educational process and do not serve to generate profits, to be clearly excluded from the so-called tourist arrangements. We were also surprised by the inspector's decision in the Social Democrats. It seemed to us that this was either a disputed decision or an unnecessary decision. If the activity has been clearly defined as part of the learning activities and did not constitute profits for the organiser, we consider it by no means viable or unfair to the providers of tourism services. It is also not irrelevant to point out that the Inspectorate acted on the basis of applications, which it is also obliged to do, and that the schools, except with a reminder, did not penalise further. The government of this issue is of course concerned, tourism as one of the strategic sectors needs additional incentive measures. It is also necessary to relieve this industry of unnecessary bureaucratic barriers, but not by reducing standards for the protection of the rights of workers employed in tourism, and not by reducing the standards for the protection of consumer and tourist rights. Many provisions of the legislation in force serve primarily to ensure that certain services can only be provided by those operators who meet the minimum conditions, competence and safety of consumers, for example in the form of unsafe passenger insurance or higher-power insurance. Such legislation should therefore be amended with caution and, of course, in an integrated manner. Since last year, the government has been preparing its proposal for amendments at the aforementioned school and supplementing the umbrella Tourism Promotion Act. The proposal covers a broader area, and it is logical for many people and businesses to want proposals and comments in the public debate. If we are to come to a high-quality and functioning law of urgency in its preparation, as many experiences have shown in the adoption of other legislation, legislation is certainly not the best way. For this reason, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the law that is now on the table. We believe that it is more reasonable to regulate this area as an integral and possible exception to the exercise of tourism engagements in the event of non-profitability and, while protecting the rights of workers and consumers, to regulate in a comprehensive manner, along with other incentive measures for growth and development of Slovenian tourism, which we have a full mouthful of all those involved in politics and the economy. However, as we are aware of the importance of the regulation of this area not only for schools but also for societies and other activities where travel and excursions certainly do not mean profitable activities and unfair competition, we call on the Government and the Secretariat Ministry in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to prepare their draft law as soon as possible and to forward it to the National Assembly, despite the large number of comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u142	Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u143	Have a word with me, chairman. Nice hello to you all! In the United Left, we supported the draft law on the Committee on the Economy. Why? Because it solves an acute problem that we have known for quite some time; in other words, school professional excursions are not tourist activities. Pedagogical workers are asking us to solve this problem. The solution is simple, only one article of the law needs to be rewritten. Minister of Education Maja Makovec Brenčič promised last October that the school space would relieve these legislative restrictions on the promotion of tourism. When a proposal from the opposition was tabled, the government and its coalition MPs simply said it was inappropriate. No arguments, just now with a classic supplement: we will prepare a system solution. How many of these promises of systemic solutions have we heard in this mandate? About the problems that we could easily and should solve immediately, but unfortunately we still remain because we are waiting — what already? System solutions! And in this case, it's not some sort of banal or insignificant problem. School professional excursions and field work are an important part of the educational process. The law requires teachers to organize other forms of instruction, such as professional excursions, camps, schools in nature, when teaching in the classroom. It is very clear that public interest must prevail in the implementation of these measures. Schools or professional teachers must be the ones who plan and implement the contents of excursions, as this is primarily a teaching process. For tourist agencies, of course, it is an interest in profit. In the long term, this means that commercial motives will prevail and start to influence the content of excursions, as well as their price and, of course, their accessibility. Social inequality is very evident in excursions and schools in nature. How many households in Slovenia can afford a child's excursion to Rome or Berlin, for example, even if there is no assistance from school funds? This is an inequality of children, although we have a ministry in this country, which also has “and equal opportunities” in its name. Today, the education system is increasingly reinforcing differences in society, although its primary purpose is precisely reversed; the basic purpose of the education system is to reduce differences and facilitate social mobility. Therefore, when it comes to an integral part of the pedagogical process, excursions should be fully financed from public funds. In the United Left we will vote against the fact that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, the solution is simple, but this does not mean that it is not systemic. On the committee we could still improve it and thus systematically solve the pressing problem because the legislative body is the National Assembly and not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is often forgotten. But apparently this solution is too simple for this coalition and the government of Mira Cerar to see. That is why we call on Minister Makovec Brenčič and Minister of Restivalska to prepare a solution as soon as possible – which means weeks, not months or years or even years. However, if the government and the coalition are unable even to work minimally in the public interest, it is better that they resign or that we do not have them at all. Any professional excursion that seeks new knowledge, new knowledge, must include exclusively actual and urgent costs and not a cent more. Andragoski excursions of farmers, firefighters, agricultural women's assets, mushroom societies, sports associations, pension societies and pensioners and could also be listed. Why? Because knowledge is and will be crucial. I myself hope to claim the most crucial even for happy Slovenia 2050. Since I have some time left, I must say that after two-thirds of our term in the United Left, we are very concerned about this logic: we are going to do something systemic, but now we do not need to solve one. Do you know if you somehow agree to systematically rebuild your house or apartment, someone will call you now on your cell phone, and they will say, listen, the water leaves you in the bathroom – will you wait until this system solution begins? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u144	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u145	The law we have tabled is a typical example of how politics should react or at least how the opposition should react to some problems that arise in society. You have said many things — and indeed they are true — that there have been cases when an inspection alerted individual schools to organize their excursions and that they are therefore at fault. This could have been done because we have legislation that requires that on trips or excursions that last more than 24 hours, tourist guides should also be taken on such excursions. There was a committee, nothing happened, and then we drafted a law that stipulated that this was not the case for the organisation of school excursions. We went to the State Council because the Council of Ministers warned us that this provision may have a disadvantage in that it applies only to educational institutions, but not to all other societies and organizations that organize trips and excursions in a similar sense. And since we are a reasonable party, we have heard these comments, at the same time we have also told what the Government is doing in this area, and we have prepared a proposal from the amendment, which states that it is not necessary to have a tourist guide for trips that are longer than 24 hours if it is a closed society if it is a single event and if it is a non-profit activity. According to the local authorities, the inspector would no longer be able to punish schools, fire companies, tourist associations, or the assets of rural women if they organized trips that would be longer than 24 hours. What matters to me is very important, on our proposal for a law, and also on the amendment, the Legal and Legal Service did not have any comments. Our salvation had the support of the State Council. Then we come to the Committee of the National Assembly, where it has evolved – those who were present, you can attach to it – an extremely interesting, I will say, tragic debate. The coalition MPs have told me that we copied or duplicated, doubled, if you want, the government's solution or that they will oppose our solution because we are proposing the same solution as the Government proposes. Understand who can! I'm afraid I don't understand. Any other argument would have been understood, but that someone would have made it clear to you that they would object to the law because you proposed the same thing as the government, which is difficult for a person to understand. Today some objections to this law have been somewhat sophisticated and have said that the law is not systematic. Of course, it is not systemic, nor are we in this House to draw up system laws – this is the government's duty – but we are in this House to try to solve some cases that are acute. And in this particular case, it has turned out that a small change in the article would solve many problems, and in particular prevent the punishment of schools, fire companies and other organisations. What's the point now? If this Parliament had adopted our law, we would have resolved this problem immediately, which still does not prevent or prevent the Government from preparing its system law later in the autumn. Therefore, you probably understand that the New Slovenia Group will vote against the fact that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. The law seems to us to be quite appropriate for further consideration and, above all, the law would address threats to possible penalties and the examination of inspections for all companies and organisations that would organise trips that are longer than 24 hours. I hope the coalition can still make this effort.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u146	Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u147	Honourable Presidents, representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues, all of them a very nice greeting! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism, because we have seen that damage is being done to educational institutions as well as to societies. It is therefore necessary to amend the law so that the market inspection does not have the legal basis for imposing sanctions. Let's just think about why we should pay for services we don't need. Such services must now be paid by educational institutions under existing legislation. Why is that necessary? I think we could all ask each other together, and regardless of who tabled the amendment of the law, it would make sense for us to support it. Above all, we have a very important question in the Group of Members, and in particular, how did the market inspection find the right violators acting in a non-profit manner acting for their own needs for the educational process? From this point of view, I believe that the findings and decisions of the market inspectorate are questionable or controversial. That is why we must stop this situation in order to resolve the problem, to do our duty today and to jointly support the necessary changes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u148	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which we shall continue by vote at 15.15, says in half an hour. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u149	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: paragraphs 3, 8, 9, 10 and 11. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 2. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 25 under number one. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 25 shall become irrelevant to Article 25 and the amendment of Article 25 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[There were five votes against.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups to Article 25 was adopted, the amendment of the Joint Left to Article 25 and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 25 to Article three have become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 51. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[There were five votes against.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 58. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 6. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that, in second reading, the National Assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 25, 51 and 58 of the amended draft law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article. No, no, no. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Certification of Instruments in International Transport, under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure in the framework of a regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 2. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 50. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 103. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 49. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 112. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Since the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 125 are essentially the same, we will decide on them together. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 125 and the amendment of the Joint Left to Article 125. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the State Assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that decision. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour and 17 votes in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 17. 2. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law restricting the use of tobacco and related products under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 2. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 29. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 42, if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 42 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 5 votes in favour and 55 votes in favour. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment to Article 29 of the United Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 42 has become irrelevant. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended law has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill was not harmonised. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 61 votes against and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 0.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism under the Regular Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Promoting the Development of Tourism is not suitable for further consideration. [[advertising from the hall]] Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? Yeah. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u150	Of course, I will vote against this decision because I believe that marriage is necessary, an urgent law. We know that last year some schools were subjected to inspection services because they independently organized, in their own directing, excursions, professional excursions. As a result, they also received some reminders from inspection services. Look, the spring is coming, the number of trips will increase, schools will be in uncertainty about how to organize excursions so they won't be sanctioned. I believe that the Government is preparing a system law, but we do not know when this system law will really be adopted, probably only with the new school year; the question is, if spring, when these excursions will be under way. Therefore, I ask you to vote against this motion for a decision, and in this way at least solve this pressing problem as soon as possible. The government can then still draw up its own system law, which will include other solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u151	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. This decision will be supported by the SMC Group, because the New Slovenia Group has only proposed to amend one article, which is a copy of the government proposal. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has already completed its public debate in the past month on the proposal for a law on the promotion of the development of tourism, which also addresses the issue of the distinction between a professional excursion and a tourist arrangement. In the Modern Centre Party, we support the integrity of the system solution, so we will support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u153	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Of course we'll vote against it. I'll try to explain myself again. Let us say that we decide that this debate room needs not just a few people to be replaced, but some renovations and that we will do so when the end of this mandate is over. And next week we're going to be left up there, here, over the president of the National Assembly, the other most important people in the country -- it's not funny -- but this coalition is going to say, we're going to wait for this to be resolved systematically. And that is how we have been operating for two-thirds of our term of office. It's not funny, it's sad to break up. Literally. It's "in-in" logic. And if there is a role of the opposition, the role of the opposition – of course, we will find it difficult to bring some systemic law in, but to warn and try to solve a whole range of minor everyday matters that we sometimes have in hypernormal society and the country. That's what this is about. The fact that you are resisting from the coalition, even if I leave aside that after this term, if someone says "systemic" to me, I no longer guarantee that I will not do anything to him, but I am a peaceable man, because you have so prepared this word for me that I can no longer hear it. And that's what you do in one of your own universes, and you'll obviously be doing it by the end of your term of office. Otherwise, we will all end up in a dump in history, but as the current information officer has told us – many of your non-systemic laws or something that is not, will prevent us from living for years to come and for decades to come. That is why I am really upset that, fortunately, we have little of that basic farm of minds and that now we all press "against" and solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u155	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. We will also vote against this proposal in our parliamentary group. I think Comrade Duck has shown very clearly how this problem of the novelty of the law has arisen. It was also interesting in the debate where most coalition members found that the law was appropriate to solve the matter in the right way, but that it was not systemic. And here I agree that this way that you now propose or vote it does not actually solve this problem. If we had any further discussions with the Ministry, we would find that they have no idea at all when the system law would be concluded. Given that we do not know when the mandate will be completed, this is even more questionable. Even more alarming is the fact that you or the services that have discussed and provided certain explanations on this issue have essentially put this law, which is now in force, and also the novelty that is being prepared through government services, into the state of some illegality. Because certain people from the Ministry and inspection services have made it clear that an agreement is now in place not to supervise the institutions of education. So you, as a coalition, are now supporting illegality and non-implementation. On the other hand, you have a solution that makes matters legal so that, according to your household, the wolf is full and the goat is whole. But no, you keep pushing for a solution that will mean one year of illegality. For the inspection services were ordered not to control the institutions of education, that was public, for the magnetogram was told. So you're in favor of illegality. On the other hand, someone's going to report, I don't know, a group of pensioners, a fire company that's going to organize a trip. And now we have to ask ourselves, are we in this room to legally regulate things that have a basis and that's why they also work, do you support that in some partial way there is support for some illegality in this system? Even the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that the law is appropriate, it is up to Members to decide whether to resolve this at this time and whether it is legally appropriate or leave the matter open for one year and in some way illegal, because you, with your purchases and dealings with the inspection services, have agreed to illegality. We need to ask ourselves why we are sitting in this national assembly. Do we support marriage - based solutions, or do we make home arrangements to avoid things? We're against this law being stopped because we believe it solves things well.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u157	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u158	I will vote against this law being inappropriate for further consideration. Because if you vote that this is inappropriate for further consideration, then you also vote against the solution proposed by your government. Ambassador Sherganov said that the problem was that we copied the pasta – that is, we copied, copied the solution proposed by the Government and put it into law. What, then, will you also vote against your marriage that the law is inappropriate for further consideration? Do you know how many laws are passed in this House, which are not systemic, but they solve a specific case? Turn the film back and you will find that in this House we have adopted a number of laws that correct only one article or regulate a small detail. This law solves the very specific problem that schools, organisations and other institutions will have if they organize trips for more than 24 hours. Any reasonable person would support that. But of course this is about prestige, because this coalition does not allow any concrete solution that is good for people to be carried out by the opposition, but you have what we have today. But then no wonder if the nation is going crazy, and then no wonder, dear coalition, if it happens that the opposition is also very diverse, ideological and otherwise, if I say a little by chance, if this marriage unites and Ludmila and John, and if this law unites and New Slovenia and the United Left. This is the result of your impossible work.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u159	More explanations in your own name. Please sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye! I have to say that in my life I've been in school so much that I've organized trips and that I've worked my whole life in societies, many societies where we've organized things and done everything volunteering. When this story happened a while ago about inspections of schools and various small companies making small profits, of course I couldn’t believe it was true. At that time, this government could not deal with these inspections, and it was after months of informing what was happening and what was not happening. That is why I simply cannot oppose this proposal for a law. But as for the time story, the time story is like this; the first is what the colleague has already said, the spring will be here any minute and they will be May trips, even in April. The other is that if we happen to have early elections, the matter will last for two years or longer. Well, I've given my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u161	Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against the motion for a decision because this law, the law of New Slovenia, solves the problems that are immediately. We can practically say, from this day forward. What are some promises that will and so forth — we do not know when. We don't know when the end of the term will be. We don't know. We don't know anything. And problems need to be solved immediately, not waiting to see what happens. I will vote against it because I am in favour of school trips, I will vote against it because I am in favour of retirement trips, I will vote against it because I am in favour of various other trips, and today some Slovenian public are here telling you that you are against trips. That's incomprehensible. This excuse for the coalition to come by the government with a comprehensive and systemic solution, that's flattering. Why? Because we do not have rules to calculate whether a marriage solution is comprehensive and systemic or not. What makes you think that this is not a systemic solution, that this is not a comprehensive solution? This is a comprehensive solution and a systemic solution to the problem that has arisen. Unfortunately for me, it saddens me as if we were returning, it seems to me that we are returning to some of the previous times when some also opposed Slovenian independence. I remember one of the ministers of the Demos' government who said, "It was a time when the incapacitated were unable to incapacitate the incapacitated."
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u163	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much, President. I'll be against this decision, too. This law solves something just before major problems arise, and you claim in the coalition that you will not support it to solve it, but will come later in some system law, while agreeing with the inspection service that these cases will not be punished. But what if you agree only on some cases, but for some, you don't? That this is targeted? And if we compare this law with the law on Hotch, where it was intended to only intimidate landowners with some law, then nothing else, to overrun a bunch of legislation in force because of one investor. Was that systemic? In the end, maybe it won't work. That's your systemality. Now, just because the opposition party has suggested this, we will not accept it, but we will agree on someone to whom they will not punish such cases. Is this a legal state? Just because of the indignation, it has been said at home that some opposition party would propose something good and bring it through the legislative process. Such an excuse about the systemic solution of Comrade Duck said well that we are fed up with it. [[…]] I'm afraid it would take at least two more mandates to get used to this systemic resolution. But that's not gonna happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u165	Is there still an interest in explanations of voice? Please sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you, President. I'll be against this decision, too. Now, I hear one argument that New Slovenia should be pleased that their personal assistance has been confirmed. I think so! Are we normal, or are we the National Assembly that decides about our citizens, our inhabitants, or are we here to go party prestige? They suggested a solution that apparently solves a problem that your children who go to school or kindergarten and some of the children of other families in this country who bring some problems to both school and then to children and parents who have to take these children on a trip and take them on a trip. This is the question that is on the table here today: Will we make it easier for schools, societies, others, or are we now going to be locked up here because of New Slovenia's proposal? Because this proposal is a law for the benefit of the people and the people of this country, I will oppose this decision and expect such a law to be rectified. Because, as we have already heard today, these systemic solutions come a long time or never come. So there is no argument that there will be systemic solutions: now we have a problem and now we can solve it. When the new law comes, it will repeal it and be valid with all systemic solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u167	Self-explanation of the vote [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] How? Gradually, Luca Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Now that six debaters have signed up, I see that this is where the whole jumbo chat room, so I would ask you, President, to calm things down before we proceed with a debate that is not irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u169	First, let me tell you that we are not at the point of discussion, but at the point of explanation of vote. Nevertheless, I would ask for peace in the hall so that we can continue. Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor to explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u170	The key question of each Parliament meeting should be whether Members and Members are mature enough to decide on the basis of the content, the quality of the legislation, the proposal or whether we decide on the basis of where the law comes from. This moment, when New Slovenia actually proposes a solution to a particular problem, and when we hear on the other hand from the ruling coalition that even the law supports, content as such, at least it was said on the committee that the solution is okay, it is really unargued and childish, literally childish and immature of this Parliament, to decide on the basis that we will vote "against": if, we have already supported the personal assistance of New Slovenia and we will wait for our law. New Slovenia solves the problem for the spring, solves the problem with its law, which it proposes to this national assembly, and solves one major problem. On the other hand, legislation is not ready and we cannot now make a decision on the basis of some groundless rumours systematically: non-systemic, but we must make a decision on the basis of serious legal arguments. I want us to finally decide for once in this national assembly that we will start supporting good proposals and then reject the bad proposals in a reasoned manner. But you cannot say that this proposal is good, but we will support ours, which will someday be in the future. Let's be serious.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u171	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you. Of course, I will support the decision proposed — why? The substance has not been stated; the essence is that this law on the promotion of tourism has been in public since December, which ended on 20 January. One part of the story that we have before us today is regulated in this law. And, yes, yes, New Slovenia has prepared a copy paste piece of this law. The law also regulates other issues which are also essential in the Act on the Promotion of Tourism. I don't know where else my colleagues are going to get this law in a year. Apparently, they have a magic bullet that told them that this law would be passed in a year. I do not have this information, nor do my colleagues in the SMC Group have this information. I personally believe that this law will be passed as soon as possible. The public debate was concluded on 20 January. However, I am concerned about the practice of New Slovenia that it will copy and then propose to the coalition that it adopt all the laws that this government has in public treatment to take the pieces. It's those pieces that are like, that are important, that are interesting. I believe and hope that this will not become a practice until the elections. So once again, I'll take this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u173	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u174	I will, of course, vote against this decision because our law solves the acute problem. I am a member of the Committee on Education and those who are also members of the Committee on Education have been able to attend the meeting of the Committee on Education in which we have addressed this issue. There were school representatives, market inspectors, then agency representatives and so on. What did they all figure out? The market inspector must respond if an anonymous application comes in. So they had to respond. Schools felt threatened that we could no longer prepare appropriate excursions, and so far we were able to do so. Then the agencies felt threatened, who now had more knowledge or teachers or guides or who. This is said to have been the case, and a simple proposal was finally put forward: let us change this article, which is causing us problems, and we will solve the problem. That is why we have done this in New Slovenia, we propose, except for educational institutions and societies, and in this way schools and societies, all those who organize non-profit excursions, can carry out their activities. That was our main purpose. So we're putting out a fire that was involved. I think that a fellow Member who has spoken before, but how Nova Slovenija will act in Parliament If we stick to the rules of procedure, this is our problem, how and what we propose and do not need any lessons. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u175	Let me first ask that we remain within the explanations of vote. There are always explanations of their own voices. It is valid for the last two debates – I think they were debates instead of explanations of vote. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Anyone who has also seen the Economic Committee, where we have considered this law, in particular the proposal, may be able to turn this film back and see what the arguments were for all of us by the coalition. So they weren't there; they were pulled out of five veins, as some rhetoric might say. Look, you talk about social standing more than once about social exclusion. So schoolchildren in a school where parents pack some Euro fights for a trip will now have to pay more because they will hire an agency to go on a trip. It's the same with the pensioners. The question of expertise: either a teacher, for example, a geography that takes its students to Vienna, or to Gradec, or to Belgrade — for you, because you prefer to see it — whether it is more professional or not. Now this amendment of this law is solving people's life problems, and that is the essence of the legislation. When you talk about systemicity and theft, a respected colleague from the SMC, the SDS party worked for years on the Law on apprenticeship, especially on this. We put it three times in this term, you stole the idea, you could say, you got it; you got it, you'd be the right expression, because most people will understand, even though you're going to say it's not typical Slovenian. And look, this is where I return the ball: typical bureaucratic thinking! Look at the essence of everything we've forgotten, dear colleagues from New Slovenia, you said they influenced the inspectors. Do they know the Law of Inspection? It's not a problem. This is typical of what I say all the time: the dictatorship of the privileged part of the public sector in Parliament through the SMC. It's this story, if, we even have an influence on the inspector, we can say three months you don't have to respect the law. That's the big point of this story. This is the biggest point that we can learn – their great impact on the inspection that is in the bodies of the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u177	I ask all of us to remain within the explanations of our own voice and not touch everyone else. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, I have to touch everyone else, because my associates are here, and if even Mrs. Ludmila, who is kind of a noble right and conservative, here a little bit of a plant, I'm worried about the other with her health, after all. However, if we are having a very serious conversation, my colleague Tonin and I have now discussed some initial proposal for a law where there was no solution, with the stakeholders, but one of the opposition parties has come up with this urgent solution, and all who have little sense, because somehow everything has been explained. Simply put, I don't know, man doesn't understand it anymore, but sometimes they say we're male parametics, that we don't have a lot of intelligence, but maybe that's why. I don't know. Every time I don't understand something, I wonder, 'cause not everyone else can be that crazy, I'm probably crazy. I don't know. I really don't get it. And then we have these kind of ping-pongs, and I look at the faces of the SMC and then you look at everyone like some insulted good students I had on the FDV – why are you fighting us here? - and you're still kind of surprised. If this logic, which someone had previously said, had been taken, I would say, because at least some of the proposals of the United Left are supported, then I will automatically vote against everything else, which is essentially some extreme form of irresponsibility of Members and Members. I don't have any problems, and sometimes some of my lefties are attacking me to support the good proposals of SDS. I am not exactly proud of what Mr Chuš has been doing in connection with the refugee crisis, but if a good proposal leads to a parliament that is urgently needed to solve something, of course I will support it. I mean, so many basic maturitys, I don't know, have my children in the preschool age – but more mothers are responsible for their upbringing than I am for not being as grateful as I am. Of course I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-15-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u179	You really don't know how to deal with yourself when you explain your voice. Is there any other explanation for the voice in your own name? It's not. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 32. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the Council of State has taken a decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on this bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
