ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Erika Dekleva from 6 p.m. to 16 p.m., Mrs Janja Sluga until 4 p.m., Mrs. Urška Ban until 2 p.m., Mrs. Jelka Godec from 16 p.m. to 16 p.m., Mrs. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko from 17 p.m., Mr. Kamal Izidor Shaker until 2.30 p.m., Dr. Dragan Matić, Mr. Peter Wilfan, Mr. Jan Škoberne, Mr. Matjaž Han to 16 p.m., Mr. Tomaž Gantar until 13 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 16 p.m.m., Mr. Miha Kordiš from 16 p.m.m., Luka Mesec from 16 p.m. Franz Runk by 11:00. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments to the agricultural land laws after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has proposed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Lands Act, extending the range of agricultural policy measures to allow for the full implementation of land operations, in particular irrigation. So far, the arrangements provide funding for the construction and modernisation of irrigation systems, but without an appropriate water source it cannot operate. Therefore, the proposal also allows for the use of funds collected from compensations resulting from the change in the destination of agricultural land, for the construction, rehabilitation and modernisation of water reservoirs, provided that two key conditions are met, that it is owned by the State and that it is at least partly intended for irrigation of agricultural land. However, the funds collected from compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land may be made available for the preparation of other agricultural policy and agricultural land protection professional bases. The second part of the bill is intended to facilitate the transfer of ownership of state irrigation systems to local communities. Incentive systems owned by the state were mostly built more than 30 years ago. Today these systems are long-lasting and necessary renovations, and the ownership structure has changed significantly during this period. The arrangements so far provided for the signing of a contract on the transfer of ownership of the state irrigation system to the local community between the Ministry responsible for agriculture, the local community and all landowners after which the irrigation divorce is taking place; this has proved to be virtually impossible in practice because of a number of owners and co-owners, as pointed out by local communities interested in obtaining irrigation systems in management. Simplification facilitates the transfer of property by signing only between the Ministry and interested local communities. The bill extends the transitional period for the transition to a new system of charging costs based on signed irrigation contracts. In particular, for the state and local irrigation systems that were built before 2002, the transition to a new system of charging costs since 2031 is envisaged, the transition to a new system of charging costs is reduced in the event of the technological modernisation of these irrigation systems financed from public funds. However, for state and local irrigation systems which were built after 2002, this transition to the new system is foreseen no later than 2021. Dear Members! I hope the marriage is supported by you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Lisc to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Lands Act as a working body at its 26th session on 30 November this year. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which commented on Articles 1 and 3 of the draft law, and prepared appropriate explanations to these comments. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. In accordance with Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was forwarded to the local communities. Until the expiry of the deadline, which is 27 November 2017, the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana was forwarded to the National Assembly, which agrees with the proposed amendments and additions to the current law, and the decision of the Municipal Council of Kočevje Municipality, which proposes to supplement the proposal of the law, so that funds can also be used to finance the construction, rehabilitation or modernisation of the collecting meteor water and water wells for the purpose of providing farms without an adequate water source for livestock purposes. The Director of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia participated in the debate, which stressed that the Chamber supports the proposal for a law and also expressed the expectation that the final regulation of Vogršček will take place after the adoption of the law, as the country has been trying to remedy this irrigation system for many years. The majority of the members of the committee supported the proposed provisions of the bill in the debate and also highlighted some concerns and issues. Initially, criticism was expressed over the failure of local communities to respond to the call for opinions on the proposed amendment of the law and the non-participation of invited representatives of local communities at the meeting of the Committee. As mentioned above, only the Municipality of Ljubljana and Municipality of Kočevje provided opinions. The members of the Committee considered that the proposed novelty was good if it would only lead to an increase in irrigation systems and irrigation areas, while the fear was expressed that the funds collected from compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land would otherwise be earmarked for the construction of water reservoirs, for example for small or large hydroelectric power plants, and that the actual construction of irrigation systems would never result in an abuse of these resources. It was further pointed out that in order to build the irrigation system, a number of long-term procedures had to be carried out, from obtaining the consent of all landowners to putting them into space and so on. These are procedures that take years, but must be completed before the conclusion of a co-financing contract for the construction of a large holder on the basis of funds collected from compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land. The question therefore arises whether the provisions of the amendment are clearly written enough to prevent the financing of the construction of some water or energy infrastructure under the pretext of building irrigation systems, which would never have been built in the end. It was also pointed out that the amendment to the law was put into the legislative process shortly after the invitation to tender for large irrigation systems amounted to EUR 7 million, only 2 applications of EUR 80 000 had arrived. This data shows that, irrespective of the increasing impact of climate change, there is no or no interest in irrigation systems between farmers, or the problem is precisely in the long-term processes for the construction of irrigation systems. The water reservoirs should therefore be financed from compensation collected for the change in the destination of agricultural land, but only when the construction of the irrigation system with this water reservoir is a strong fact, i.e. when a decision of the Ministry of Justice has already been issued. The question was also raised whether the rebalancing of the 2018 budget and the 2019 budget follow what the law will bring and whether the funds collected will be used by only some farmers or certain undertakings, not all of them, while the budget will be provided by all local communities. This points out that we do not have all the water available, so that some households will continue to run out of drinking water and the local community will co-finance irrigation systems for individual farmers. With regard to the proposal by Mr Janko Vebra for the amendment of the Committee to Article 1, in which the above-mentioned Decision of the Municipality of Kočevje Municipality is fully summarised, the State Secretary explained that the Ministry nevertheless agrees with the proposal and has reservations to the proposed amendment because such investments are supported by the rural development programme. If the source, the compensation for the change of destination, were used so widely to create such smaller investments, then it would no longer be rational. The Committee voted on the proposed proposal for amendments to the Committee and did not adopt it. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them. Since no amendments were adopted to the draft law on second reading at the home labour body, the Committee on Agriculture proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act should be adopted in the present text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! This summer, after April’s cold to remedy the consequences for which we had to adopt a special law for the second year in a row, Slovenia was hit by another severe drought in the history of the country. It is a drought which, according to the first estimates of the extent of the damage, has exceeded the drought in 2003, which has been the worst drought in 20 years. The consequences of climate change are getting worse and more frequent. From 2003 to last year, Slovenian agriculture suffered half a billion euros in damage due to extreme weather events. In the last 15 years, we have only had 3 years without natural disasters that would cause damage to agriculture in one way or another. The effects of climate change in agriculture could be greatly mitigated if they were adapted in a timely manner. The fact is, we're already very late, but better late than never. The Law on Agricultural Lands, which we are considering today, will allow co-financing of the construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of water reservoirs, which are partly intended for irrigation of agricultural land and are state-owned water infrastructure. Water retentions that can be used by irrigation to mitigate the effects of colds and by irrigation to mitigate the effects of droughts. In Levi, we welcome such a change, but during the course of the treatment on the home labour body, we have raised concerns about the fact that money deliberately collected from compensation for the purpose of agricultural land would not be used to co-finance large water retentionists, but irrigation systems would never be built with these restraints. For the construction of the irrigation system can only start after the power of the decision to introduce the irrigation system, which is issued by the Ministry of Agriculture on a proposal from the local community or private landowners or their representatives. The proposal for the introduction of the irrigation system should include, inter alia, a list of landowners and their certified declarations of agreement with the introduction of the irrigation system and all the agreed consent or authorizations of the competent authorities provided that a private irrigation system is proposed in the areas of protection and restrictions on specific rules. Before issuing a decision to the competent authorities, the Ministry must verify the conformity of the list of landowners for the establishment of the local irrigation system, the consistency of the list of landowners and their declarations for the introduction of the private irrigation system and the compatibility of the irrigation system with the spatial act of the local community. In short, the procedures that lead to the possibility that the irrigation system can be built are very long-term, and in practice investors could put pressure on payouts, on financing, even before these procedures were actually completed. That is why we in Levica have requested the Ministry to ensure that this will not happen and that the construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of water-restrictors will be financed from funds collected from compensation for land-use change, and we have also received these guarantees. In addition to co-financing the construction, rehabilitation and modernisation of water retention plants, which are partly intended for irrigation of agricultural land and are state-owned water infrastructure, the law will also allow financing for the preparation of agricultural professional bases, facilitate the transfer of the ownership of irrigation systems to the local community and shorten the transition to a new system for charging the costs of irrigation systems, which was foreseen for 2031 to 2021. In Levi, we believe that the changes are good and we will also support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u8	Dear President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we welcome this amendment of the Agricultural Lands Act because we estimate that it will have a positive impact on the management of the negative effects of climate change. As we have seen in recent years, we are increasingly exposed to these negative effects; when there is no drought, there are floods and the management of this problem is certainly of strategic importance for our society and for the whole state of Slovenia. We must not forget that the compensation resulting from the change in the destination of agricultural land results from the transformation of agricultural land into one another and becomes a function of another, and this means that we are permanently losing agricultural land. It is therefore important that these compensation funds, which are the earmarked revenue of the State budget, are also used to improve agricultural conditions. Here it is of paramount importance, as I have stressed, because of these climate changes — droughts, floods — to build restraints to provide water resources for irrigation systems, because otherwise we can expect even worse disasters and negative consequences on agriculture itself and also on self-sustainment. However, I am asked one fundamental question because these resources will be the revenue of the state budget and if these resources are not spent in that year, which means that they will be lost to agriculture and spent on something else altogether. This could be avoided if it would be good for us to consider that these funds would be raised in some kind of fund and, on the basis of this, it would certainly be more likely that these funds would also be used in a qualitative way for such projects, as I mentioned them. I'd like to point out one more fact. Changes in agricultural land are certainly taking place where agricultural land is and where construction is difficult, and there are also the most of these compensations. Here I would like to point out the pomur region and I would like it to be integrated into this system of management with these budgetary resources so that as many of these funds can also return to those areas where there is actually loss of agricultural areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u10	Your Honor! In the Group of Modern Centres we will support amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act. The main change we are looking at is that the funds collected from compensation for the change in agricultural land can also be earmarked for the construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of state water reservoirs. These state facilities cannot be financed from the rural development programme, which is why it is important to obtain this law. The first such facility to benefit from this change is Vogršček Water Restraint. When this government was on the ground and became aware of the long-standing, long-standing problems in rehabilitating this state facility, it decided to find a solution that would end these problems, and this is the solution that we will today, I hope, be confirmed. In the Modern Centre page, we are aware that climate change is most affected by farmers who are most dependent on time. In recent times we have a number of problems, from cold to dry, to floods, and if we want to be as safe as possible, it is very important that, as quickly as possible and as much as possible, the agricultural areas intended for the production of food for the population are equipped with irrigation systems, with irrigation systems, to place as many surfaces under the greenhouses as possible, so that farmers can start growing as quickly as possible and this production is carried out as long as possible in winter. In this way, we reduce our dependence on imports and thereby increase our food security and also to provide our people with local and better food, which does not have such a negative impact on the environment and the climate. This novelty also allows other agricultural policy and agricultural land protection expertise to be financed from the funds collected by these compensations. In addition, the transition period is being extended to a new way of charging the costs of managing and maintaining state and local irrigation systems, depending on when they were built. Those built before 2002 shall be extended to 2030 and others to 2020. It makes sense for old systems to be restored and transferred to local communities or abandoned, now depending on the economy or interest, and until then, do not burden users with new contracts. Another thing is being simplified, and this is the transfer of ownership from the state to the local community, which will be a little simpler from now on. For all the reasons and arguments mentioned above, as I said at the outset, we welcome the amendment of this law in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u11	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u12	Dear President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act, we are certainly aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party of the effects of climate change that agriculture or farmers, as well as consumers, are often in a very difficult situation. Of course, this proposal is of a smaller nature, but it is important for the further development of irrigation systems. However, it is essential to transfer ownership from country to local communities. Here, on this segment, we have, of course, concerns in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this money, which will be deliberately collected, will be possible – and I hope not – where it will disappear and will not come where it is necessary to build new irrigation systems, to maintain already built irrigation systems. But despite the fact that we are aware in the Slovenian Democratic Party that climate change, particularly today we are talking about drought, needs to be talked about and worked before drought strikes us. That is why we will not oppose this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u14	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, everyone's welcome! In our parliamentary group, we view the proposal for a new Law on Agricultural Lands as a very important contribution to the further development of irrigation in Slovenia. One of the most important solutions brought by the novel is that the funds collected from compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land will be allocated to water retentionists, both for their construction, rehabilitation and for the modernisation of state water retentionists. The fact is that we have large water reservoirs whose rehabilitation or modernisation means costs exceeding the recognised costs of individual investment, which have limitations in the rural development programme. Another good solution brought by the novel is that the municipalities can decide whether to take ownership of large irrigation systems or whether they will remain state-owned. The transfer of ownership will not require the consent of landowners through which the irrigation system runs, which is just another advantage. This is a solution that the Ministry has proposed, in its own words, from the ground and the Ministry has listened to and followed the proposals. In the Desus Group, we view the proposal for a new law as some kind of preparation of Slovenian agriculture for climate change, which will affect our country with an ever-increasing drought period, regardless of the fact that we are currently a very watery country. It is precisely these large quantities of water that must be properly distributed in time and stored with such restraints in order to make water available to farmers throughout the year. The Ambassador and Members of the Desus Group will unanimously support the proposal because of the positive solutions that the amendment brings through the expansion of irrigation measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u15	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! We will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Agricultural Lands Act by supplementing and correcting existing solutions that are extremely important for more efficient farming as they enable the construction, rehabilitation and modernisation of water retention and the transfer of property of state irrigation systems to the local community, thus making the system more efficient. However, an important solution and addition in this law is that it also provides additional resources for all of this, namely the funds collected from compensation for the change in the destination of agricultural land, and the impact of the funds collected will be even greater in the area of agricultural processing. The draft law was also supported by the Council of State and the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture. While we have also received the initiative of the Municipality of Kočevje to supplement the law in a way that funds collected on the basis of the change in the purpose of compensation would also be used to finance the construction, rehabilitation and modernisation of meteoric water and water wells for the purpose of providing farms with no adequate source, for the purpose of livestock farming. The amendment, which has been tabled, has not been supported on our part, but the possibility is open for all these systems to be included in the rural financing programme of the Ministry of Agriculture. So we hope that these projects will also be successful, because it is also to a large extent in Slovenia, also for areas where there is not enough opportunity to build reservoirs and irrigation systems, but, of course, it is extremely important to ensure an adequate water source, for example, for livestock farming, and we hope that this programme will also come to life. So because of all the important solutions that this law brings, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u17	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u18	Dear President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of the Agricultural Lands Act brings more solutions. They are essential: new funding for the construction, rehabilitation and modernisation of water reservoirs will also be available as a result of the change in the destination of agricultural land. However, they will have to be met under the condition that it is a water reservoir owned by the State and that it is at least partly intended for irrigation of agricultural land. The possibility of financing other professional grounds for agricultural land policy, such as analysis of the state of irrigation systems, is also added, it is simplified and it is possible to transfer ownership rights on the state irrigation system to the local community in such a way that the contract for the transfer of ownership rights on the state irrigation system is signed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the municipality. The transfer of ownership of the administration and maintenance of irrigation systems from the country to the municipalities, according to the applicant, the Ministry, does not affect the amount of management and maintenance costs paid by landowners in the irrigation system area. In New Slovenia, however, we have concerns about the transfer of irrigation systems, as the problem is that there is no means to depreciate the system. Currently farmers pay the costs of water consumption if they soak, and then another 20 euros per hectare of irrigation area, which is used for the most basic maintenance of the system, such as start-up, conservation, inspection of hydrants and grass baskets. However, if there is an emergency system error, the municipality must give additional money, and this number of municipalities — an increasing number of tasks — are no longer able to do so without additional funding resources. However, agricultural crop prices do not exceed the higher costs in order, for example, to introduce a network. The State should provide the municipalities with money for the long-term provision of maintenance funds, i.e. network such as the pipeline. In practice, however, it is quite the opposite, and this government is persistently squandering funds for the congregations. Nor does the law solve the problem encountered in practice by establishing the area of the local irrigation system so that, instead of the necessary signatures of all owners, the consent of the owners of two-thirds of the area of agricultural land which signed the irrigation contract would be sufficient. According to the current law, they are the only ones who can provide a closed external irrigation edge, large owners such as Panvita and similar. And that is also in the direction of this policy of Minister of the Jews and Social Democrats. Obviously, the law is not in harmony with the congregations, and since this is not the case, the transfer to the congregations is an escape from responsibility. The minister washed his hands Pilately, and no longer a problem for him. The municipalities are so placed in a position to provide funds for investment maintenance of irrigation systems. This means that irrigation systems will slowly fail in the long run because the municipalities do not have these funds. Members of New Slovenia will not support the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the mother labour body proposes to the assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF AN ADDITIONAL CONCESSIVE DETAILS FROM REVENUE PAYED FOR PROVISIONAL AND TEMPORARY WORK OF STUDENTS AND PURSUANT TO THE STRENGTHENING PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž God.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, good morning also on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport! On the table is the text of the Law on Amendments to the Act on additional concession activities from benefits paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students. This is actually a text that brings two main objectives or two major changes, the first of which is to allow greater flexibility in the use of this method of raising funds, as the proposed amendments make it possible to spend not only on the repayment of loans under the guarantee scheme but also on direct financing or co-financing of investments. Another important amendment or important addition is the extension of the purpose of spending concession funds, namely in public higher education institutions for construction, purchase, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance, and in the field of student homes, the range of beneficiaries is also extended to student homes and it is possible to use funds for purchasing, reconstructing, expanding, maintaining and equipping these. In short, in addition, it is about adapting the legal basis or the legal basis to the actual situation, because we all know that there are several combined student accommodations or student-dike set up recently, and for this reason this kind of addition is of crucial importance. The proposed amendments to the law follow the principle of cost-effectiveness as it also allows direct co-financing of investments in the case of available concession funds. However, by extending the purpose of spending resources on all investment investments, it is also possible to use funds economically in the light of the stated needs. However, the repayment of the loans paid remains a priority; direct co-financing of investments will only be possible with the remainder of the concession funds collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u21	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u22	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! At its 39th regular meeting on 29 November this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Additional Grants from the benefits paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 108th regular meeting on 12 October this year that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, the proposed law-law service has been examined and its representative has explained that the comment submitted to Article 2 is taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport Dr Tomaž Boh. In particular, the debate was held that it is right that students, apart from studies, also create suitable conditions for studies, that the wage discipline of tar employers should also be regulated in the future so that the student work should not be socially corrective, as young people should enter the labour market as soon as possible and thus prevent the extension of the study. Following the vote on the amendment, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u23	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which again Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The bill before us aims to increase flexibility in the use of additional concession fees from the so-called student work intended to maintain, rebuild and build the student and student infrastructure, i.e. higher education complexes, student and student homes and housing units intended to accommodate students. The Act on the additional concession fee paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students was adopted in 2003 and enabled the co-financing of spatial conditions, technological equipment and the renovation of student housing facilities. In the event of its first amendment a good decade ago, concessionaires were ordered to transfer the additional concession fee charged directly to the budget fund and the Student Organisation was excluded as an intermediary in the collection of the funds. Since the last amendment to the law in 2010, the funds collected from the additional concession fee shall be allocated for the repayment of loans hired for the construction and renovation of student housing facilities, the modernisation of the spatial conditions and the technological equipment of universities set up by the Republic of Slovenia. Since the last instalments of the loans will only be repaid in 2033, the proposal extends the purpose of spending resources in such a way that the concession funds can directly co-finance an investment aimed at either restoring and maintaining or building new housing capacities for students and students. We support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members. We also believe that it is right for students and students to contribute to the maintenance of their own infrastructure and thus improve their learning conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u25	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Since 2003, part of the remuneration paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students and students charged by organisations for the intervention of temporary and occasional student works has been deliberately allocated over the so-called additional concession fee. It follows from the explanation of the legal proposal at the time that it is necessary to ensure that the investment works programme in higher education and the regulation of student housing are carried out without delay and that it is necessary to provide the necessary funds to enable the large part of the student population to stay and thus study. With a few changes to the original law, both the organisations involved in the intervention of the student work and the funds raised at 2% still point to the budget fund, which is intended to co-finance the construction and renovation of student housing facilities and to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment of public universities. After several years of implementation of such an arrangement, an assessment was made on the government side to make sense to extend the purpose of the use of funds, since, in individual cases, it would be more appropriate to finance or co-finance the investment directly. It would also be appropriate to extend the purpose of spending resources in order to focus on urgently needed investments, such as maintenance and modernisation of facilities, in view of the need. We are allowing them to do so with the proposed amendment of the law, as the proposed amendments relate to greater flexibility in the use of resources, as they extend the purpose of spending concession funds, namely in public higher education institutions for construction, purchase, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance and equipment, also in the case of student housing. It is important that the new funds will also be allocated to student homes and that the repayment of the credits already paid remains a priority. However, direct co-financing of investments will only be possible with the remaining concession funds raised. The new law continues to follow the general objective of promoting the spatial expansion of student housing capacities and the renewal of university technology equipment, which we support in the SMC Group and will vote in favour of the adoption of the new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u27	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Speaking of this Ministry's budget fund, it has to be said that under the basic law it was set up by 31. 12. 2009 From that date, the funds collected from this concession fee were intended to repay the loans of the Student Organisation of Slovenia for the construction and renovation of student housing facilities. The amended and amended Act specified that the funds collected and the additional concession fees from 1 January 2009 should be allocated to these activities. However, in providing financial resources for investments, it was found appropriate to extend the purpose of their use, since in individual cases it would be more prudent to rent a loan, which is a more expensive source of funding, to directly co-finance or to finance an investment. At the same time, during the 2007-2013 programming period, higher investment in higher education was co-financed by the European Structural Funds, and the current financial perspective 2014-2020 unfortunately reduced the volume of these investment funds. The two objectives are somehow followed by this law, allowing greater flexibility in the use of funds and extending the purpose of spending concession fees. As far as flexibility is concerned, it is important that, on the basis of the proposed amendments, it is possible to spend not only on the repayment of credits, as was the case now, but on direct financing or co-financing of investments. This is mainly about the fact that it is becoming more transparent and that we also have a greater review of the intention to use these funds. As regards the extension of the purpose of the use of concession funds, public higher education institutions include construction, purchase, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance. In the area of student homes, however, there is a wide range of beneficiaries, so we also receive, for example, student homes and the possible use of funds. This will allow greater flexibility and wider consumption, and in particular control if we add these elements. Thus, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we see no reason to oppose this law. Of course, it must be said that more investment should be made in accommodation facilities for students and students. We know that many of them are driven, many of them are from socially endangered families, and all of them must – regardless of where they are, where they come from, what families they come from – make it possible for them to study equally, and some serious issues should be addressed by the State. This law mainly refers to financing, if we call it real estate, unfortunately, in this mandate we have not witnessed any changes to the legislation, nor to measures, except for a declaration or resolution on the national housing programme, which, unfortunately, is only a dead letter on paper so far, although some deadlines are quite specified, what will be built, what will be put into use, how the property will be used, how it will be intended to be used. And now action is needed, and concrete action must also be taken for our students and our students. Last but not least, there have been a lot of speeches in the Modern Centre Party programme and the coalition contract has identified housing cooperatives and there will be nothing in this area until the end of the term of office. I rarely agree with my colleagues from the Left, but unfortunately, as far as housing policy is concerned, nothing has been done in this mandate to say that we have a positive housing policy, especially the population covered by this law, which is up to our young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. All present, well-known! Although the amendment of the Act on additional concession activities brings a small but significant change in the purpose of the use of the funds indicated by student organisations in the budget fund under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. The proposal for a law follows the conclusion that the purpose of spending resources should be broadened, since instead of renting a loan, which is a more expensive source of funding, it is more prudent to directly finance an investment. The funds collected from the additional concession activity are now allocated to the budget fund for the repayment of loans hired for the construction and renovation of student homes and for the modernisation of the premises and technological equipment of universities set up by the Republic of Slovenia. The most recent instalments of long-term loans with the State guarantee accepted for this purpose will only be repaid in 2033. This amendment of the law will allow greater flexibility in spending resources, broaden the purpose of spending concession funds and add investments to the beneficiaries' homes. Thus, the repayment of the loans paid remains a priority and direct financing of the investments will only be possible with the remainder of the concession funds raised. In the Desus Group, we believe that we need to enable young people to study and to allow them to enter the labour market as quickly as possible after the study has been completed. The present bill represents only a small but correct step in the right direction in order to allow for a more prudent investment in infrastructure, which is essential for students and students, so we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u31	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone! We will also support the proposal for a law amending the Act on the additional concession fee paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students, as it is a matter of prudent and purposeful use of such funds and of the fact that the extent of credits that have been rented for the purposes of the accommodation infrastructure is decreasing, it is also reasonable to allocate these funds directly to investments. Such funds will be available in public higher education institutions for construction, purchase, reconstruction, renovation and maintenance and in the field of student homes, a range of beneficiaries will also be extended to student homes and to the possible use of funds for the purchase, expansion, reconstruction and maintenance of these homes. So, we can talk about really being within the education system in individual countries, I hope to say, on a global level, very different at this point. Because students and students not only receive adequate education through their studies, through attending secondary schools, but also through the work they do, in order to make it easier to survive both student and student years and to ensure an appropriate standard, with their work through concession fees through student services they also contribute to the construction of both universities and, of course, accommodation facilities. In short, it is an extremely great effort of students and students, and it is therefore worth congratulating them to be able to do so, while, of course, we also prove that Slovenians can do much more than we can sometimes or often want to acknowledge many others if we do not manage well enough or with our property or something like that. Of course, we can do all of this successfully, especially with such a diligent generation, which also creates conditions with its own work for a good study and also for living. For these reasons, of course, we will support this law, but we also point out what the Student Organisation has pointed out, but there is also a need for an additional resource to be made available all the time within the integral resources and thus, of course, to accelerate the construction of the urgently needed education infrastructure if we are to follow all the development flows in Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u33	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mrs Ljudmila Novak has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u34	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Organisations or employers engaged in the intervention of temporary and occasional works to students and students under the awarded concession contract of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities shall, in accordance with certain other laws, be obliged to charge and pay concession fee and an additional concession fee to the budget fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments to this Act should allow for greater flexibility in the use of funds, as the proposed amendments make it possible to use funds not only for the repayment of loans but also for direct financing or co-financing of investments, as well as to extend the purpose of spending concession funds in public higher education institutions for construction, purchase, reconstruction, renovation and maintenance. In addition to student homes, the purchase, extension, reconstruction, maintenance and equipping of student homes can be financed. This is certainly a useful investment for students and an excuse for their purpose. In the New Slovenia Group, however, we cannot go beyond the fact that student work is a social adjustment and one of the flexible forms of work that is intended for young people. Unfortunately, this option makes it possible to extend the study time many times, and consequently fewer permanent jobs are available in the labour market. We believe that young people should study in particular during the course of the study, and therefore, of course, they need adequate housing and financial conditions. It is important to make efforts to shorten study time so that young people, full of new skills, can enter the labour market faster and contribute to higher economic growth with their knowledge and drive. As a result, fewer student homes would be needed, and young people could become more independent. Young, prospective people who go for new valuable experiences and knowledge abroad, which is welcome, should also be motivated to return to Slovenia, encouraged to return, set up families here and contribute with their experiences to the country’s comprehensive development. In one of yesterday's officers, an article titled Slovenia exorcising its most educated staff, if I summarize briefly, young people who have been sub-doctor-completed abroad have been awkwardly surprised by the decision of the Financial Administration to pay their income during their stay there and some years after returning home. Not only do we push these young people back abroad, we give them a clear signal that it is not good to be a resident of Slovenia. We will support the amendment of the law in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u35	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u36	Until the proposed amendment of the law, we are detained in Levica. The more deliberate use of resources from the additional concession fee and the extension of the range of beneficiaries to the student homes, the more we do not oppose. However, we have some concerns about the use of funds that are not in the immediate interest of those who contribute to the fund and the lack of control and participation of these same students and students in the use of funds from this fund. The law currently in force imposes on concessionaires, this is student service, payment of additional concession fee. These funds are allocated directly to the budget fund and are intended for the conditions of operation of student homes, as well as for the repayment of loans hired for the construction and renovation of homes and for the renovation and technological equipment of public universities. The government has now found that direct co-financing of investments with concession funds would be cheaper than borrowing credit, and this proposal provides for an extension of the purpose of using these funds. Thus, the proposal offers more opportunities to spend the funds of the Fund, which can henceforth be earmarked for direct financing of investments in public higher education institutions and in the field of student and student homes. In this respect, we in Levica estimate that the primary investment of the university is the responsibility of the country. This is particularly true for investments that are not intended for the direct interest of those who contribute to the fund, i.e. students and students. For example, the restoration of the university’s Rectorate is an example of the unjustified use of the Fund’s funds. The use of resources should therefore be strictly limited only to investments in the direct interest of students. The funds must be distributed in accordance with the principle of actual needs, that is, where student beds are lacking, and in order to restore and update the extended student and student homes, it shows them. In order to update university premises, funds should be allocated only if the interest of students is therefore clearly expressed. In addition, at least mechanisms should be put in place to control the use of these funds, in which students and students would be involved. Not only would it be entirely justified that the community of students and students could also actively influence the use of these funds; therefore, to a certain extent, participation in their consumption would be exercised. In the broader context, the country could obtain much more funding from the student work, for renovations, investments and state investments, if the intervention of the student would not be parasiteised by the private agency. Student services, effective money launderers for friends of certain student officials, thus remains a black hole in which public funds are not yet transparently obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u37	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving to nine. This is the starting point of the daily agenda of the law on amendments to and additions to the law on awards and recognitions for exceptional achievements in scientific research and development activities following a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Tomaž God.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word and welcome once again on my behalf! We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Awards and Receipts for Extraordinary Achievements in Scientific Research and Development Activities. The principles of the law or amendments to the law remain the same as in the law in force, but the amendment itself brings some important additions, some important, more precise definitions of procedures and, last but not least, some principles that somehow follow the spirit of time or are the result of changes and views on science or technology and innovation having changed slightly since the adoption of the law in force. The awarding of prizes in any case is a thank you to individuals for their outstanding achievements. At the same time, the award of prizes and recognitions is an excellent form of promotion of science and technology, as well as innovation for the social and economic development of society, and an increase in the social and individual quality of life. The systematic organisation of the award of R & D achievements has increased the social reputation and importance of R & D awards. The changes we have in this text can be summarized into three key sets. One. The introduction of the Pooh Prizes for Life Work and for Excellence gives greater importance to the transfer of scientific research results into economic and social practice. Here we are following the increased importance of transfer of knowledge and innovation, and in this case we are also giving greater attention to those researchers, those workers or those experts working in the field of technology and innovation, and to the achievements achieved by our universities and research institutes, by contributing to and for the benefit of greater social growth or economic growth, they are transferring the economy to economic societies and also to the wider social environment. Second meaning or second set of changes. In particular, the proposal highlights the importance of scientific research honesty in the work of researchers and therefore introduces compliance with the European Code of Conduct for the Preservation of Research Honesty. In recent times, we have seen a significant number, especially in the world, and last but not least, Slovenia is not immune to this, the adaptations or closures of scientific achievements, and from this point of view it was important for the winners or for those who run for these highest scientific and innovation awards to introduce this segment into the relevant legislation. At the end. The limitation of the duration of the mandate of members of the committee to one consecutive term shall take into account the desire to ensure the participation of as many distinguished researchers from various scientific fields throughout Slovenia in the selection of the most important achievements of scientists and researchers. With these changes, we believe that the law governing R & D awards is updated with important elements that are important because of the new social relations or new social practices that we are witnessing in the field of R & D, and we believe that, under this law, the award of awards will be even more transparent and the winners will enjoy even greater reputation in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u39	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 39th regular meeting on 29 November this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Awards and Recognitions for Exceptional Achievements in Scientific Research and Development, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. At its 111th regular meeting on 6 November this year, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects, the proposed law has been examined by the Legal and Legislative Service and its representative has explained that the comments they have made to Article 2 are taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by a representative of the proposer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport Dr Tomaž Boh. The debate focused on Article 6 of the new law, in which the amendment of the Committee was also proposed by the Left. A member of the Committee, Member of the Left, was reasoned that the amendment proposed that the composition of the redesigned committee should take into account, in addition to certain representations of all fields of scientific knowledge, the sexual balance of the members. He explained that this was regulated in the Prešeren Prize Act in the same way. Some felt that the criterion of choice should be the achievement itself and not whether it was achieved by a woman or a man, while others felt that the proposed amendment was supported by the committee because it supported women's participation in decision-making. Following the vote on the amendments, the Committee voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended amended legislation has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u41	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. On the basis of the Law on Prizes and Recognitions for Extraordinary Achievements in Scientific Research and Development Activities, the highest national awards and awards for achievements in this field have been granted for many years, and it is also true that the top achievements require a responsible attitude of authority towards them and, in particular, researchers who are their creators and ambassadors. Unresponsible to the outstanding achievements of our scientists and scientists and themselves would have been if they had not acknowledged that science was vital in previous years, especially in times of crisis, ignored. We are pleased that the negative trend is turning in a positive direction, in particular from the point of view of increased budgetary investment in scientific research and the preparation of normative foundations that will enable science and scientists to further develop and advance. We are aware that we are still a few steps away from the optimum situation, but with the measures taken, lastly with the 2018 and 2019 budgets and the added funds in 2017, we have certainly stopped the negative trend. The new law that we are adopting today builds on the already established Puhovo recognition with the Puhova Award for Life Work and the award for excellence. With this change, the Puhova Prize will be aligned with its excellence with the highest prize ever and the recognition of achievements in the field of scientific research, namely Zois Prize and Zois Award. In the SMC Group, we also supported the amendment, following a greater gender balance of the board's composition, which awards awards and recognitions. We also support such a solution today. The rapid review of the Committee's current compositions, with the exception of the current one, points to the sub-representation of women in it, and this is already sufficient reason to support the adoption of a solution. Let us also remember the last constitution of the Management Board of the University of Ljubljana. Its single-sex composition is not a good way to achieve gender equality in decision-making bodies. The fact is that efforts to play women's equal role in science have not yet achieved a satisfactory goal in all segments, and we cannot be satisfied with this situation in the parliamentary group. Unfortunately, in this case too, we often encounter poor response from scientists and too few candidates from researchers, but this is not and should not be the reason for not following greater sexual balance in the composition of the committee itself, and we also call on scientists, the leadership of universities and research institutes to do so in their work. With regard to the proposed solution that the members of the Committee cannot be appointed two successive mandates, we recall its original purpose. In fact, the urgency of the restriction allows for the provision of as many distinguished researchers and researchers as possible from different scientific fields and prevents the preference of certain scientific science or its area from being preferred over a certain period of time. Finally, this proposal has been proposed by the scientific meeting and we support it in the SMC Group. We will give support to the bill, and we believe that in the future we will also receive the outstanding achievements of our scientists and scientists, who are also grateful to them in this place for putting our country on a global scientific map. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u43	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, President. Mr. Secretary of State, once again, colleagues and colleagues! The amendments to this Act aim to pursue certain objectives, namely, to win the Puhova Prize, to change the definitions of recognition of the Ambassador of Science of the Republic of Slovenia, to set the maximum total number of awards awarded, to limit the duration of the term of office of members of the Committee to one consecutive term, to adapt the names of the committees awarding these awards, and to supplement the existing legal arrangements for awards and awards, so that prizes and awards are awarded upon verification, taking into account the European Code of Conduct for the maintenance of research honesty. We, as one of the most important ones, certainly see the introduction of this Pooh award for life's work and excellence. This gives greater importance to the transfer of scientific research findings into economic and social practice. In this way, it is in some way important that the knowledge that follows the results of science is, of course, implied and used for the benefit of all of us, which is in the economy. The draft law underlines the importance of scientific research honesty, which is, of course, also a follow-up to European standards and standards. However, as regards the limitation on the duration of the terms of office of the members of this committee, let me say that I will not discuss later, as the meeting of our Group is in progress, and we are proposing an amendment in this area to restrict the term of office of the members of the Committee not to one, but to two. This is a practice that is practical in all areas where committees and commissions are called. We personally and in the Group of Members feel that there is no reason, however, for a precedent to be here in this case if we had only one mandate. Thus our amendment goes in this direction, that the members are limited to two mandates, and of course we will also support this amendment. Of course, we welcome these changes and welcome the changes in other areas, which are followed by additional rewards and attention being paid to that part of the scientific research activity, which is then implied in the economy. In short, we will not oppose and support this law in the SDS Group of Members, as before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u45	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marinka Levičar is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellows! The first move of science is a miracle that leads to knowledge and a true awareness of ignorance, which, as a result, leads to the search for answers that contribute to economic and social development. In our view, the proposal for a new Law on Awards and Awards for Extraordinary Achievements in Scientific Research brings an important complement to the law now in force. In particular, we would like to highlight the addition of Puhov's recognition with the Puhova Life Work Award and the Puhova Award for the Supreme Achievements, which compare theoretical research work with innovation work. We must be aware that research work and the achievements of science should not, in fact, be taken for granted. Knowledge is also important, as is research. Economic growth has given rise to technological development and it is the country which must ensure the smooth functioning and promotion of the research work of appropriate conditions and resources. Although the country has provided an additional €4.5 million for research and development activities, our intellectuals in scientific research activities should continue to be motivated and better rewarded, in accordance with the work done and their achievements. In the parliamentary group, we will be happy to support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u47	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you for saying that again. Good-bye, everybody! The achievements in the field of scientific research and development activities are crucial for the successful development of the whole of society and thus of the countries, and it is therefore appropriate to grant recognition for the medium-term achievements of citizens and citizens of Slovenia in these areas. Of course, we would be even more pleased if we could follow their expectations and needs to improve their working conditions, as these achievements would be even more medium-sized and our development even more effective. However, in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Awards and Recognitions for Extraordinary Achievements in Scientific Research and Development Activities, it is primarily about trying to extend the circle of those who achieve such over-average results to the innovation area for which the Pooh's recognition will be awarded, and this recognition is aligned with the Zois Prize. This will enable innovators to receive the award for life's work and excellence. Such a proposal has already been submitted by the Engineering Academy of Slovenia two years ago, stressing that the Engineering Academy has been working for a number of years to re-industrialize or re-establish a successful industry in Slovenia, which also means the possibility of successfully integrating scientific research, the development of high technologies and the creation of high value added jobs. This law also somehow thanks the work of the Slovenian Academy of Engineering. An amendment was adopted on the home working body to introduce sexual quotas in the composition of the committee that decides on the award of prizes. Despite the fact that there was never a disputed hold on the Committee's sex quotas, this amendment was adopted by the Committee. However, there is also a need to point out that we should not go beyond the principle of gender quota awards, not by achievements that are truly above average, because in one year it can be above average with its achievements a significantly higher number of women, in the other again men. We therefore point out that the Committee itself would continue to work as professionally, at both a high level and so far, and that the most important criteria will continue to be the over-average achievement and thus also the reward of all those who actually achieve such achievements. This alone will keep us at a high level of development and also a high level of respect, not least the return of that dignity that we still earn in Slovenia after the loss of some industrial industries, which have been examples in Europe and the world. So we will support the law itself because it is certainly a great incentive for an even more successful work of scientific and research activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u49	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Ludmila Novak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Research activities are carried out within different institutions and most of the basic research activities are carried out within research institutes that are within universities, and more and more research is being carried out within companies. In the New Slovenia Group, we note that more and more companies competing for European funds, especially those for research and development, are taking decisions for their research and development departments, as there are many calls for the company to have its own scientific research department. Higher education and science are the foundation of social progress and a condition for a successful economy. In the New Slovenia Group, we advocate creating a situation for a more connected, flexible and accessible opportunity for research work for all researchers. Unfortunately, there is very little funding available for development and research. Unfortunately, the amendment of New Slovenia to increase resources for development and research was also not adopted. As the principle that science and the economy need to cooperate more closely and that achievements and innovations are expected to move faster into the economy is increasingly emphasized, the solution has been put in place to transform the Puhova's recognitions into prizes and thus, at a symbolic level, the importance of innovative activities is equivalent to that of research work. Following this amendment, the innovative activity in the Slovenian space will also be more taken into account and recognised. As in life, honesty is also important in science and research, and we therefore welcome the respect and respect for the Code of Fair Conduct in the award of awards and awards in this field. The Puhova Award for Life's Work is awarded to an individual who, through his achievements throughout his life, has made an outstanding contribution to economic or social development and to a more economically efficient society in Slovenia. The Pooh Prize for High Achievements shall be awarded to an individual or group who has made an outstanding contribution to the economic or social development of a particular area, region or country. In the parliamentary group, we support a scientific research and innovation activity that passes through universities and research institutions into the economy. Not only in Slovenia, but also in the world, we have many experts who, with their knowledge and innovations, influence the development and progress of society in various fields, we can certainly be proud of that. We will support the proposal of the novel in the New Slovenia Group, but of course we want to be respected and recognized and rewarded for the achievements of both sexes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u51	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u52	In Levica, we support the proposal of the law, whose main amendment is that, in the field of scientific research and development, the Puhova Prize will be awarded after the new recognition of Puhova. So much more so because the amendment of the Left has been adopted on the home working body that the composition of the awarding committee takes into account the sexual balance of the members. This year, there were only two women among the 29 winners. Between 2000 and 2010, the award totalled 28 and the award winners amounted to 174. The extremely low share of women's awards and awards cannot be justified in the lower scientific production of women. While this is slightly lower than in men, it is not as low as the low share of awards and awards. A number of other indicators also show that there are still obvious gender differences in the scientific research environment that are reflected in women’s neglect. Such disguised and sophisticated forms of sexism pose a serious obstacle to the scientific participation of women after a study has been completed. A small proportion of the recipients of awards and awards in the scientific and development field is thus a symptom of an unbiased patriarchal view of the role of women in society, accompanied by the process of pushing women back into privacy or domestically into the kitchen. In the academic community, the most valuable things are time and reputation. However, the distribution of these is achieved by the award of prizes and awards. In Slovenia, this is mainly the case with the award of men’s achievements, which, of course, brings with it money, prestige and a better position. In Levika, we, by proposing an amendment to the Committee in a similar manner to that of the Prešeren Prizes, ensured the sexual balance of the award-winning committee. With this change, we do not interfere with the selection of annual winners, but we only determine the balance of the committee with a view to ensuring greater gender representation and thereby a fairer and more democratic distribution of honor and reputation in the scientific community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u53	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 18. 12. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much. There are no colleagues from the SDS Group, but I think it is appropriate to respond to their amendment proposal; that is, to somehow delete or modify what we have actually confirmed on the Committee. Thus, we will not support the SDS amendment in the parliamentary group because, of course, we cannot really agree, as has already been said in the positions that we have heard about this law today, where it has already been said that we do not support simply disguised chauvinism, which happens whenever we talk about sexual balance, no matter what area it is. Especially not when you want to somehow wrap it under the pretext of the argument that our concern is primarily the ability of a work quality, the knowledge of an individual and not of course some sexual identity. I can agree with this argument in part, but – then of course this is important – that whenever we look at statistics, we can very well see that women or girls in education achieve better results both in primary education, in secondary education, in university education, which means, of course, that they achieve better results in terms of better grades, which means that, of course, they also achieve higher standards of status than boys. When this education is over, successfully both for girls and boys; and interestingly, when, for example, their career paths can even be similar, both for girls and boys, then, in fact, in girls or in women, there is a speciality, and this is a glass ceiling. The glass ceiling in the sense that the possibility of stepping on the highest step, not only on the basis of knowledge and reputation, is virtually virtual in women. I'm sorry. We live in a community where the ability of men is self-evident, while in women this ability or this ability is constantly subject to verification, evaluation and the like. And if, in spite of this verification and evaluation of a woman, some recognition, i.e. scientists in this case, I wonder why they would not be allowed to sit in the decision-making body in this way too, and say some of their own opinions, which, of course, counts. We will certainly not support the SMC proposal in the SDS Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u55	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well, we're just going to go against – of course, we're not going to support it, because you're probably going to do the same. [[…]] I was satisfied with the power on the committee, and I was positively surprised that the amendment we presented went through. It means that the awards committee is to be balanced sexually. This does not prejudge that scientific achievements should now be divided into men's achievements but into women's achievements and that we must hunt quotas in here. However, we can take one step in the direction of this change so that the work of women in the scientific sphere is recognized as must be. According to their academic achievements, women are completely comparable to men already in the course of education. But then, when we come to the recognition of these achievements in the scientific sphere or even in society at all, all of a sudden, the whole field stops to gravity to the patriarchal structure. Of course, the top of this icy mountain is also that the awards are distributed disproportionately to men and women's achievements are overlooked. But as we say, with the sexual balance of the committee that awards, we have taken, let's say, one soft step towards starting to fix this thing. Of course, it should be well placed in the research sphere and in the academic sphere, in order to resolve the issue in the root, but one small step in the right direction is not to agree that this good thing, the emancipatory thing that was done on the committee, will be drawn up at the plenary meeting of the National Assembly. Some conservatives come here with an amendment that wants to send women back to the kitchen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u57	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th agenda. I'm breaking the 9th point of the agenda. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a trade law on trade amendments and supplements. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. With regard to this bill, a group of 24 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Andrej Chuš requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Andre Couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u58	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin by thanking Members and Members of the Coalition and New Slovenia, who contributed to the signatures under the general debate and thereby strengthened the legislative process of the new Trade Act; the law I introduced in October. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, 14 years have passed since we had a referendum in Slovenia on closing trade on Sundays. Neither the left nor the right government did so at that time. And there is a question on the ground when someone will finally be responsible; if not politically, at least criminally. Members who do not take into account the referendum will of the people should, in my view, be at peace with Parliament as soon as possible. If the will of the people has not been taken into account, will the culprits who have played people's referendum will perhaps at least return EUR 4 million to the budget? I'm thinking about unions here, too. I have to say, when we collected the signatures of support with the stands in Slovenia, a lot of people said that since then they have not voted since then, because democracy, elections, referendum are all the same – everything sucks. And today, when we look at election participation, a little over 40%, we ask ourselves what is wrong with people, but maybe something is wrong with us. Allow me to thank, on behalf of both myself and Green Slovenia, all those who have supported our proposal for law with your signature. I must say that we are very moved and at the same time motivated to continue, with these efforts, by working for a Slovenian worker, irrespective of the timing of today's vote. In view of the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which we have examined in detail, and in the event of the collapse of this law in today's vote, I must say that, in cooperation with the legal profession, we will further process our proposal for a law and improve it to the extent that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will no longer be able to oppose this bill. And there's something else we need to say. For the second time, we saw the situation when so-called caviar representatives of employment sold themselves to capital and traders, just like in 2005. Their representative, Mr Rožič, just said that the donkey only goes on ice once. Apparently, Slovenian unions go on ice again and again. Let me also briefly comment on the social agreement between trade unions and traders, which I mark as a rotten compromise. This law does not provide any additional social security for traders and traders, nor does it enforce the referendum will of people, as trade on Sundays will continue to be open, every Sunday of the year, if traders have the capacity to do so, the wages of traders and traders will continue to be minimal or additional to the minimum, and here trade unions could take the example of a hospitality and tourism union that, in cooperation with their owners or I apologize, have agreed with employers in this area to raise wages of 15%. This is some real solution when a worker is also rewarded for economic growth and for good measures, but not to have a industry in Slovenia this year, we can say, a billion profits, and on the other hand, people will still work for a minimumer or a bonus to a minimumer or one to five euros more. Thus, this rotten compromise in practice definitely represents a really rotten solution that puts the worker in a worse position, even though he will appear to have some euro left to work for the holidays, but this does not follow the goals and purposes of the law that we have tabled. I would also like to point out once again that if this law is not adopted in this mandate of the National Assembly, it will certainly be in the next, of course, when there will also be several Members in our group to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u59	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u60	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, at least a few of those who are here in the Chamber! To somehow get back to where it all started. In 2003, there were unsuccessful negotiations between trade unions and employers, which essentially triggered a so-called trade opening time referendum. At the referendum held on 21 September 2003, 57.5% of voters supported the trade opening time limit, and 41.7% were against that time. The referendum was also marked by an extremely low voter turnout, since about a quarter of the voters went to the voters in 2003. The constitutional assessment – that is, it took place in May 2004, when Mercator took the initiative to review the law, he was later joined by Compass, MTS, Petrol, Era, MG Market and also by Mr Andrlon, an independent entrepreneur. The instigators at the time considered that changes to the law were contrary to the principles of the rule of law and free trade. With the same opinion – as an interesting point, the Croatian Constitutional Court also met and ruled in favour of traders, where trade could be reopened on Sundays. The Chamber of Commerce responded to this amendment, proposed by colleague Andrej Chus, that it was a violation of a free economic initiative, that it was a violation of the principles of fair and free competition and that it was principles of equality before the law. However, the Management Board of the Chamber was also united in ensuring that discussions on both working hours and working hours were necessary. The Chamber of Commerce therefore began to negotiate with the unions after that time, and it accepted, in fact, a negotiating position which has somehow deterred the government and part of the coalition from supporting this law. What is important to stress, dear colleagues and colleagues, is that I, who was somehow responsible for this law, which I have been following, have also followed the negotiations, wanted arguments for and against. On the one hand, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have somehow gone towards a free economic initiative, a violation of a free economic initiative, a violation of the principle of fair free competition, on the other hand, respected colleagues and colleagues, and the principle has come to light whether we will respect this referendum wish of people to shut down trade on Sundays. So, arguments for and against. Even those who are somehow representatives, we can say, of the free market, we have that lump in our throat when we talk about not respecting the referendum will of people. See if the majority – and in the countryside there is a problem, people, traders and merchants work for miserable wages, I myself have talked to many workers and workers, 3.4 euros gross is the average salary of the trader, even if this salary is 100 percent higher on Sundays, even if it is 200 percent higher, so it is a miserable post-work with which traders somehow – or workers in the shop are somehow trying to improve their wages. Another problem that arises on that side of traders who should be interested in having an open one is that traders in fact have no interest – neither have they somehow contacted us, me personally responsible for this law. I didn't get it until today. I can tell you, no e-mails. They didn't talk about arguments. However, I have received answers from several managers operating in major multinational companies, merchants coming in Slovenia, who have large market shares, that would essentially be closed. Interesting, including Hofer, who closes abroad and has had some time closed in Slovenia and then opened the store. So, what's going on? It happens that, in fact, most merchants work minus on Sundays. They have an interest in closing trade on Sundays, and the problem is that they fear some serious customers. So, as you can see, they're given a lot of bonus cards and everything else and they're afraid that most of the biggest or best customers would go to competition because they wouldn't have this so-called, if I say so, service that they have their own shop open on Sundays. So it is not in any way the willingness of traders to express this free economic initiative. In fact, we all kind of want politics to somehow prevent us from closing our stores because they have all the desires, all the merchants kind of want to do it. Of course, there are some other problems in the marriage novel, Comrade Cuzha. For example, I live alone in the municipality right now, we have a smaller Mercator store, salesmen tell me that they have about 600 euros of net salary in front of the room and this store doesn't have 200 square meters. So this store will still be open, and this is the problem that will come. Mercator, as you know, when he was expanding, took over a number of other shops, smaller traders and some of these traders were only named Mercator, and these shops in smaller places remained. This means that they will still be open, which means that even those who are against it, again we do not have a key argument and these trades can in fact not be kept at home. The solution we see is that most of the arguments that could be, or that we are closing trade on Sundays, is that the Constitution must be respected, that the referendum, which is a key part of some direct democracy in the country, must be respected, and that even after 14 years this will of the people is in force. If we also look at surveys of what people think on Sundays, most people still believe that this referendum will be respected. So let me say, despite the fact that you will expect the Slovenian Democratic Party as a party, where some Members feel that politics cannot interfere with free trade, in negotiations, we will somehow vote, I can say, very mixed. Most of the colleagues are in favour of closing trade on Sundays, some of the colleagues will abstain, i.e. those who are somehow representatives of the freer market, and a large majority in the Slovenian Democratic Party also think that it is a matter of respecting the referendum will of the people. If the referendum will of people is respected and, last but not least, the shift of 14 years does not affect that availability, which is also demonstrated in recent days by surveys of people and the opinion of many individuals. Therefore, as I have said, we will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party of our own free will. In the vast majority of this proposal, we will not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u61	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The darkness is all before trivial. Recent polls show that the position of the referendum question or referendum has not changed significantly to date. We estimate that still a large majority of people support the idea of closing trade on Sundays. Caring for the working conditions of traders and traders, in particular for their right to a quality leisure time per day, which is reserved for most residents and residents of Slovenia for rest and family, of course there is no question about this; the argument is on the ground and courage. We also agree with this in Desus and more than half of the respondents, because they prefer family life over a free enterprise initiative, which we estimate in Desus that it is not possible to put free enterprise initiative, initiative and, on the other hand, quality leisure or rest, but rather to connect with one another. And we'll talk about it from here on out. But the question is, when we go to a nearby shopping center on Sunday, it doesn't matter what it's called, and we see a completely different picture. Among other things, the media has presented a very interesting statement, which, according to our assessment, is completely on the spot and correct. Is it not the will of people to keep shopping on Sundays and other days off? You just have to look around a little bit and see how full shops are even on a short work schedule on a holiday, on a Sunday, on a day off or just before a holiday. A person gets the feeling very quickly, as if the next day we are facing the end of the world or a reduction, a restriction on food supply, or other necessities. The cataclysm is most sensitive in the field of nutrition, but of course there is something completely different about what is in the carts, what is in the shopping baskets of individuals, whether they are in here articles intended only for the basic needs of an individual, or whether it is a luxury. I fear that in recent times there has been less and less of this luxury and that there has been an increasing number of needs intended only for survival and basic needs. Regardless of what kind of opinion one of us will create, the common denominator is that it is very difficult to change consumers overnight or, if you want, consumer habits of Slovenians, it is even harder to determine what is appropriate for anyone. For some, a visit to the shopping center — and this is sad, in our view in Desus — is a remarkable event or even a routine practice, because it is designed for socializing, for coffee chat, for Sunday trip or for snorkeling, as well — under the notes — it is said in Slovenian. Maybe it's just a selfish act or we can attribute it to the consequences of a lack of time and a faster pace in a week when we're somehow all employees, or we're either overwhelmed or enslaved, if I may say so, by new marketing receipts and trends. To focus or focus on that key issue at the conclusion. The Desusa Group considers the law inappropriate and, of course, will not support it. Why? First of all, I must say that the proposal of our fellow Member, Chuša, if anything, encouraged, accelerated the thinking that has somehow been in the minds of all of us for a long time, and they have gone in the right direction. The result of these coordinations and the increased activities of all stakeholders involved here is that an agreement has been reached between trade unions and employers, which, of course, I must say, we clearly and unequivocally support in Desus. This agreement talks about it, it has some restrictions, it kind of restricts Sunday work, and above all, it is essential, in addition to those who work on Sundays and on the day off, an additional reward. As a result of the agreement of the end of November 2017 between trade unions and employers, the following are the solutions. It will be 15 working weeks a year, so no more than two weeks a month. Exceptions, the right thing to do, will apply to those workers who care for younger children, pregnant women and children who are sick and need special care and care. Salaries for Sunday’s work will also rise, as will wages for work on weekends or holidays. And as it is said, the law will not have any introductory, transitional, I don't know what else, a delay period, but it will enter into force as quickly as possible, this is the beginning of next year. These are the reasons that have convinced us, and this is the result not least of social dialogue. If an agreement has been reached, I believe that employees will also be satisfied with all these arrangements and will in some way be able to work in a limited way for days and weeks and at the same time – which is essential for us – they will also be adequately rewarded for their work. We would like this percentage to be even higher, but for starters it should be 100 percent on the basis and 250 percent on the start-up holidays, followed by probably even better percentages. As it is said, we will not support the bill tabled by Mr Chuš. But once again we support the agreement reached between employers and trade unions, we believe everything in favour of employees and their families, which is most important. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u63	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues - the proposaler is not in the hall! On the first page of the introduction of the bill, the proposer shall write down three. Firstly, due to work on Sundays and holidays, workers in commercial activities are denied the right to family life. Secondly, that Sunday's trade work also affects the organisation of time in other trade activities, for example, in delivery. Thirdly, the payment of Sunday's work represents for traders substantial additional costs indirectly transferred to purchases made by workshops. The applicant considers that problems can be solved by adopting a law prohibiting Sunday's trade work, more specifically, large trading centres with a surface of more than 200 square metres. It also refers to the establishment of the referendum will of the people of the previous legislative referendum in 2003. Since we have contributed our signatures to the general debate on this bill, we must also clarify our conduct. Our signatures, under the general discussion requirement, mean that now, at a time when people rightly demand from their employers decent payments, rest and at least basic stability and predictability, the problem of Sunday's, as well as the excessive, flexible and lax work in trades and other activities should be addressed more widely. They mean our belief that space should be opened not only for prohibitions but also for agreements. At the same time, such a debate is an opportunity to warn that not every seemingly generous proposal also has positive consequences. This is – and must go – for the right of every worker to pay and rest, so we understand that the debate will not only remain in the field of the trade industry, because it must not stay; that we will talk – and we must talk – about 35,000 employees in the restaurant as well as all other service activities, about all other professions where security is required or that we should be constantly available to the buyer, who is, of course, the king, that people are at work when most people are free of time. If we have free time and, of course, money, we will use it, we will want to go on vacation or to a movie, to a sports or cultural event, to lunch or to dinner. Some will also go to the theatre or museum, others will watch TV shows on Sunday evenings, live shows when friends visit us, we will also order taxis, or even order food. Whatever our leisure time may be, there is little chance that we have done this to others. This should also be borne in mind when we expect a caller at the telephone operator's call centre on a Saturday night to solve our cable or internet problem immediately; even when initiatives develop in the debate that road companies should pave the highway at night, seven days a week, 24 hours a day – there will probably be workers who will do this work. New ways of life and new opportunities also bring with them new requirements. This is a debate on how we value work and time, our time and the work of others. Each of us needs to think about this more than once when he asks others to do the work for which they are paid. It doesn't matter when or under what conditions or what kind of payment this happens. We must also admit that demand drives the supply, not the other way around. Therefore, this time, when the debate leans into the moral waters of leisure and family life, it will make sense to remind everyone to think about how their free time, money, and demands affect the work of someone else. The work that people do is varied, and it is done everywhere by workers or by people. The Labour Relations Act lays down the general obligations conferred by collective agreements. The current trade law, which the applicant wishes to amend, also suggests that employers respect, in particular, the restrictions on the organisation of working hours, rests, breaks, overtime and working hours of the umbrella law on working relationships in the preparation of collective agreements. It is in this area that an agreement has been reached which, through signatures, representative trade unions and industry workers' associations have reached which report that it is important for them to move forward. An agreement that takes account of the specificities of the sector must be the basis. Fire drills by the legislator, especially if they are tied to a specific area, usually solve little but can trigger dominoes where they are least expected. All we have achieved with the adoption of the proposed law is to close large shopping centres at the holidays, along with all the other consequences that this would bring, including the impact on other sectors and industries. Just as our efforts mean work and bread to someone else. The applicant's wishes would be met, but in particular by lowering the costs of work that should not have to be paid. Workers and workers in shopping centres really could not work and would have free time, the question is whether they would have it with whom and with what quality to live with. Could we have an ice cream, a movie, a hairdresser, a birthday party for the kids, a weekend vacation? It's about how we value the work, the time and the effort of other people, not the ban. We share the view that the time has come for new arrangements and new distributions created. In many areas, we can see that such agreements are open and concluded. We believe that partial solutions would only pursue narrow, perhaps even hidden interests, but would in no way contribute to the better situation of workers and workers, not in trade or in any other sector. The annex to the collective agreement has been mentioned, in a specific case, and it is going in the right direction, the direction of social dialogue. Much has been said in these weeks, months, about social dialogue. What is this, and what should be our attitude toward its results? Critics revolve around two extremes that share a common belief, a relationship that a conversation does not make sense that seeking common interests means betrayal or bankruptcy — depending on who you ask. Since we have always advocated a policy of agreement and discussion, critics will tell us that it is in the interest of capital, and we have to answer this with a question – is it wrong for employers to agree on higher wages, better working conditions, for more days off? And even when they fail to agree, it would be right if either side would no longer be willing to return to the negotiating table. Do we know the answer to both questions? Dialogue is the only meaningful way, questions only open up about when and how, especially how often the government should cut down dialogue. Social Democrats believe that only when the solution is well thought out can it be applied. For such solutions, we have the courage of the Social Democrats. In the case of this bill, we do not see the implementation of the referendum will of people or the actual improvement of the situation of workers and workers. We believe, however, that the right path is an agreement agreed upon by employers and trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u66	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! This crazy world, where it rushes and how fast it spins, we run from event to event, we run from one duty to another duty, and sometimes we don't even realize that time is running past us, but we are running out of time for those closest to us. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that every person needs at least one day a week to rest, and on Sunday we feel like the most appropriate day to rest. Even a well-functioning economy, including successful companies, needs workers, needs highly motivated people, and this cannot be achieved if things operate and work day after day without end and place and without rest. Therefore, I think that in any way we are turning things around in an economic sense, in a psychological sense, we always come to a simple conclusion that people need at least one day of rest and that it is because of the organisation of the nature of work, also because of tradition in Western Europe that is the most suitable Sunday for such a day of rest. Finally, in Slovenia we also had a referendum on this and at the referendum people made it clear that they want to have trade closed on Sundays, and New Slovenia respects this referendum will. The law, which is before us and which has been tabled by honourable Member Chuš, regulates the operation of shops on Sundays. However, it allows for a wide range of defined exceptions; the law still allows trade to be opened up to 6 weeks and holidays in the year, it also allows open shops to be open on Sundays if there are family trades, it also allows a number of exceptions to trades, which are large, which have a surface of up to 200 square metres in tourist centres, in the old city cores and, last but not least, allows open petrol services, i.e. their shops. In short, Cuz’s law has many exceptions. When this law began to be discussed, there were various debates at many levels about how and what to do with this matter, and I must admit that we talked a lot about these things at home, and not least, my mother works at the store, my mother-in-law works at the store, so I could say that I know what Sunday work means firsthand. As far as the profitability of trade is concerned on Sundays, both of them told me that simply a number of departments or a number of shops on Sundays are making a loss and that the most profitable in the shopping centres are inn and inn facilities. This is what some of you have also said in your discussions that this represents an event or a good example or a potential for socializing. Therefore, at this point, we can sincerely congratulate Ambassador Chuš on opening discussions on these things with this law, and not least, he also encouraged social dialogue. However, an agreement between unions and employers took place at the time of the consideration of this law. According to New Slovenia's estimates, at least this agreement represents a significant step forward and improves a certain situation in trades, and in particular in relation to Sunday work. For example, it states that mothers who are breastfeeding or pregnant must not work on Sundays. That even men who care for children under the age of 3 should not work on Sundays to ensure a better payment on Sundays, that a double payment is specified, should not be less than 6.4 euros and so on. We also enjoy this agreement that all holidays and weeks that will be absolutely free and stores will be closed at that time are explicitly listed. January 1st, February 8th, Easter Sunday, Easter Monday, June 25th, August 15th, November 1st, Christmas. These are defined on the basis of this agreement as the days when absolute trade will be closed. In short, Member Couch must be acknowledged that by means of his law, he has encouraged, however, that this point has moved forward and that after a new year the workers will have slightly better conditions. Now we come to how the New Slovenia Group will vote. We can't provide Couch's marriage of support because it still doesn't close on Sundays. According to our assessment, too many exceptions will be allowed to be misused in such or otherwise. What are we talking about? For example, Cuzé’s law provides for an arbitraryly fixed size of the store’s surface, which represents a certain limit, when trade on Sundays can still be opened. Why 200 square meters? If we look into the past a little bit and look at how this thing has happened in history, we can see that in the past one such case of an arbitrary determination of the surface has already fallen before the Constitutional Court. This was also the reason why there was then a change of arrangement, which gave the opening of trades on Sundays once again a freeway. So, the thing that bothers us is, why should we specify the exact square, when stores can be open and when they can't. Then we also find it difficult to make exceptions. Here, the whole range of exceptions, from tourist centers, to city centres, ski centers, can be listed further. It seems to us that some innovative ones that will have stores of more than 200 square metres will easily reduce trade size by certain barriers on Sunday, so that they will be below the specified 200 square meters. If I say so, something like when you sell alcohol, when you can't sell alcohol, you just pull a curtain so you don't get that alcohol. We are also concerned about the arbitrary determination of the size of trade that those who wish to continue to have open trade on Sundays will reduce trade volumes with some simple barriers on Sunday in order to reach that quota when trade can still be opened. If you finally ask me, what is actually the solution proposed by Nova Slovenija. In New Slovenia we propose that the hourly heading for work should be at least five times higher on Sundays, I say at least five times higher than on another working day. We see a much better principle that trade is closed on Sundays and that we actually allow people to rest and actually be at home; that we set the clock for Sunday work so high that trade is simply not worth operating on Sundays and that is why trade will be closed on Sundays. With such an approach, we do not need any exceptions, no arbitrary determination of the square, nothing. If someone estimates that his business is so profitable that he is willing to pay workers more than five times, it is his business, but I am sure, given the current situation, that many will see this issue in such a way that they will actually close trade on Sundays. This also leads us to believe that, according to our information, there was one of the fundamental reasons why this Cussé Law was involved, that traders simply felt uncomfortable because on Sundays there was no real profit, some even dealt with losses and wanted to transfer the responsibility for closing trade to the legislator because they were simply afraid to do so themselves. The only thing we can see that the legislator could effectively help them close trade on Sundays is that it would greatly increase the hourly position for Sunday work. Only in this way, without any concrete exceptions that could be misused in one way or another would weeks be final for many workers and traders to rest and rest on Sundays. As I have already announced, the New Slovenia Group will not vote in favour of this law, because we do not want to report that this law is completely O.K. and that it actually closes trade on Sundays. We will also not oppose this law because, however, we assess that the intention of the applicant has been good and that, by means of this law, it has encouraged many to make at least an agreement that is better for the current situation of workers and workers in trade.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! I have to say that these views that were before I'm going to present them that I've had a very difficult time listening to them. Why? Because someone might imagine that there is a major problem here, if you want, moral-ethic or laity-theological nature. Far from it! The key issue of both capitalism and another social order is, of course, political and economic issues. This is why we have Article 67 in the Constitution, we have Article 74, we have all Members and Members of the Constitution in the comic book, and if you can't read it all, at least look there. Here's the thing. Before I begin my position, of course, Mr. Chuš, who was beside the Magi. Grims's main impatience of the SDS in the face of the refugee crisis is now saving his own ass, but our position is, of course, going beyond that. In Levica we support closing trade on Sundays not for family or religious reasons, but because workers and workers deserve a regular day off on which they will not be subjected to capitalist production. By regulating opening time, you can directly improve the lives of 100,000 employees, and indirectly can also have wider beneficial social impacts. In Europe and its extension, if you want North America and elsewhere, for most people, it's a week off for such and other reasons. On a free day for rest, for activities, for family, for friends or for whatever everyone wants, including football in Maribor, workers and workers in most activities are involved. The exception should be only those activities where they perform social emergency services: appropriately paid firefighters, first aid and so on. There is no such thing as trade or retail. We can all adapt our consumer habits, and we can also set legislative exceptions that will provide basic on-call services even on Sundays. Sunday's trade work only stimulates the naked interest of capital. Saving time is one of the key weapons of individual traders in an inter-competitive fight. Despite 58% of support for closure in the 2003 consultation referendum, this area remains almost completely liberalised. The highest price for this is paid by workers and shopkeepers. There are about 135 thousand people in the industry; I'm also asking myself here what we've been doing in this country for 25 years, so that these people don't work anywhere else for better wages. We did not have economic, industrial, development and other policies. The position of workers and workers in trade is extremely difficult, working on Sundays is only part of extremely difficult working conditions. It is an exchange work, with frequent shifts in working time, that employees are virtually unable to have an orderly life rhythm. The salary for work is poor, a large proportion of employees are on minimum wage. And we recently had a minimum wage story — how much did her raise support you?Oh, my God! Left, plus the rest, till fourteen, count. At least those who are still protected by this institution, the minimum wage is meant here, because the labour force is highly exaggerated, almost a third of employees in atypical forms. The store has twice as much student work as the average in Slovenia. The government of Mira Cerar directly contributed to the deterioration of the situation for these people in the long run. In the summer of 2015 she deregulated trade professions; we were the only ones in Levica who were serious about it, then the United Left. No level of education is required for work at this time. Deregulation was not supported by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, only large traders wanted it. The government of Mira Cerar is blindly meeting the requirements of large capital. Capital in the trade sector needs a flexible and cheap workforce. Even a good decade ago, the three largest traders controlled 90% of the market. With the arrival of discounted traders, competitive pressures have increased dramatically. These discount traders extract workers and workers at an extremely intense pace of work, which can be observed by anyone who makes purchases with such a trader. I could tell a story here right now about what it's like to have a shopkeeper's period, we know about it, the media has been writing. These workers are employed for part-time jobs because they are more flexible, while at the same time working at the same pace as workers would not physically endure. Short working hours, however, often turn into a cellophane about a “family of friendly companies”. The tightening competition between large traders has moved to workers and workers. Since wages are too low, a number of workers are forced into Sunday work, which is slightly better paid; only in this way can they earn enough to maintain themselves and their families at some basic level. The trade union of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce recently concluded a deal that will partially improve the position of employees. Sunday's pay will be higher, individual stores will operate less often on Sundays. But this will not raise questions about the general framework for development in trade activities, the problem of so-called flexibility and too low payment of wages, of course, remains. The national regulation of trade opening times could undoubtedly improve this framework. In addition to the restrictions on business on Sunday, if the proposal to increase and regulate the minimum wage proposed in Levica were to be adopted, traders would, of course, have to do business differently and employees would be much better off. Opponents of regulation of operating time turn to the argument of freedom of economic initiative. In other words, the interests of capital must not be limited, but these interests are already limited in the current regime. This is where the Constitution comes in. Article 67 of the Constitution clearly provides that property has a social and environmental function in addition to economic property. However, in Article 74, we can read that "economic activity must not be carried out contrary to public benefit". The latter market fundamentalism, which only knows liberalisation, privatisation and deregulation, causes harm to society, public interest and the environment. The task of the State is to improve people's lives by its actions, and the National Assembly is the one that co-decisions on these measures. In addition to the situation of more than 135 thousand employees and their family members, a business restriction measure on Sundays would also have wider social benefits. I would send a clear signal against the culture of consumerism symbolized by shopping centres. It would shift people into more meaningful activities in terms of their personal development and in terms of sustainable environmental orientation. We therefore support the closure of trade in Levica on Sunday and will continue to support it in the future. It is not just the employees of trade and their neighbors, it is a question of whether we will insist on working days or whether our lives will be completely subordinated to the interests of capital in this regard. That's what I say on behalf of the Left, that there are currently dominant policies that look at people as if the man is the sausage that cuts himself until he gives it. There has been a lot of talk in recent days about social dialogue, about agreements. If you walk around Ljubljana a little with your eyes open – but most of you do not use public passenger traffic, which is quite scattered – you will see that in this society and country someone had to strike that someone was killed in the 20th century, that someone was killed during the war and ever. And the key question, the key political economic issue of capitalism is the relationship between work and capital. And here work with an irresponsible country usually draws short. The task of politics, the task of the National Assembly, the task of the legislator, is to weigh matters here, but not to the detriment of what we call the people in Maribor. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u70	Mr President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! A lot has been said before, so I'm just going to focus on what I think is most important. The most important thing is to actually protect the rights of workers, all those working on Sundays and public holidays. In this case, today's topic is shopkeepers. It's a good thing this topic opened up, my friend Chus. The results have already been seen, social dialogue has been reached. This social dialogue does not mean that we are all satisfied with it, but it has clearly improved the position of workers in trade. And this can already be seen as part of a result that could be achieved by amending the law. In the parliamentary group, we are of the opinion that, in view of the current situation in which we live, regulation through social dialogue is possible – and this is shown at this moment – it can deliver tangible results more quickly and in some ways more quickly than with possible intervention laws, measures, which are also highlighted by the social partners that have also adopted the collective agreement. In some ways, they also call on us to prevent the implementation of this concluded agreement in the event of a change of law or by means of sub-legislative acts. Time will tell if this agreement is really good and appropriate; and if so, the matter will likely end. If not, however, there will certainly be further efforts to ensure that, for the first time, the referendum will be put into effect and that it is also appropriate to amend the law restricting work on Sundays and public holidays in trade. However, I would like to point out that we, consumers, are the ones who decide whether trade will be open on Sundays and public holidays. If we do not cross the thresholds of these shops and malls, then, my dears, the owners of the shops and so-called capitalists, as I have heard today, will turn the keys in the lock and the story will be over. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Potočnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u72	Dear President, distinguished colleague from the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a novel prepared by the Coalition of the List of Andrej Cuz and the Green Slovenia follows the principle of people's sovereignty, as voters in the referendum have already voted on Sunday's work. However, the referendum, which took place in 2003, was unfortunately not binding, so there has not been an appropriate solution or implementation of the decision to date. The proposed law before us provides that the trader must not set the operating time of the shops on Sundays and by law certain holidays that are part of the day. Except in the case of individual shops which, according to their own judgement, may be opened up to a maximum of 6 weeks or with the law of certain holidays in the year. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we join the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft law defines a wide range of exceptions to the general objective – closed shops on Sundays and holidays; this means the equality of the basic objective of the law and the prohibition of Sunday's opening of trade. In addition, in recent weeks an agreement has been concluded between the key interests concerned. If the agreed content is agreed upon by employers and employees, we currently see no reason to insist on amending the Trade Act. We believe that the function of policy is to regulate social relations in accordance with the needs and wishes of the widest range of people, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If employers and trade unions have been able to agree, we must believe and find that such an agreement will make the best possible contribution to the achievement of both objectives. Moreover, Mr Chuš has repeatedly said publicly that he expects the law to be adequately supplemented; the additions would go in the direction of the interests of employers and trade unions that have already reached an agreement. There is no reason for us in the National Assembly to deal with a flawed law if we already have an agreement. We therefore consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we want workers to obtain more rights by agreement. So it was possible to work until 26 weeks, and after a new 15 weeks, so that we additionally protected the workers. On Sunday, the mother will no longer work with children under the age of three, pregnant women, nursing mothers or one of the parents of a severely ill child or child with physical or mental disabilities or those living alone with the child and caring for his or her upbringing and care. Shops will be closed on ten specific holidays and will be open on five holidays, which are free work daily; workers will receive 2.5 times the hourly rate on that day. The restrictions shall not apply to family companies, petrol services and similar activities, and to workers working in the framework of the final manufacturing process related to commercial activity, such as food preparation and production, transport and distribution, storage, pharmacy. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that a social agreement is a step in the right direction, so for now there is no need to amend the Trade Act. However, we will closely monitor the implementation of this social agreement. The Group of the Party of the Modern Centre has always advocated human rights and human rights; however, it is true that in some cases this is more difficult. In the event that an agreed social agreement in practice proves inadequate and defective, there is still a possibility of amending the Trade Act and banning work on Sundays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Andrej Chuš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that most of the time I was here, except for one minute when I went before Parliament to greet some of the people who came to support. I wrote all my stuff down, and I'd go in line. Initially, it was pointed out that we had a referendum on this topic in 2003 and that election participation was only 27% at the time. In any case, it was one of the referendums that he had, when compared with other referendums, relatively good and high participation. Comrade Breznik may be able to recall participating in a referendum on the provinces or a referendum on the opening of the archives of the State Security Service. I think there was 3-6%. The Constitutional Court has already defined the content of this law once, and also the constitutional lawyer, Dr Yuri Toplak, said in one statement when he was asked for a comment, that in this case the Constitutional Court has only ruled that this law is not an excessive intervention in a free economic initiative. This is an excuse or some other concern, why not support it? The only thing the Constitutional Court then repealed in the entire text of the law was one line of law. At that time, a policy in cooperation, under the pretext of an agreement in 2005 – I will not say who was in power at the time – passed a law that completely bypassed this referendum will. If we move on. According to public opinion polls exposed to the media, the support for this proposal is today much higher than it was at the referendum, between 65% and 70%. I understand some comments that people say themselves and have a referendum on Sunday, when we see how the malls are full, but that's why it's so much more interesting data that on Sundays only 8% of all traffic is generated in stores. I didn't make that up. It's official statistics. I have to say, he's obviously become a hobby to go for a walk or coffee around the mall instead of spending time on something else. I'm going to be self-critical here, or I'm not going to the mall, but I could go for a walk anymore, and I admit that. I would also like to say, although we have already had a referendum on this subject, we cannot here now talk or act like some sun kings or pharaohs to ignore people's referendum will. There were quite a few speeches about the constitution today, and the constitution also says that there is a people in Slovenia; but now, of course, there is more than a question in place – which one, whose or who, at all. When people see people ignoring their will, they themselves are very apathetic and critical. I must also say that I have been at more than ten stands where we have collected signatures of support, when we have also received the first response of the Modern Centre Party and its Executive Committee, that the Modern Centre Party supports this law, so that it is possible to adopt and implement it. At that time, it was a decision to put up stands in Slovenia where support is being collected and to create additional pressure on the National Assembly and on Members and Members. I have to say that at the time many people came to me, especially in the countryside, and they said, "I went to the referendum then, and since then I don't walk anymore because you fucked us. Probably a lot of people here have heard that argument, at least if there's something going on in the field, if it's not just being locked up in the office. There's something I'd like to say about the social partners. The social partners finally agreed in 2005. Today we are 2017. If someone has not been able to make a deal or at least talk in 12 years, he will tell you all about the ability or sensitivity to engage in a dialogue. On the other hand, this sudden speed and speed of these arrangements, which have now been agreed within a month, which I do not want to be critical of, but here something smells definitely. What, let each one think his own way. It is also important to draw attention to some of the trade unions' positions. First of all, they said that they supported this bill, even said that they did not trust politicians because they had always fucked them. They said that all the threats of larifari forgiveness were due to the shortage of at least 4,000 jobs in the entire trade sector; then two weeks later, there was an establishment which was difficult to explain, but it is obvious that Mr. Rozič said that the donkey only went on ice once; the unions or the Slovenians apparently twice, because now it goes on for the second time, hand to heart. It's not the first time that, I hope, corrupt unions or unionists have sold themselves to financial funds owned by shopping malls. The shopping malls in Slovenia are owned by foreigners, this must be known. If I go to the position of the Social Democrats. I have said that as a proposaler I was not here for one minute, and since Mrs Muršič is not here now, I will no longer argue with her. In some ways, however, a person would expect the social party not to continue to support Sunday being treated as a working day. Although hand to heart, the Social Democrats, who say they are a social party, must also set up their own mirror and look at what they have done in these years of government. They've done it to make the one who works more poor than the one who doesn't. There's something really wrong here. We have a bunch of people who are very poor, even though they work not only 8 hours a day or 40 hours a week, the middle class disappears. I say it would be right for them to ask themselves a few questions. Also, where were they when we had a vote on the proposal on minimum wage. Last week was this vote, and I supported it. If you're a social democrat and you're defending it, I'd just confirm it. I would also warn you that I do not agree to interfere with urgent and urgent jobs and professions. I know, I have also received a lot of criticism on social networks – What about nurses, my mother-in-law is also a nurse, firefighters, police? I understand that there are some professions that need to work 24 hours a day so that the country can function. This is also specifically defined under their working conditions and I agree that they are underpaid. I agree. Especially nurses, not because my mother-in-law is a nurse but because I am for them; but because I know roughly what conditions they work under. But I also have to say that we have to ask ourselves here who is working 13 days without a break. Maybe buddy Duck is the only one from here, but everyone else is probably gonna take some day off. Because I'm also looking at social networks and allow me to give a subjective position on this. You could keep mentioning it. Does this social agreement, which I have defined as a rotten compromise, solve the fact that traders and traders will continue to work for the minimum? No, no, no. Today, employees in this sector receive a bonus to the minimum. I have received many of these payment sheets, through social networks, even in the field, even by mail to the National Assembly. Today he will work for the minimum, and because he will work one holiday or one Sunday, instead he will still get the minimum wage. Some, however, boast that good employers, either because a person or a merchant of the euro or five euro, have a net higher wage than a minimum. If we brag about it, I don't know where we came from. It will continue to reach the mobile phone, the manager or manager will continue to say what he said – The next day you have to work. That's when the unions said they'd have to get it in writing. No kidding, no. We know roughly how things are going and which way they're going. So many people working in the industry, they don't even hope to expose themselves anymore because there are simple pressures, they're in the hospital for the right reasons, and the boss calls - you know, now it's time to come into work slowly, or else it's gonna be a problem. And here we see all the misery of one, and I'm not going to say the U.S.R. right now, but some exploitation of workers who are already at the bottom. As regards the explanation of the voice of New Slovenia. I accept the criticism of exceptions. I told myself at the outset when I introduced the law that if there was a political interest in the adoption of the law, it would, of course, be rectified. I highlighted exceptions and also the size of trades that would not be subject to these exceptions or later. This would, of course, be an appropriate amendment and repair and then there would be no problem with this law. Responses from the Modern Centre Party and the Ministry have also been somehow in this direction, but this has to be properly amended, corrected; but obviously this rotten compromise prevails. However, I must say that from at least one right-hand side of Parliament, an individual would expect support, as you know, it is children and families. There were also some criticisms that when I introduced this law, someone influenced me that someone had just bought me. I must strongly reject all these criticisms. If anyone has any evidence or information that someone has bought me, bribed me or paid to file this law, I ask him to say it here in Parliament today to prove it; otherwise, please excuse all those who have suggested it. You know, even a lot of Slovenian journalists, this is somehow becoming a trend – should we have heard or heard I can also say that in the hallway I heard what someone was working with in the office, who got with whom, what he gave, and could have listed, but I am against this cheap journalism, degradation and mucking people. [[…]] [[...]] Please, let's really stop this; but if anyone has any proof, please let me do it, and let's save him. But that's not it. However, since there were some parliamentary positions, we talked to traders, with those, with those; and one would expect at least some reported lobbyist contacts at the KPK. And this is where the law applies to everyone. If I continue to take the position of the Left, I thank you for your support and for your correct position. Otherwise, there was one observation between my position on migration and migrants in Slovenia and Europe. My friend Ducky, we're a little different here. As I respect your opinion, although I do not agree with it, but respect it, I am in the position that first it is necessary to take care of our own people, for our own people, then we can be solidarity with others. For me it is nothing wrong, I do not take it as a kind of racism or intolerance, as you would like to put a number on my head; and I strongly reject it. If we move on to the position of unrelated Members. I agree that this bill has done something about it. There is something about it, because we have arranged the holidays, which are done, which are not, and on Sundays will be paid a little better. It's something, but being half-breed in life isn't nice, in all things. And I also predict that if this law is not adopted today, we will be the Government's position, which we have read in detail, including with a few representatives of the legal profession, and will correct it accordingly, particularly in the area of exceptions, objectives and purposes of the law, and we will re table it. I hope then that the government will come up with another argument, because you yourself have somehow admitted that it would be appropriate to amend this law and there would be no problem. We are also discussing minimum wages. If the trade union were some serious union and fought for a worker, I would come up with words – We want a better basic salary, we want this, this, this. And here they kind of agreed to work on Sundays and holidays, and now they're kind of the happiest, most satisfied in the world. The real step would be what they agreed on and fought by the trade unions of hospitality and tourism, which will increase wages by up to 15%. This is an agreement and a solution for me that will improve the salaries of all employees in this sector. And that's the deal, not that I have some crumbs here, merchants throw some crumbs and then jump right up. And the position of the Modern Center Party. Otherwise, very properly and honestly, there's nothing to read. I can only say that I regret – I think your highest authority is the executive committee – that you have changed your decision. I'm not your member, and I can't interfere. However, I would say that, as far as I am aware of the unions, they did not exactly ask their members and members what they thought, at least not to some extent, that this would be representative. I can also say that I have received many calls, a copy of the exit statements from this union; and I myself hope that there will be a modern union on the site of this union that will really fight for it, and that it will not be as double-faced as it turned out in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u76	Mr Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings! Why we had a referendum in 2003, we know. By that time, trade unions and employers were talking and negotiating. No agreement was reached and this led to a referendum. What was the result, how many people came, we heard. This later led to some steps on the part of employers and trade unions, as well as initiatives that have also reached the Constitutional Court, decisions have also been made. I must say that there has been some debate and some misunderstanding about how and what to do in the case of opening times of trade, especially on Sundays and holidays. Let me start by saying that I very much agree with the fact that Sundays and holidays are closed. This is certainly an opinion from which I do not give up; and however we may or may not come to it, I certainly defend it. Here we encounter disapproval of this position, especially those who advocate some strict liberal position of the free market, non-restriction of freedom, free trade, initiatives; but we know that these are important economic principles of the functioning of our society, but history has already taught us many things. I'm afraid the future will be ours too, so I wouldn't lose my word on this. Nor is it unsurprising to discuss this modern consumerism, some moral assessments of how trade, merchants prepare us to spend all our days on our own, free time on consumerism, and in this way they confuse us. I think we're quite united in this. This is not a question at this point, but I think the question is whether Parliament can somehow ease these consumer practices of our citizens and citizens. If we close the store on Sundays, are we going to do less shopping? I don't know, I don't think so, at least at the beginning of this period, when we shut down trade, we probably won't change all consumer practices in terms of shopping anymore or less. But the fact is that we spend weeks and holidays on what we shouldn't spend in this society, that's just for this consumption or, above all, that I won't go into extremes too much. I think that this is harmful for our society and that in this sense it should not be a dilemma as to whether Parliament can ease this harmful activity or the consequences of this consumption. Harmfully, I said, first for consumers as such because of the bad and inappropriate habits for society as a whole; of course, it is even more harmful for all employees in trade. Interestingly, though, it was only when we found out or when some found that it was harmful for merchants. And I think it is the saddest thing at this point that we are now talking about closing trade, although Good, thank God that. [[…]] Well, I believe that it is difficult to assert this law for any other reason than those referred to by Mr Chuš, who represented his law and also encouraged the general public to talk about it. We are simply talking about bad marriage, this needs to be stressed; not now whether this initiative was important or not. It has certainly been important and I must say that I am pleased that this debate has taken place and that this initiative has taken place. Perhaps another word about this is that sometimes we compare ourselves with foreign countries and we have heard in these opening trade debates about how trade in Western countries is more closed, especially on Sundays. It must be said that this is very true. And also in tourist destinations where you would expect that stores should be open for as much as 24 hours or as we are used to, from Friday to Christmas, of course, that is not the case. We're already here in the area where this law speaks of some exceptions. I think we are already too anchored in the fact that this consumption has brought the urgency that trade is open on Sundays. In my opinion, this cannot be solved differently than simply closing trade with a cut. It is also interesting that we are still building new stores, although we have some calculations in Slovenia that say we have the most commercial area per capita. That's really unacceptable. It is my opinion that it is thus virtually impossible to accept in some society that we are now increasing these commercial areas in infinite dimensions. It would be significantly better for me that traders instead of building new trades and investments in the surface would invest in their employees, even in raising wages, so that they could increase the quality of life for their employees and that they could spend this money according to what they themselves want, because they certainly do not want to spend it working on Sundays, but probably want to spend it with their families. For all these reasons, it is clear that I would be happy to support a good law on my own that would follow this view that I have presented to you, but the fact is that this law is not. I am also examining an agreement that has been adopted and signed. I'm not going to decide if there's any compromises, maybe even rotting, it's hard to say. It's a deal and a deal has to be respected. I am confident that this agreement will not lead to the closing of trade on Sundays to a much greater extent, as we ourselves know what this agreement or this annex to the collective agreement says. If we look at history, I've already mentioned what this agreement once was. Once upon a time, there was also an agreement that was not taken into account at all, and we have come to have what we have. I think it will be the best solution to really monitor the implementation of this annex, to welcome all this debate on the proposal of the law, and that we may indeed arrive at a comprehensive marriage solution in a short period of time. I am sure that this law that we have on the bench cannot bring about is too many exceptions, inadequacies, inaccuracies, simplifications. I also doubt that the government, which by law is obliged to accept these exceptions, could be able to do so in some non-negotiable way or in some non-consensual way with, say, employers and workers in shops or trade unions. In a way, we are back at the beginning, and it is better to be at the beginning of something new than to be at the beginning of what we have today in the form of this law. However, I am certainly pleased with these discussions, and I am pleased that we are also discussing the implementation of a referendum initiative; but it is very interesting that some who have had many opportunities to take this referendum initiative in the past say today that this is not something that this law will be adopted solely because people once said that trade should be closed. This referendum wish of the people was said a little over ten years ago, but it could have been done by now. Thank you so much for the initiative that was well-intentioned. I think the government or the Ministry of the Economy is ready to participate here in the future in order to come up with a smart solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mag. Aleš Cantarutti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! You were very quick this morning, and let me read first and say the government's position. In view of the fact that the commercial activity is aimed at consumer supply, the regulation of the operating time of the shops should take into account, in addition to the interests of entrepreneurs, the interests of employees in the trade and the interests of consumers. The proposed regulation of the operating time of shops does not address the issue of on-call shops with emergency life needs on Sundays and holidays to ensure the smooth supply of consumers. The proposed exceptions in the field of tourism are also widely defined by the Government, including the fact that the proposal is subordinated to the definition of criteria and criteria for the admissibility of exemptions on the basis of which the Government would issue sub-legislative rules. Therefore, the implementation could lead to a number of abuses that have been difficult to control over the provisions of the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore considers that the proposal for a new law is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly. Now, perhaps for a little while, even in the light of what I've heard and what I've said so far. I believe that this debate will go on in a similar tone. The social agreement, I can say, is a compromise, but I believe that the law will still see a change, or I think the next government will be dealing with it. The change in a careful, broad social dialogue, including taking into account the changed social relations in society, as Dr. Trček spoke about, we must agree with this; on the other hand, taking into account the developments in our neighbourhood, the environment, we must also adapt to this. I am confident that there will be a change to this law in the near future, of course, a change that will also be legally appropriate and achieved in some broad social dialogue, in the well-being of sellers, traders and also the people for whom we adopt these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u80	President, I thank you for the opportunity to discuss that you have given me your word. I very much welcome the representatives of the Ministry, as well as all the colleagues and colleagues who propose this law! At the outset, let me say that I understand my colleague, Andrej Couch, that he is dealing with this bill; I understand that he wants to confirm himself. And I must say, Andrei, even though this law will not be adopted, you have achieved your purpose; whether it will be enough or not, this is a question for a million euros. I'm going to start where my colleague Franz Lai's position ended because I thought it was very weighty or reasonable. Mr. Lye said that we were telling the merchants ourselves whether they would be open or closed on Sunday. And by doing what we do, we let them know that we simply want Slovenians and Slovenians to open their stores on Sundays. And first, I'll tell you my personal position. I don't need an open shop on Sunday. I will not say that I never go to the store on Sunday; but I advocate what workers and workers who are employed in commercial companies want to be at home with their families. In view of our consumer habits, this is simply and simply impossible for them. When on one occasion, just now, when colleague Andrej Chuš began this activity, I read a survey of respondents, among other things, in two cases I noticed that individuals said they were visiting a shopping centre with their family on Sunday morning, and then they had a lunch at the mall. See, that's something that weighs someone off. It is completely different for me personally – I want to sit with as many members of a relatively small family as possible on Sunday for my own table. I always fail, but Sunday lunch must be more or less strict in my home dining room; for someone else things are important. Now let's think back a little bit. You have already talked about this to individuals, and I think the colleague mentioned it in the debate, but it was also said in her opinion that we were at one time with a very important date for me, 21. 9. 2003 were at a referendum where we decided that on Sunday trade would not be open, where trade could be open and under what conditions trade could be open. In fact, there was low electoral participation in this referendum, and we know that there were even fewer nationals and citizens who decided on the basis of the question raised. The participation at that time was 27.54%, 57.53% and 41.47%, with almost 446 000 voters. Yeah, that was the pointer, but then things came up in the Constitutional Court, and we know what happened in the Constitutional Court. These restrictions, which in some way were also written down on the basis of the referendum, were deleted, Article 17, paragraph 7, was repealed, the restriction was simple and simply no longer available. For some time now, things have been going on in the public, even today, and even on the bodies that have already been done, we are in some way encouraging Slovenians and Slovenes to think about this issue; and this kind of agreement has happened between trade unions and employers. Yeah, there's a deal, Andrey's got an expression for it, and I'm not gonna repeat it. It is true, however, that before the law itself, the question is how many arrangements were made at the time. Whether it will be some new union, as Andrei predicts, I don't know if he'll be more committed to working for the workers is another question. But I'm going to touch one more thing. We all go to shops and meet different workers and workers who are employed in the store. I have had several conversations with a lady in Ljubljana who has just made me aware that I am a Member of the National Assembly. I tell you that she has always told me about the salary, the lady has had and has a minimum wage, but not the minimum wage, the employer still has to pay her to get the minimum wage. She works on Saturdays and Sundays for minimum wage. How can multi-member families survive with their father’s and mother’s minimum wage? That is why we also supported the United Left in Desus when it recently proposed a change in the minimum wage. But at the same time, this lady told me that there was enough money for the retirement of the former President of their company's administration. Workers, while workers cannot be guaranteed minimum wages, I cannot personally agree with such matters. I will not support such a law as is proposed, but I am in favour of closing trade on Sunday; let them close on the basis of a referendum that we will show ourselves, so we will not go to the store; and that those who give work and those who take the job will negotiate with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, then Mrs. Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I have to give Luke some time, I'll be relatively short. First of all, why do people go shopping on Sundays? Why do they go to the grocery store for lunch? There are many pensioners in Maribor who are warm because they have too low pensions to smoke at home; they also walk because they do not have enough money to buy a newspaper, and they read it there, and many walk because food is so expensive, and the one who is at a discount that day in Spar or elsewhere is cheaper than they would have prepared it for themselves. These are the facts. From the SD's point of view, it was kind of the case if the traders weren't working on Saturdays on Sundays that they wouldn't have ice cream. People don't have wood. People don't have a knack for it. It doesn't take me a week not to get three, four things when people actually talk to me about these things. Today I'm trying to work on one of these things -- someone before work, they shut off his electricity, the socialists say they're going to pay, they're going to put him on the power grid, and they're going to freeze him. That's why people go to stores. Second of all, it's a personal story. And with a member of the Modern Centre Party, I was with a brother and sister on the start of a family business. Shop with sports equipment, location, rent, apartment. Unlike Mr. Tank, who likes to stuff me, I know what it means to kick like a black animal. I've been working my shift on the FDV, working all day at the family firm, like most family companies, I've never paid any of the payments as it is. But there were several times when we didn't have electricity, and from my savings, I gave money for the workers. I am a doctor of sociology, but I also have this experience. I also know what it means to have a few hundred thousand euros in stock at the start of the winter season. I know what it's like to sleep for four hours in the summer and kick ass all the time. I know what it means to have four days off for a year. After all, my ex-partner and I broke up because we didn't have anything to live for. I also know what it means to have bikes in a parking lot in the summer, and your entrance cost is higher than Interspar's exit cost. I know a lot of things, but I'm not a doctor for everyone. And these stories that we're going to go here, some stories when you want to make fun of them, that's why Levica didn't sign for the general debate. The energy concept needs to be discussed. Here, however, it is very clear what time it is, and action must be taken. And when I listen in the opinions of the type “now they have agreed in social dialogue that nursing mothers who have children under the age of three will not have to work on Sundays”. Hello! Good morning! And I could count it. I read some of the Guardians back on the train today. You'll tell me what this has to do with the store. Sharp ris and Child Vortex. Right-wing government in England, 700,000 new young people and pensioners on the brink of poverty in the last few years. University students failed by rip-offs. In four, five years, the number of student loans increases by 100%, jumps to 200%. We've had some discussion here about, as you said, controlled Uberization. What we are talking about is a political economic issue. In Austria, food is about as expensive as ours, determined even cheaper, we have the same discounters, and comparatively, merchants and merchants do not earn well, and they have twice as much wages. But with us, the same merchants, because of this policy, of course, allow it, are taking profits abroad. This is the difference between GDP and NNP, which is increasing in us. I'm coming from Maribor. One year Henkel pays millions, the other year, because it's a little global, it only pays 100,000 more. These are things that we should actually be dealing with. It's just for the end of Luke's time. I am really not a man, I have said why, who would defend and defend Mr Chuš here his arguments; but when the Party of the Modern Centre starts telling me that this is a bad marriage, and up and down, this is the first reading. In the Modern Center Party, you have the right to export, and the vast majority of your laws, when I read the Law and Legal Service, are such a sage that someone who plays football wouldn't even be able to give a car. Please! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please. Mr Jani Möderndorfer should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I'm also against the fact that all stores are open on Sundays. Why? Because we all know that nothing is so urgent that we should buy it on Sundays, except the cure. We can buy anything else sooner or we can postpone it to later. I also supported the consideration of this law myself because I believed that it was addressing all the essential issues and actually closing trade. However, when we examined the law in more detail, we found that there are so many exceptions that many manipulations are possible. A lot of side exits that happen to us a lot. Although I have opposed or advocated respect for the referendum will of people and would actually be closed on Sundays, I have concluded that at this point this agreement may be much more tangible between unions and employers because it lists the days on which the trades must be closed; and it also provides better pay for employees and more protection for workers. We all agree that wages in stores are very low, bad, and I am also often saddened by traders who work all the days of the week, and at the end of the month it is with all the supplements for that minimum wage. Of course, this is our general problem when people who work are underpaid and on the threshold of poverty. We are trying to solve this problem in our own way, one by lowering VAT, one by raising minimum wage, we have proposed a thirteenth salary that would not be taxed, a higher net salary on equal gross wages and so on. We are all aware of this problem of poverty in Slovenia, but unfortunately we do not find a common language enough to actually find the right solutions. Even in this law, we are all aware that we do not have to go to trade on Sundays, but unfortunately we have gathered too little energy to make the law better in the future; and in this consideration, we have also decided that we would rather support this agreement, but that the law in the future, if this agreement does not take place, will not be followed up or will be played in any way, will have to be set free weeks. Even though we support the economy, the economic initiative, because we know that this is the best social policy, I asked myself why trade in Germany can be closed in such a good economy. Even because of a better union agreement than we have with us, it may also be because of the awareness that every person needs a one-day-a-week rest. By no means, then, one day a week is not the same as Sunday’s rest. I remember my student days very well when I had to go back to Ljubljana on Sunday afternoon, because the train and bus journey lasted forever; and I was so sorry that I couldn't be home with my family because Sunday afternoons were the most beautiful. That day, Sunday, when the children are at home when we receive visits when the family meets, there is no way to replace them with the second day of the week. Of course, when jobs are essential, we all know that in hospitals people get sick on Sundays. On farmers, too, we sometimes clean up hay on Sundays because the next day will be rain. Every profession has some special features, but where there is no need, we could also, with more human approach and understanding of another person, the needs of other people, our fellow citizens, with only a healthy farmer, move much for the better. I don't go to the store myself on Sundays, and I'm tempted when I really need something. Fortunately, my husband always holds me back, so I leave very rarely, and even then I don't think I should. However, the initiative of this law, which was put forward by my colleague Chuš, is good, because the debate has started, some progress will be made; probably not enough, not as it should be, but things have moved. Public opinion research has also shown that most people do not feel that trade is open on Sundays. This agreement, concluded by traders and trade unions, means protecting traders themselves because we find that there is no profit on Sundays as expected. They fear each other's competition and, therefore, by this agreement, which protects workers, they have also protected themselves. And by not going to the store these days, we too can help to close the shops on other Sundays and holidays.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Chuš asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u86	Thanks again. Thank you to all previous speakers, the majority of the coalition, who have shown a great deal of understanding. Of course, I regret that, according to our views, we are not going, obviously, to a second treatment where this law could be duly amended, as envisaged. Once again, I accept the criticism that there are too many exceptions to marriage. I agree. But as an unrelated MP, you can't work as an expert in legal miracles. As a result, there was also a strategic decision at the time when the law was put in place to make it as wide as possible and then, if political interest were to be exercised, this would be duly amended. And that was the purpose and the desire. But now you can see that this agreement of the social partners, which I will always claim to be a compromise, because the predecessor just told me that this social agreement is much better than the law because it foresees less exception and so on. But remember, I have an article from the Journal of Work, a statement by Mrs Marica Lah, President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, citing: “This does not mean that stores will only be open 15 weeks a year. Traders will be able to keep open all weeks of the year, but they will have to have enough workers to respect the restrictions." Previously, it was also said that obviously every store will now be open 15 weeks a year, but that's not the case. Trade will continue to be normally open with this agreement. It only changes about the holidays. And that's what I'd say. The social partners are against the bill because they say it allows too many exceptions. But look at it, a fraction, a social agreement between unions and merchants allows for more exceptions than the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u88	Nice hello to you all! I have to say that I have been waiting for this debate, because I was not one of those co-signatory who would require this debate today, which we have. But if we already have it, I will take the time and try very systematically to analyze why this law sucks, why such laws should not come to the National Assembly, and why did Mr. Chuš even think of taking away this gift that came to him from heaven itself, so that he could deal with some matter and look for what everyone wants before the elections, these are election votes. One time he even spoke, a little awkwardly, very cautiously, because he did not want to be like some who used this word relationship, but nevertheless said what was right to be recorded on electronic and printed media. You know, it's family and kids. He said it very modestly and carefully. Well, it's, for the first time, reckless, rude and unworthy that someone connects trade and children and family. This is a recipe used by extreme right - wingers in this country to stop human rights. Let's go in line so it doesn't look like I'm just hitting on my friend Chuchu, who in this case I'll congratulate him only for choosing the right niche, but everything else sucks, what he does. First the referendum. Reference to the referendum that was consultative and today talk about some four anchors and how this referendum would not have been successful. If we look at the data, even the 2003 referendum would not be a successful referendum if the rules we have today in the Constitution were to apply. It voted just over 250 thousand for, 180 thousand against. If we wanted such a marriage to be successful, we should have over 340,000 votes. This means that it was one of those laws that revolved around mass in the referendums at the time, remember the telecommunications, mining, and railway referendums we had, which no longer had any serious visits. That's why these guards came to the Constitution so that we wouldn't find such heroes as ourselves among us, Comrade Chuš, to produce such inappropriate questions. Inappropriate issues, however, are only from this point of view whether this is appropriate for the State to regulate. Not to say it's an inappropriate question to talk to me about whether it makes sense or not. As we are talking today, I will count a number of reasons why the state cannot regulate this. One of the reasons is for sure an interference between the social partners, because in such a case we no longer need social partners. Then let's just say that all of these things, like they used to do in communism, we're going to be fine with the laws, we're going to prescribe them, we're going to normalize them, we're going to have a little bit of a perestroika; we're going to have some perestroika. Everything we've escaped from some demands would kind of like to be classified. The second reason is for sure that we can't and it's not right to work instead of unions. Let the unions do their job; and this is all mathematics, there is no one else. When the union fails to perform its tasks, the National Assembly must intervene in the minimum wage, and Sunday's trade must do anything else. Let them deal with each other. The third thing that seems very important to me is this one, one of whom will say that traders themselves are asking us to regulate it with the law and close the Sunday trade. Excuse me, there are only two merchants who want to do this right now and two who don't; and that's a fact. Protect who? Some merchants who are called Slovenian; but one who is not Slovenian would like to be considered Slovenian and another who are not Slovenian and would like to say that this will not happen?Oh, my God! They have very similar problems in Croatia. Recently, 18 years ago. 12. 2017, I read: »Lidl threw a glove at the competition: it will not work for three days holidays.” What does that mean in other words? Everywhere, Lidl gave an answer after all the shops – because they have a very similar war – We will close for all the holidays, we will not work for three days. We'll close the stores, and now let's see these heroes who say they want to close this store on Sundays. This is about the fight, the competition between stores. Next thing I know, it's inappropriate. We all have shopping centers ahead of us – Spar, Mercator, not to list everyone. Inside we have different shops, service activities. And what happens? We also have in-house guests, but in this country the inn can work 365 days a year whenever it wants to, it sets its own schedule. But if he accidentally crosses the door of the mall, he will be stopped by Chuše's ideological proposal and he will say, "No, no, my dear, you fit into the store and you won't work here." Unless he's the only jerk who's gonna be inside the center who's gonna pay all the costs to open the center and his lonely restaurant is gonna work because he's not a salesman and that's not what he's gonna do. Of course, that logic won't hold. I'll be more specific. If we don't go to the centers, why don't we just tell the masseurs on Sundays that they're free and they don't have to work?Oh, my God! Still, we do massages on various spa issues. Because this is about families and kids, or what?Oh, my God! And you can interfere in this field. Please, that's the way to think. It's very abominable. It doesn't lead anywhere. Not to mention all the other service professions that Chuš does not fight for or defend. Interesting! Why doesn't he advocate for those Asians that we now have more and more, who, poor thing, massage or no one controls them? Why wouldn't anyone ban it on Sundays? I'm going to give them a little bit more to see what absurdity is coming from such a proposal. He's done something like this before. Dude, you can't remember that, '80s, I don't think he was old at the time, he was very young, I don't even know if he was born, I don't know. That's not what I do, but they'll explain it to him older than him. In the 1980s, there was a very beautiful sequel, and all the Slovenians in Yugoslavia loved watching it. Well, it wasn't a better life, but it was a sequel to the Dynasty. It was all happening in Detroit. By the way, it was one city that had already collapsed because the competition had worked. The whole town went bankrupt. Now they're getting on their feet, but this sequel was mostly about that, because they were selling some idiots and advertising about how rich people live and deal with each other, they just didn't have to do anything. Where's the comparison to the store? My dear fellow Chuš, you will not believe this, but in Macedonia this dynasty was banned in 2006. You know why? Because she offered false hopes. What do I have to tell you? Of course, we do not live in a country where we will dictate to people the way of life, the way they should live, and the way they should spend their free time. Yesterday we determined how much Slovenian music they must listen to on the radio, today we will tell them how to behave on Sunday, tomorrow we will tell them what to watch on TV and what artistic performances are allowed and which not or how many Slovenians must be, because it is too foreign. The following morning, however, we will tell them how to walk on the road or what to do during the week, since we have already told them the weekends. Excuse me, I will never personally agree that the logic of a free decision, what a person should do in his spare time, should be replaced by generally standardised and prescribed cultural practices. I'm sorry. I'll never accept you as a liberal. Never! And more importantly, it is not true that we are discussing what family and children will do. We are opening up very clear ideological questions, which, by the way, opened up at the referendum at the time, only with this difference, that there is now a number of silences, both frivolous and past errors, which were very silent at the time. You were not present when we discussed the subject — and they were very hot. It was said very clearly, on Sunday it is known what is done — getting up, washing, praying, going into obstetrics, and going for a walk with these nebulos. Please! Don't make lives and tell me what I'm going to do on Sunday with my family and what's good for my child. The Church, not the state, will not talk about it, but it will be up to the parents themselves, at home. He will do what he has been taught by his parents; not what the state will dictate to him. These are ideological questions. Today are the questions, and tomorrow is the next one. The church has already become overly involved in these ideological issues in this national assembly. Sorry, mate. You're young, but you don't understand, because your older colleagues are going to explain to you what the problem is, or you're going to experience it on your skin sooner or later. I won't let my sex life rule me the Church. And he does it all the time; first with the sex, then he gives me what I do on Sundays, and tomorrow, what I'm going to hear and what I'm going to read. Finally, you refer to the following things: in Italy, in Austria, in Poland Forgive me, these are the countries in which I do not want to live with their logic and do not want to take over their patterns, their habits, so do not mention them to me how they are arranged there. And don't make international comparisons, I don't want to have these cultural patterns. Listen, you know what's rude to laugh about this issue all the time, but you don't really look at the depth of the question you've opened. Today in Parliament, we are just discussing and it is right to discuss. I'll tell you what the problem is. It is not a problem for workers, it must be regulated by collective agreements, it must be regulated by trade unions, it must be regulated by contracts as is necessary. Do they deserve more money? Of course you did! And you're not gonna believe a lot of workers are still asking today if you could work on Sundays because it's better paid than during the week. Or is this Sunday's work, because more is paid, justified and well paid, but this is another issue; but let employers and workers do it, not you, but I, the government. That's what they're supposed to do. And the next thing that's problematic from the point of view of your marriage is the next problem we've had since 2003. We'll make exceptions. Well, let's see how we can make these exceptions. Do you know how the discussions went down at the time? How big are those on-call stores that will offer these foods and so on? And then they made up – a store that's up to 200 square meters tall can still be open; anything that's more than 200 square meters can no longer be. Then, inexorably, they solved solutions in such a way that some partitions on Sundays would reduce trade to 200 square meters, with some stupid curtains, as they do today for alcohol at gas stations. What's a tourist destination? From 2003 to today, what is a tourist destination has changed. You won't believe it, but Ljubljana is the most visited tourist town in this country. What does that mean? To make an exception in Ljubljana. Where are the biggest malls? In Ljubljana, so they'll all be open. So the law makes sense, stupid, if you ask me, because it just doesn't rule out these exceptions. These exceptions, I'm sorry, do something else — people will still buy food on Sundays, if that's what you want or don't want. By decree, we will redirect them to petrol pumps, where food is essentially more expensive. You're gonna say it's just food. I'm asking you nicely, within a year, you'll also find slippers who will live among them, so they can buy slippers, because the pumps will make this business happen. Petrol's already done, and not just Petrol, but all the gas stations have made the store a long time ago. Sorry, they only do more traffic by selling at the store than by selling gas. And this portion is absurd. This means that there is no purpose at all in what you want to achieve, no, because they will still go to the store. In the end, they will be told differently; you will not believe — the pumps; but the shops. And they'll find a way to improve accessibility, commodestity, what all will be offered. Suddenly, next to the station will begin to grow service activities, which will suddenly find you sleeping next to the pump and so on. All to attract the buyer, the human imagination has vast limits, believe me, I've said a lot of things today that are fantastic to hear, but tomorrow it can be realized, precisely because of these crazy proposals. If I divide what dimensions your proposal illustrates. It represents four different dimensions. The first dimension you advocate is certainly ideological and nothing else. The fact that you're telling me now that you're worried about dealers, and all the other professions don't bother you, I just don't believe it. So I know it's an ideological question and nothing else, which is very dangerous. The second dimension is the employer-employer. Who's handling these things? The third dimension is certainly a trade war that is actually happening, and this is said to be nothing more than a mere competition in Slovenian. You know very well that any merchant who only has a little mathematical logic working in his head would have closed down his shop on Sundays because it's just a burden and a cost. He has to pay, he has to cover the operating costs and everything. But he'll sell the same as before, according to your logic. But what happens? That only one store is open on Sunday, he starts losing customers, and you forget that, and you don't tell that anywhere in your marriage, shopping habits are the power and weapons of all stores. If I get used to one store and the shelves, how things are stacked up there, I don't care about other stores anymore because I spend too much time. And that's why stores don't all shut down unless everyone makes a deal at the same time, which they won't. Is it the country that has to cut into this? No, no, no. And not again, never. Because when it starts doing this and once it does, it will be tomorrow, in the next House call or later, the state and government will start dealing with ideological issues that are not concerned at all, and with the regulation of various matters in this society; and I will no longer be free. Economic freedom also means human freedom in a variety of ways, but it's a dimension that you no longer understand, because you only look at family and children, because that's what this is about. Isn't it? And the last dimension is this dimension that I keep repeating. I must say, I've read quite a few articles on this subject. In the Journal, there was a column by journalist Tatjana Pyhlar, and I'll quote, and she got a comment. She tells her thoughts in this comment on what she thinks about these stores, and then she says: “A new player of Sunday’s ping-pong has entered, Member Andrej Chuš, a young man who was only 13 years old in the 2003 referendum and who was shown Mary herself during this dispute between traders and trade unions.” Why Mary? After last year's break-up with Janševa SDS, not to read any further, because this is not even my intention to go so far as to discredit you, there was really only one problem – how you will achieve your recognition. I am not against you fighting for your recognizability, and I will be happy if you are elected to the next parliamentary term; but, kindly, I ask you, not on topics that are extremely dangerous for a long time, but even though they work at the beginning honest, honest, how will we achieve that the Slovenians will have a day off on Sundays. Sorry, it's our day off, we already have it today, but without anyone wanting and hoping to interfere, and on behalf of the state, to tell me if I can go to the store on Sundays or not. Secretly, in this way, he's going to say that they're suffering workers; forgetting that there's a trade war going on, and at the same time, you're picking up political points. It's cheap, it's demagogic and it sucks. This is not what good Members do, at least not in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Chuš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much. That's what I have to respond to. Although he finally said that the good, quality Members do not do this, but I think that his predecessor's debate went in a completely different direction, we can say even in the direction of rudeness and discredit, but I will not go into it. When I was preparing for today’s meeting of the National Assembly, I was very happy to see my colleague Möderndorfer speak. This somehow means that this is the real topic to be defined and that it has also taken his attention. That means it's a big topic, I can even say I'm honored. But if we move on, because we're not going to go down to this level. Why did I say, "Be careful, it's about the kids." Not because I would use this as an argument why I am for this, but only because some of those who have fought many times in front of Parliament for the past five, ten years, in Parliament, everywhere else, in forums, in social networks, have just come down that they must be consistent. And if they supported this in 2003, but not at the same time today, it is obvious that they need to be reminded somehow of why and with what arguments they were defending it at the time. The state regulates the opening times of trade in many places. In Austria, Germany closed trade on Sundays and in Hungary opened trade last year. I don't know which one of these countries is my colleague Jani's role model; I think Hungary doesn't care if he says he's such a liberal. I also cannot understand how colleague Möderndorfer can know what the views of certain traders are about this law. Did you have any contact with any lobbyist? I don't know what kind of positions the merchants had, except what I heard in public from the Chamber of Commerce. I also hope that this aggressive act against me is not related to the entry of Petrol into the sponsorship of the Union Olympics basketball club, which I also support as a Štajerec and hope to return to the old days of glory. But I have a feeling that this aggression is also related to this; because we are all politicians and we know that there are no coincidences in politics. False hopes have also been promised by many of the politics of the Modern Centre Party, and I believe that I am very correct today. Some politicians of the Modern Centre Party have promised many but false hopes. Today we see that these were false hopes. Are we going to lock them up and ban them today, like they did in the South in 1980?Oh, my God! I don't know, rhetorical question, but answer it by yourself. When I got the criticisms, why first the merchants; you have to start somewhere. If you had a referendum on this and if you somehow know how to separate emergency and emergency professions, damn it, then you know where to start; because you're yelling where to start. I agree, however, that somewhere must be started and continued. And that's what we're gonna do. I also support the good proposals of the Left, Desus, the Coalition and former parties, and I do not see any problems here. But if I've ever interfered with who someone is sleeping with, then I'll say that maybe it is; but I think we have a lot of other important problems today in Slovenia to deal with. Ignoring the will of people and the referendum is also more important in my opinion. Why was I laughing at some remarks? I laughed because it's because of ideology that I'm in this bench today and not a few more places forward. And now I'm here to chat about some ideological themes and passwords, please! It's true that I am, you'll say "freak" or "sniff," but I already have some experience. If we talk about intervention in a free economic initiative. The Constitutional Court has said that this is not an intervention in a free economic initiative. Now I don't know if I'm going to be a master of intercultural management, according to local social science – I don't want to insult anyone here or randomly choose because I don't know your education – is that your position? I don't know. Of course, everyone has a point of view, but the Constitutional Court has said everything they had to say about it. And don't put yourself here again in the role of the king of the sun, that we're all other losers, but you're the smartest. You're gonna say it's true, because every political action is about getting people's support. I never deny it, of course it goes and the purpose is to get people's support. Isn't that the job of all politicians? I don't know. Let me put it this way. If we fall, we will fall upright; but I will not change five parties and be a political migrant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u92	Dude, you had most rhetorical questions, and I'm not even gonna answer them because you seem to have answered them in advance. But I owe you two very clear answers. First of all, if I'm the king of the sun, then we're all kings of the sun. In Parliament – you can see that it is round – we are just talking, giving different opinions, opinions. If you've been touched, I hope you'll think more about what to invest in the future. But I'll give you one very clear advice about contacts. If you have any information that anyone has met and lobbied, no one would report it, please, if you do, not here hinting at your colleagues and colleagues, who have bad contacts and who doesn't. I do my job as it should, and I am very exact, and unlike many, I report what is necessary. But I totally agree with you. Petrol Olympia needs to work, because it's the best.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u93	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Mr Luka Mesec and Mrs Andreja Potočnik should be prepared. Mrs. Popotat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! 21. 9. In 2003, citizens voted in favour of a referendum on the opening times of trade. The referendum question was: “Are you in favour of establishing in the proposal of the Trade Act that shops for emergency life items are opened up to no more than ten weeks a year, with the exception of petrol services, shops in hospitals, hotels, airports, border crossings and railway and bus stations, with a limited area that can be opened without restriction?” The State referendum did not respect it. That's unacceptable. As a lawyer, I do not believe that it is permissible for the state of referendum to disregard citizens' decisions, but to succumb to the pressure of capital that oppresses human rights. This is also a matter of disrespect for the General Declaration on Human Rights, and I will say a few words about this later. The law, tabled by Member Chuš, has sparked many debates in public. Certain people have taken the stand to support the law and are determined against it and want to keep the stores open as before, all the days of the week and as many hours as possible, from morning to night. Everyone has their own view and right to think so. Yesterday I spoke to several people about this issue, and one of them replied to me that trade in his opinion should be open. They have to be open to shopkeepers in this way to raise their wages because they have lousy wages. And that's actually true. Workers work for 3.4 euros in gross hourly wages. This is such a low salary that they usually do not reach a minimum wage. By doing so, it is humiliating for these people to solve the problem of this miserable wage, which sometimes does not reach a minimum wage, and I think that workers in trade should earn more than a minimum wage for all full-time workers. We have already discussed the minimum wage in this National Assembly and found that it is too low and that this needs to be regulated. The minimum wage must also ensure, under Article 23 of the General Declaration on Human Rights, the decent survival of the worker and his family. This is, in fact, often a questionable thing or a matter for us to deal with. I would add another sentence here that I am not just talking about traders, because this law applies to traders; otherwise I am interested in all workers who work for minimum wages and cannot live properly because they are too low. I'd like to say a few more words about Sunday work. I believe that every man, every worker, not only earns, has the right to one day of work per week. Why? To take a breath from hard work, to gain new strength for a new week of work, even to devote himself to his family, children, his partner, to be able to go to nature or mass, to those who attend Mass on Sunday, that is their right, and then to have a good lunch with all family members. Here I would also recall Article 24 of the General Declaration on Human Rights, which states: “Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including a reasonable limitation of working hours...” And this should also be taken to heart and seen when talking about opening time in stores. And when we claim that all the days must be open, I know, because I am quite older than Mr. Couch, I know how it was when we had our stores closed on Saturday afternoon and closed on Sunday, but of course we had certain stores on duty in hospitals, in separate city quarters, I speak for Maribor, it must have been the same in Ljubljana. People who had forgotten something or did not really have time during the week could go to the store on Sunday. And that would also be guaranteed in the future, so that not all stores would be open. That's my opinion. Also, when we say that other services, which must be available to us citizens on Sundays, are available. Of course, I also know that we have doctors, that we have nurses, that we have other staff at the hospital, for example when I'm sick, that I'm going to have a stroke or anything to help me when I need it. That we also need cops and so on and so forth, but in my opinion, we really don't need to trade from Monday to Sunday, from morning to evening. That's why I would say the following in the end. Respected and respected, we must decide whether we will insist on working free days in this country, or whether we will submit ourselves to the interests of capital and continue to beat Article 24 of the General Declaration on Human Rights. However, I certainly cannot agree that we do not respect the decisions taken by citizens in this country at the referendum. And I'm going to add this. I am pleased with what the Government representative said today in this National Assembly that the Trade Act should be amended. I'm sorry that this government can't do this anymore, at least that's how I understood that the next government should do it. The fact that the government has learned that the Trade Act should be amended means a lot to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u95	Mr. Luka Moon has the floor. Prepare Mrs. Andreja Potočnik and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Mr. Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. I will, of course, support the marriage. But I will support him for the following clear reasons. First of all, because we live in a world that makes us all work from morning to evening. In fact, we're becoming people who live just to work. And as a left-wing party, as a socialist party, a party seeking conversion, we have one of the first requirements to reverse the relationship between work and life – that we will work to live; not that we will live just to work as we do now. Another time. I will support it because it is not fair that merchants, merchants and all those employed in the trade are practically on the minority. And if you ask them why they work on Sundays, they'll tell you why they land on Sundays, they'll tell you that simply because Sunday's work, which is better paid, is a condition that they even get a decent salary at the end of the month. And this is not solved by continuing to force them to work on Sundays, but by increasing the minimum wage. Third time. I will support this because, as we have already heard from many other speakers, there is absolutely no need for trade on Sundays to be open. They're not emergency centers, they're not emergency medical centers, they're not paramedics; they're shops. And here I have heard Members of Parliament, who virtually all of you have said that you serve only exceptionally on Sundays. And I don't see any reason why that wouldn't be normal. After all, this is the norm in Austria, Germany, Switzerland, and any other country by which we like to imitate ourselves. Part two of my debate will go as a call to the coalition. In the coalition, you have contributed signatures to the general debate on this law, and we are not in Levica. But we didn't exactly because we expected what was happening today to be signed, and then you would say, "Yes, because we wanted a discussion about it, but this law is not good enough, so we're going to reject it because it's not suitable for further consideration." That's not how you do it. When a coalition brings a marriage, we always read it in Levica, and then we say: We are in the first reading, we will support it, or we will abstain because we believe that in the second reading it is yet to be corrected. You can look at the magnetograms from last week, we've done so in a few laws, and we stick to it on a regular basis. And if we fix it in another treatment, we support it, otherwise we don't. And even for this marriage today, you can say that it is too loose or that it will lead to abuse, as Mr Cantharutti has said, but, excuse me, this is the first reading. Today we are discussing whether the law is in principle appropriate, whether we generally agree that trade is closed on Sundays. How this will be determined, however, is a matter of another reading. And all of you who have taken your signature seriously can't today say there's no reason to support it. If you have signed, I think there is only one option in the vote today; and this is support. That's what I'm going to do, even though I don't agree with all the solutions that they are, but it's a matter of second reading. Finally, I'm going to have some controversy with Janie Möderndorfer. In fact, I thank him because I had not previously imagined what the reasons or arguments could be to oppose this law; but now we have some outline to which this could go. Mr. Möderndorfer, this is how I'm gonna start. You have presented the whole thing as a fight of an individual who would be free as a bird from Mobile advertising, and a country that cuts his wings and squeezes him into a corner. Then you put in this equation the Church, which is hiding behind the state, and you get some rerun of Cankar's Boys, and of course you're playing the brave Jerman. But I have to let you down. I think you took that show that was banned in Macedonia too seriously. We don't live in a world like this anymore. Today the world is reversed, it is no longer a question of whether the state will order you to go to mass on Sunday and after mass to go into obstetrics and then pray penance; but the world is such that if the state does not regulate the market and capitalism, we will all work on Sundays and there will be no possibility of going to mass or nature to be with the family if you want because it is children. We are wooded into this world, and therefore we need the country as a defender of the right to free time, as a regulator, to allow us at all some basic opportunities for a good and decent life in this world. But we can go in a very liberal direction, as you suggest, but then you will not get an individual who will take off, but an individual who will work all day, which is already happening, who will work on weekends, who will no longer have free time, who will not have a regulated salary and will go to the bottom. We know these countries, take a little look towards the East. I would conclude with this, and I think it's clear why I'm going to support this marriage because I don't want to.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u97	Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u98	I'm replicating my colleague Mesco mainly in the part where he's afraid that I'm going to play my part too Cankarian. Let's face it, I'm a liberal, but I'm not a neoliberal. This attempt of yours will not work in this direction. But it's a fact that freedom is for me when I decide what I'm going to do. Because today we have a debate about a law suggesting that trade should be closed in order to make it easier for me to decide that I will have more free time for a mountain trip, this is a completely ideological question for me. I'm worried, fellow moon, about how you're only fighting for the merchants. And I don't mind you fighting for them, but only for traders in this case. Sorry, we're doing the selection again. Where there's regulation, it cancels everything else. I have enough of these state stories where the state must intervene on behalf of the people to regulate something and then settle its ideological issues. When's the happiest time? When the state leaves him alone and stops interfering with his work, which is especially true for the economy. You insist in every way that we, as a country, have to enter a field where traders cannot deal with each other. No, that's all I'm against. If they agree to shut down the stores, great, let them keep them closed; but not with the help of the state, because they are unable to agree. But in the midst of some kind of trade, it is clear in history that large shopping centres are closing down, reshaping and returning to smaller shops. Do we really have to be involved in this?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u99	Procedurally, Dr. Ducky, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I don't mean to be rude, but I have to say half a sentence. What Mr Möderndorfer said is pure ideology, as we all say. As I said, this is a key political economic issue. Mr Möderndorfer as an experienced cat in politics knows that Luke cannot replicate again and then pour a little. If I hadn't sat in my ears, I'd have heard very clearly from my point of view, not just for merchants, for stallions. If the Party of the Modern Centre had listened to the discussion on the minimum wage and had not sat on its ears, we would have heard that too. My procedural proposal is that they wash their ears. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u101	Dr. Franz Duck, do I have to add something? I think the two speakers before you have had a nice, proper debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And that seemed like a slight abuse, but we're moving on, which is more important. Mrs. Andreja Potočnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u102	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Let me begin by answering my colleague Couch and colleague Luka Mesca with regard to the support of the Modern Centre Party. Initially, when Colleague Chuš tabled a proposal for a law that is not entirely his own, it is not important today that we support the purposes and objectives pursued by this law, that further social dialogue is needed or that we open a debate with other stakeholders. At the same time, appropriate amendments should be drawn up as regards the exception. However, there was an additional new situation that we did not know at the time. This is the express acceptance of social dialogue. We all agree here that social dialogue has not yet taken place as quickly as it has in this case. Comrade Chuš, I am extremely happy, unlike my colleague Jani, that you have tabled this bill. With this social dialogue, which would certainly not have taken place without this law, we have come a step further. I personally believe that this step is certainly not enough, but it is a step in the right direction; and this is the protection of workers and workers who work on Sundays who work for bad wages and who are also deprived of the right to a day off on Sundays. On Sundays, children are at home, and parents probably have no benefit if they have a free Monday when their children have to go to school when they have interesting activities. That day off must have been different than it had been on Sundays. I also saw a delivery in the annex to the collective agreement, in the social dialogue that this annex would not apply if the law was adopted. Here I can ask myself how sincere the social partners were when this law was adopted. It is said that this annex has only been adopted because of the introduced law; and here we all have to attribute one great plus. My fellow moon is currently not in the hall, and I myself have contributed my signature to the general debate today. And I am pleased to have contributed to it, because I think this debate is extremely important and urgent. As I mentioned earlier, an additional question raised by my colleague Chuš, the very representativeness of the unions, is being raised. Obviously, there is still room for improvement here, obviously in the unions they will have to agree on who they are actually defending or what number of members are actually defending; perhaps even through this social dialogue they have adopted. Next, it has been repeatedly said by employers that politics must not be involved in closing trade, that it is politics. I personally decided to enter politics so that wherever possible, I could protect a weaker client. And I think in this case the weaker customer is a worker or worker who works on Sundays. If this is a sin, I don't know, it'll obviously be necessary to go to confession and pray a few healthy mothers. And as long as I'm in the National Assembly, I'm still going to take it. My colleague Jani mentioned that he did not want the state to dictate to him what he would do on Sundays. And the employer dictates to the worker that he has to work on Sundays, so we run here with more interest. We run in the interest of a free economic initiative, we run in the interest of free trade. I'm for free trade myself, but I'm for a fair free trade. I see a significant difference here. We run in the interest of liberalism, we run in the interest of the rights of workers and workers. And this is where we need to find the right balance. Since this new situation has occurred, as I have already said in my position, that social dialogue has taken place, and these relevant stakeholders have reached an agreement, we do not believe that this law is necessary at this time. But I stress that if this social dialogue turns out not to be appropriate in the future or that something might have happened, there is still an option to change the closure of trade on Sundays with the law. But I absolutely do not want to tell citizens and citizens – On Sundays go to the cinema, on Sundays go for a walk, go to mass or don't go to mass. That's not my purpose, but you need to protect a weaker client. Yes, Germany also has closed shops on Sundays, Switzerland also has closed shops on Sundays. We love to imitate them because of their economic development, their quality of life, their good wages. Then stop and say, "No, we're not going to compare here because it's a completely different culture. I do not think that there is a completely different culture in Germany and Switzerland, but there is a very good quality of life. And what I want for myself and for all citizens and citizens is that we live of quality and therefore we need balance. And I personally advocate that in the future we have as much as possible a five-day worker to work for eight hours and that we have the rest of the time available for families, hobbies, sports. And that must be our motive for moving forward, not that we want as many consumers as possible good, to spend everything materialised; and then we do not have a quality life. Once again, I'm in favour of where it might be, but of course, it's obvious to me what you're going to do with the fire extinguisher and what you're going to do with the doctor. [[…]] It's not possible there, but it would be possible for traders to do that because it's not necessarily necessary for me to go get clothes on Sundays or go to the mall and fix my hair on Sundays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u103	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Mr Andrej Chuš and Mr Primož Hainz be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleges Following a presentation of the position of the Social Democrats, the proposer mentioned a number of things, so allow me to comment on them a little bit. He also mentioned that the introduction of this law was his strategic decision. That's true, because the elections are at the door and we're gonna have to get voters on our side. But let's step back. During the reign of the Slovenian Democratic Party between 2004 and 2008 [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u105	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u106	This law could already be proposed. [[…]] I know that Comrade Cuz was not in the National Assembly at the time, but you were already a Member in the next term, and we could have suggested that at that time. Today, however, you have indeed proposed, saying that there may be too many exceptions in this proposed law, that you are a single Member with one expert and that you simply expect us to drink this law somehow. It is also true that the Social Democrats have given us signatures for the general debate, because it makes sense for us today to discuss this in order to find common solutions. And why did we sign it then? At the time, this agreement, signed with employers and trade unions, had not yet been on the horizon. I must say that I represented the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, but I believe that the fact that I have given you in our position – however we are already spending our free time – has been the least chance of not putting someone else on the job. When we go to the movies, when we go to the inn for a drink, lunch, or dinner, then someone always does some work for us; and this can happen on Sunday. That is why this debate is so much more important that we look at the matter more broadly. It is true, however, that we must appreciate the work and time of the workers who work; but I certainly agree that these works performed by these workers are undervalued. I am no longer talking here about the minimum wage that we have enacted by the Social Democrats, because if, at the time of the biggest economic crisis, we do not accept it, believe me, today the wages of these traders, guests and other professions would be even lower. At this point, I would agree that these salaries need to be raised absolutely, yet to be fixed, and we need to talk about the starting salary for these industries. When we take a step forward here, I think people will also be significantly easier and very happy to do this work. I think it's the right thing to do. However, I certainly agree, and the undeniable fact is that working on Sundays is not pleasant, so I absolutely support today's debate and therefore my signature to this debate. Not so many years ago, I bought my own bread on Saturday because they were closed down on Sunday, but we didn't complain much. I believe that we are able to do this today, and this again depends on us individuals whether we want it or not. The consumer system that we have is increasingly buying things that we don't really need, and it's even more painful to buy them on Sundays when we're actually supposed to be in our family circle; but we are, because everything really depends on us. Personally, I absolutely believe that trade does not have to be opened on Sundays, but this does not mean that only in large trading centres, but in all stores. In the past, we had on-call stores, then we went, if you were running out of things, but very recently we went to these on-call stores; and I think we could follow that today. On the other hand, we have this dialogue, which has been adopted by employers and trade unions, which I believe is a step in the right direction. For this reason, I do not support this bill today. But if this agreement does not come true or will be played out, I believe that the Members or Members of Parliament will respond immediately to these changes and introduce a law that will no longer make too many exceptions. Today, we have found that this law is incomplete, that it should be carefully corrected, and things could be done differently. My colleague said, "Let's give it to me." I don't know if this is possible with this proposal, but on the other hand we have an agreement, they agreed on which Sundays the trade would be open, what conditions the workers would have. I think that the agreement is still the key, because banning; you know, when you ban things at home, that's the child's favorite thing to do. I believe that this agreement is certainly a step forward if we have not had a law since September, I am afraid that this agreement between unions and employers would not have been reached. Here's a thank-you for the proposaler. However, I hope that we will start to appreciate our time and go to the stores as little as possible on Sundays. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u107	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor. Prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go, Mr. Chush.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u108	I thank you for the commendation and congratulations that we have moved something forward. But like I said, I'm saying it's not nice to be half-cocked, not at home or at work, you know, especially entrepreneurs. And I'm saying that when you do something, you have to do it all the way. I insist that the law be passed. And that's what I'd say to the Social Democrats. Please don't drag yourself out, because if you don't support this bill, you support unnecessary Sunday work and Sunday is a working day for you, simple mathematics. And when I received this note for the marriage, that we have put it now; we have begun to prepare this law in May, June. The Second track law referendum campaign, when we also participated in the stands and collected certified signatures. Whoever did this knows that this is a very difficult job, because people have an opinion about us as they do. And there a bunch of people said, "Your referendums, stop, ban the referendums, because what we went to vote, you fucked us." And when I heard that from an old lady, I was just quiet. Is there anything I can do to counter this? Nothing. She told us what we're doing, and I think we all agree with her here. And because of such things, people lose confidence in democracy. Now, let me read a very good contribution from Mr. Rok Čakš, from whom I like to read several times: "On the proposal of trade unions who want to allow traders and traders to spend time with their families, a law will be passed gradually by 2020, closing trade on all Sundays of the year. The news is not from Slovenia, but from Poland. Otherwise, the public opinion on Sunday’s closing down of trade is also favored by us. In the procedure there is the “Couch Law” which would at least severely restrict Sunday shopping if it had not completely eliminated. But unlike the Polish Slovenian trade union rather sends its members home to their families for Sunday work, otherwise for a double wage. In consumer capitalism, we will obviously experience everything, including the pact between large commercial corporations and trade unions against a country that would like to afford consumers at least one day a week without purchases and trade workers a peaceful, peaceful family Sunday. Unnecessary state regulations are numbered in Slovenia, but they often fail just when policies have pure accounts and good purpose." Then skip a little bit, commenting on this deal and saying: “The spoil of the apparent happy end or after the Slovenian happy end of this consumer fairy tale is the feeling that the wolf remains full and the goat whole. But in fact, such compromises also have their hidden victims. And since this is not a country, because the agreement has no negative budgetary implications, it can only be people. And interestingly, if you ask the owner of the store Franco, the seller Magda and consumer Aloise, they are united slightly differently than their representative: they are all for the Sunday closing trade, mostly without the rotten compromises we could see in the media." I think that this article has taken all this quite well over the last three months, which have also been very difficult for some of the members of this Assembly in this area, because every day something has happened and changed. Let me finish by saying again why we're waiting again to find out something's wrong. I think we're always waiting in Parliament for something to happen, and then we're all competing or competing here, because it's the end of the line, who's going to file an intervention law or an emergency law that will put an end to it. I don't think that's exactly a perspective, not for the well-being of people or for some stability, and a hand on the heart, in general for people and workers. However, I appeal that it somehow proceed to the adoption of the law in the second reading, where it can be properly corrected, because I think there are no obstacles to not doing it, but there must be will, and here is now the question of how many people are in pants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u109	The replica has a mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I have to take this half-life. My colleague said we had to play it all the way. Indeed, it is necessary to play to the end, and I fully agree with this, but not only with one item of the agenda, but with the entire mandate. I believe that I have been doing the work of a Member all this time properly, honestly, well, and I am trying and sitting in the main part of the Chamber; only when other things have to be done will I go away. My colleague is very few, since he is a single Member present in the National Assembly, I must say this, and that is why confidence in democracy, as he said, is so bad. Because people on the street are asking what Members are doing, that there are so few of us in the Chamber at such important points as when they are social notes. At this point, I must say that we should all ask each other together and play a role until the end of the mandate; all of us have the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u111	Mr Andrej Chus has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u112	I'll take it, but I'm still asking for it - no feelings. Politicians who respond to everything with emotion usually do not last long in politics or say they are not for it. So do I — you see what is happening — try to be as calm, correct and patient and respectful as possible regardless of which side someone is coming from. Yes, I agree, you have to look at the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the independent Member at more than half of the agenda points can't even discuss, and professional support is much more obedient than ever. Let me put it this way, over 20 marriage proposals in the field of youth, economy, agriculture within one year, something has started to work on the environment, infrastructure. I think that over 320 of the parliamentary initiatives and questions put forward also bear witness that I am very much on the ground and that I am doing my work very faithfully and loyally. Of course, it is an individual’s business whether you sit in the hall all day or not, or whether you prefer to go to the field to solve people’s problems or at least to realize it. If you sit here for 12 hours and say nothing, I don't think there's any point in sitting here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u113	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Prepare Mr. Uroš Prikl and Mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Greetings to the secretary and the team! I must say that this subject, like all other subjects in the National Assembly, are political subjects, there is no doubt. Those who talk about some objective circumstances and relationships are being misdirected. What are people going to do on Sunday? That's a big question. Whether he will go to the Mountain above Vrhnika or to Nanos, or perhaps to the Ljubljana Gallery, no one has mentioned it. Urosh is offended because no one mentioned the football game; but all this is done on Sunday. All that stuff I wrote, including Qlandia in New Town, people aren't in the family. Rest and Sunday's lunch is supposed to be the family's common ground. It is not that easy, even the Ljubljana galleries are full in the morning, so when the family should be together, even the football game is not a family together, sometimes the son goes along, but certainly not the whole family if I caricature a little, because I know that some of you jumped from these tracks. For I would not like to be an engineer of souls, as we may have done at times, but people choose. We came to some stage when people wanted this market economy, this wealth, which is fictional and sometimes wrong; and they buy things that psychologists say we buy what we don't need. This is some phase that I think we have to live out in some way. In this liberalism, as colleague Jani Möderndorfer represented, I must say, he exaggerated a little. Let's say whether it's really free, how much Slovenian music is on Slovenian TV and radio, here I was convinced that it can't be free, because even though Slovenian music is not on the show at all or it's from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. Thank God we have also regulated this in some way in this national assembly. And that's where his buddy was exaggerating. We have a social state in the Constitution and the state has things to regulate. The areas where the country has to regulate are certainly these so-called social issues. Last time we had a discussion on the lowest wage proposed by Levi, we supported the lowest wage, because we think there is a minimum where the state has to give its contribution to people as normal as 700 euros of that minimum wage, but it could be close. But I was most pleased when we started to discuss the subject, the problem was triggered by trade, of course not by my colleague Chuš. Mercator’s problem was that he simply realized that he had too much or no financial loss at his holidays. They were afraid of the currents, if they closed up, of course, the buyers would go elsewhere, so they can't afford it themselves. This train, this debate has been captured by my colleague Chuš, who, of course, is not inappropriate, if I may say so. It's a problem. But I am most pleased that traders and employees have agreed in a so-called social agreement. And as long as this social agreement is adopted, I think this is the most elegant transitional phase, some compromise that is necessary in life, because there are no clean solutions in fact. Because you can't close the pump because you can't shut down shops in tourist areas and so on. If there is agreement between these social partners, this is a nice contribution or the most placed way. This has taken place at this stage and I myself agree to this version of the social agreement; although, as I stress, this is some compromise that is not real; but at this point it may be realistic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u115	I will read all four other debaters: Mr Uroš Prikl as the first, then Mr Marko Ferluga, Mr Zvonko Lah and Dr Mitja Horvat. As the first to receive the word, Mr. Uroš Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Here we have heard a lot of the purchasing habits of our colleagues and fellow Members of their acquaintances, their neighbors. I signed for the general debate and, of course, I am not sorry, I would have given it again, even though I would have proposed a regulation to anyone else in this house or a representative of the Council of State. Andrei, you have succeeded, you have won, and for this reason only, because you have stimulated thinking, stimulated thinking in the right direction, stimulated action in the right direction and keyly, I hope, contributed to an agreement between employers and employees. As a result, as we have read, 15 weeks a year, is a restriction on holidays; and especially to me, exceptions for parents who care for children, especially for children with special needs and sick children. And what's more important here, this work on Sundays and holidays is going to be extra, better paid, which is something completely normal. But it wasn't normal until a few months or weeks ago. Why don't I support the law itself, which is very easy to conclude here? In this case, where an agreement is reached between stakeholders, recipients and labour donors, there is no need for law. And if we followed this instinct to take the law to another reading, to complete it, to complement it, to complete it, however, it would be a slap for the agreement between employers and employees, which would be a very bad trip for the expected dialogue of this kind, even in the future, when some other laws relevant to the existence of employees, as well as pensioners, families and so on will be adopted. As it is said, for proper work, fair and decent pay, I believe that one step or two steps has been taken here. However, I would like, personally and in my Group of Members, that this is not the last point, that we continue to go, that these workers and workers working on normal days and working off days receive even better payments so that at the end of the month there is no question whether they are below or below a few euros above a minimum wage that allows minimum survival. But there is a step forward and a good signal for all stakeholders in the future. Although I did not fully understand my colleague Hainz about football games, I will now ask him. Of course he forgot to say – football games in the company of children and families in the Human Garden in Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u117	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah and Dr. Mitja Horvat. Mr. Ferruga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Hello, secretary of state and co-workers and everyone else here! There's been a lot of talk about this, but I'd like to thank Andre first. And let's leave what he had in the back, whether it's political intent, whether it's coming elections, or anything else, but this action actually provoked that these unions and employers could finally agree on something that works for the workers, it seems direct. I have also been told by the workers employed in Mercator what problems they have and how they are being treated, which is certainly unacceptable for a country such as ours, as they are supposed to be regulated, to be subject to certain rules and legislation. In fact, employers also take advantage of these workers and workers, which is clear to everyone. If all these laws are going to help resolve this situation; probably not, but the right path is for those who have chosen it to be employers and employees, the right representatives of the unions have agreed and discussed what needs to be done. I think that after 26 years we need to slowly go over this period because we have always had some combination of the previous system, it's called socialist, and now it's half harsh capitalist; and that we're moving into some regulated society where some of the normal rules and regulations that apply in some Western societies should apply. That the capital is such that it exploits, Karl Marx said long ago. The fact is that this consumer society, which also stems from capitalist thinking, behaviour and behaviour, to people, to employees, is likely to cut workers off quite a bit. And here's this point where these unions come in, who have to deal with all these things with employers. I have already made my statement in the Primorski News before this debate that I am against political interference and that it prescribes when they will have timetables and that employers will prescribe it. I am in favour of a general legal framework, which must be clearly respected, so we have an executive branch of authority, then we have control inspection services that regulate it, and eventually the courts, if necessary. To be open, flexible, modern and advanced society, we must also trust so much in the free movement of goods and that employers and workers are so adults that they can agree on some rational conditions. And I think they've proven it here and reached at least one step forward. Here, politics has to stand by and let this flow, so if you don't go outside the box, let it run. Otherwise, as far as over-involvement is concerned, we already have an endless sea of rules, rules and all other matters in Slovenia, and I think it is good that we still withdraw a little. I know France won't agree with me, but I think there has to be a little open economy. To prescribe that you have to go to the basement and press the light before you go, maybe it's already ridiculous. Unfortunately, the facts show in Slovenia that everything must be prescribed, and then, if it is not prescribed, people get lost immediately. There is no longer this healthy farmer of intelligence, as Mr Jurša always likes to say. This great involvement of us, politicians in these economic matters, I do not think it is good and it is not necessary, but, as I would like to say again, we need to have some frameworks and if these frameworks are in breach, there must be appropriate sanctions. That's not how I want to go forward with this marriage. I think that this agreement between trade unions and employers has made some progress. If that's not enough, the unions still have a chance to rebel. But has the question been raised well before of one of my predecessors We even have a sea of these unions – who is this representative union? [[…]] And this is such an interesting topic for us, which could ever be well debated here between us, because this union movement and action, in my opinion, is not as small as it is, I will say, arranged. But it is in taking democracy in the sense that I can do everything because we are in a democratic society, maybe it went beyond all normal borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u119	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor, and as the last reported debater in the regular part of Dr Mitja Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to join those of you who have spoken today about the fact that colleague Andrej Chuš, with this law and with activities on the ground, has encouraged some reflection on this and also encouraged that this agreement has taken place between employers and employees in this sector. This is probably some success, although any agreement can, in my opinion, change even when the storm is over, and come back to the old one. However, if the law is passed, the law applies to everyone, at least I hope, in our country, but the problem is for those who are self-employed, both employers and employees. The left-hand parties have everyone who's some espa, for the capitalist, is already capital and they have enough money, but [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] But it's not like that. We have a lot of small stores where there is one self-employed, in BTC, Ljubljana, in these major centres, Mercators, Qlandia, and similarly where there are more shops and these traders are bound by the contract that their stores must also be open all the time that the biggest shops within these centres are open. These are usually nutritious — Spar, Mercator, or similar. These stores are open on Saturdays and Sundays, and if it's someone who is self-employed, let's take for example one single mother who has to have an open shop on Saturdays and Sundays, she can't afford to hire someone for that time, it's practically all the time, except for the big holidays, to work in this store. This agreement does not apply here. Of course, if he doesn't sign such a contract, and when he opens up a store when he rents premises, he doesn't get them because he has to commit himself to it; I know some of them. I think that if the law had been adopted, we would have also resolved that there should be no such thing in the contract, but they would have committed themselves to closing trade on Sunday or that time, because every owner of a large shopping centre is looking at the profit that the facility is open for as long as possible and is also renting as high as possible. That's not how we're gonna solve this. However, if this agreement, which has also been reached through media support and the activities of the proposer, is to hold, it will hold at least something in order. Although I have talked to traders, no matter how much this Sunday’s work should be paid better, most of them, especially those younger women who have families, younger children, rather than at home, are paid so much more. That's why I'm skeptical that those of you who make excuses for this agreement to be better than the law think we've solved the matter. I'm afraid not. As the referendum took place, this agreement will slowly change or not apply. I've heard from my colleague that if they have such a tradition in the Western world that they can't agree to it to go this way, of course we will have to, because we have merchants coming from these countries, they have their habits, their ways, and I think we have to adapt. However, like those traders in Germany, Austria would do well to agree on a similar arrangement with us that employees have certain rights set free days. I am afraid that this agreement will not solve this, because trade will still be open, employers will try to replace – those who do not have enough employees to rotate – and they will try to resolve it with redundancies and will be open to trade. But I don't think that's the way it is, because abroad, at least in Western countries, it's not. I would therefore like to congratulate the proposaler once again on the fact that this has opened up to discuss the agreement being signed, and I strongly hope that the agreement will also be in force, as it is, or that it has improved in the interests of the workers. However, I would like to agree with the proposaler that if we put this law into a second treatment and put it together with actors, employers, employers, trade unions in some way are still frigid, that we could also adopt a law, even though we are a country that is over-ruled, we have almost 20,000 rules, I don't know how many laws, and we are such a company that, at present in certain cases, we must also have legislation to protect or protect some. I'd back it up. I think that the law has come at the right time to be the purpose, I hope that the results will also be the result that will be of particular interest to traders. Let me repeat that I have spoken with some merchants, especially the younger ones, and they support the law, and the question is, if they know the details. Basically, we would like to be home to their families on Sundays, although this law also stipulates that on-call shops must be on-call, that even on Sundays people must have the opportunity to buy at least life’s necessities, which technical trade can easily be closed on Sundays. There are also many, except in these major trade centres where they are bound by the contract. I would appeal to all of us to follow that this law may be put into further consideration, but to improve and then to decide whether to support it or not, and in the meantime the coalition, the government or the ministry will weigh well what the situation in this sector is.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u121	Dr. Mitja Horvat, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. There will be only a little patience, Mr Trček, for about 20 minutes, and then we will go on a time-sharing process as usual. I must say, too, that the idea of putting forward a proposal for this law was good, because it encouraged us to debate, because we could clear up a few questions, of course, even ideological ones to begin with. Of course, I will not repeat what has been said on our liberal side. However, since the introduction was a few strong on the SMC account, which is a common phenomenon by Mr Trčko, of course I cannot help but answer certain questions. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] In the meantime, it is not an isolated case, not only in the position of the Group of Members. [[…]] In fact, it is a duality that you show on the Left side, because in certain cases you are very warm and you have very much to say about SMC, and when SMC proposes an amendment or a bill that is for the benefit of people, and for principle reasons, so that you can tweet that you only did so so that SMC can see what it feels like if a proposal is not put to the vote, but, of course, it is inappropriate and irresponsible. So, given the fact that, if you're willing to do so, you're going to have to criticize yourself on the average, then of course allow me to express my disdain for what you're doing. I can also fully understand New Slovenia and the distinguished Mr Lach in calling us, but, unfortunately, in this case, this time will not work. And I'm going to do a little bit of trying, too, why I don't think so, and then a little bit more, because we haven't looked at what kind of agreement was actually reached between the employers and the unions, where I'm going to support it, because I think my colleague Chuš has found that this agreement, which was made with the annex, is probably not going to bring what was communicated to the public. So, Annex No. 3 h The Collective Contract for the Activities of Trade in Slovenia. What did we say, and here's where you misunderstood, Dr. Duck, what SMC did. SMC, of course, said that it supports the principles because this is in line with the policy of the Modern Centre Party. In order to support the objective of this law, which, as the proponent says, provides employees with the right to quality family life in commercial activities without affecting the free enterprise initiative. It's a tiny nuance, but it has to be explained. This is not to say that the current situation, as it is, would be understood or supported as the only right and saving thing, especially not through the ideology of neoliberalism. This would, of course, be a mistake, and there is likely to be some effort to be made in this part, and I think that this debate, including the one that was just before the plenary session of the National Assembly today, is likely to have brought quite a dilemma to which the appropriate answers will have to be given. As far as the bill itself is concerned, because it is dedicated to this issue, i.e. the issue of working on Sundays and working off days, holidays, yes or no, we are likely to be going too far here and, of course, through this law, even if we try to fix it, we will not be able to achieve it. Nor is it likely to be necessary, or it would be a waste of further effort if we tried to resolve issues or problems that I perceive through this procedure, and I will now also express them on my behalf in relation to this proposal. I remember because today there were also some speeches about the 1980s, the 1990s, I remember a time when it was extremely boring to spend weeks in Ljubljana, because the city was empty, practically nowhere, everything was closed. This was the time of state regulation and this kind of state regulation I no longer want, and I believe that we have moved forward in time. I am not saying that everything that development has brought is good for everyone, but at least for most of the people who have been spoken about today, it is true that they can decide freely how they will spend weeks, not in this case where it is, of course, a matter of fact, whether national regulation would also ensure that those who are employed in trade are free to have their time. In fact, here is the essence of my question or the dilemma that has arisen to me all the time today's debate, and even before that, because of that, I also said that I would touch the annex to take into my hands, and I would read a few things about what was achieved in this agreement. In fact, even on Saturdays or Sundays, I see shopkeepers or cashiers, and I ask her if the employer can't provide you with a chair so that while you're working at the cash register, at least a little easier to do your job. Her answer is: “Thank you very much for noticing. Most people do not notice this, nor does my employer.” It is a question of where I must agree, and in this part is basically what I can agree on in what Levica also says in her deliberations is the position of workers. Are workers really free to enter into a relationship and free will is their contractual relationship with their employer? In this part, I also understand and support the arguments put forward by Mr Lah, in particular where someone as espa, or himself or, of course, with the help of others, performs under certain conditions, under those conditions which most likely do not represent the free will of two equivalent parties. And this is something that we certainly need to deal with and what we must face — unlike those who thought that today’s debate was not really necessary to waste time. Absolutely not. It's time to talk about what to do and what not to regulate. Surely we will never be able to regulate free will, and the question of course is how we as a society will be able to deal with what we point out is unacceptable when it comes to abuse of a stronger position in all different areas. So, listen, here I have to take Mr. Duck to the dam when it comes to these kinds of people. Let's say it's a current matter now, but their client has gone to the side of those who are doing their job on the lists. And so on and so forth, we could still list. The question is, is what I'm about to read from the annex holding true? Trades that are now most likely unable to watch us because they are working, including traders, so that today we will not just talk about trades. The question is whether they live in such a world, which stems from the document we received 4. 12. To the National Assembly where the Trade Union of Slovenia, the Council of Gorenje Trade Unions, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia are sent to the Republic of Slovenia. As it is said, not for this reason, but for other reasons, I will not support the law itself, because I do not think that this is necessary to regulate, but certain other things need to be regulated, which I have been alerting for a good time and is a matter of our general relationship and the situation in the field of working relations. One of the issues that has now been settled here is the uneven distribution of working time and the implementation of the temporary redeployment of working time in Article 33a read in the second paragraph: “The employer is obliged to inform workers in writing, in what way and for how long the working time is temporarily reassigned, at least one day before the temporary reassignment of working time to an individual worker or at least three days before the temporary reassignment of working time to more than ten workers.” As we read further on implementation, Article 33.b, the excess of hours in the context of the uneven distribution of working time and temporary reassignment of working time, I read the following. First paragraph: “In the case of unequal working time allocation and temporary reassignment of working time, including overtime, shall not take more than 56 hours a week.” Just in case, I'll do it again, 56 hours a week. Are you ready for the field session? Let's ask how long, how many hours a week do people working in the store? We read on the third paragraph: “The employer is obliged to enable the employee to exceed the hours within a 12-month period,...” - 12 months! “...which he has made up for the unequal distribution of working time or temporary reassignment, is compensated with free hours.” Can he choose them freely, free hours? Will they be able to do so on the basis of this provision, this agreement? “If compensation with free hours due to the nature of the work process...” Immediately in the next sentence, by congratulating, Comrade Chuš, you have read exactly and I myself wonder whether this is really the answer to all the dilemmas you have put forward with your proposal and which have appeared in the public debate at this time. Therefore, “if no compensation with free hours due to the nature of the working process is possible within a 12-month period, the employer shall be liable for payment in the following month following the expiry of the 12-month period,...” He can compensate with free hours if he can't do it in a 12-month period. What if the alarms don't ring in here for everyone? I do. “...the employer is obliged to pay in the next month after the expiry of the 12-month period to pay the worker an excess of up to 170 hours worked at the level specified for overtime.” 56 hours per week may work if he is unable to pay the employee with the free hours, if this is not possible due to the nature of the work, over 170 hours then we know what hours we are talking about! [[…]] So 170 hours anyway. When I asked you earlier, let's go see how many hours people work — 56 hours a week? It is said that “it is necessary to pay an excess of up to 170 hours spent as determined for overtime and each additional hour carried out in the amount of the corresponding hourly item from the base salary,...” Attention, from the basic wage! You'll remember two years ago when we first talked about minimum wage, about supplements, we looked at what the basic salary is, of course, that's not a minimum wage? To this day, no one has explained to me what could be lower than the minimum wage – in response to Levica, when you talk about why we do not support the raise of the minimum wage. Since there is no problem in minimum wage, the problem is in the basic and all other wages that are going on and, of course, in everything that comes next “up to and including 28. 2. 2018,«– that is, if they are faster –‘enhanced by 45 %, of which 1. 3.” [[…]] So if they don't pay it fast enough, it's "up 60%." “In the event that the employer does not order a temporary reassignment of working time in cases and in accordance with the procedure laid down in this law and this collective agreement, the hours paid shall be equal to the corresponding hourly item of the basic salary of the worker increased by 100 %.” Where do you think he is, my friend? You hear right and I support him in his position? In the second paragraph of Article 40, weeks of work. “The employer must establish a working schedule for workers who are not subject to the restriction or prohibition referred to in the preceding paragraph, with an annual working time schedule, so that the worker is not assigned to the work obligation for more than two weeks per month, but not more than 15 weeks per year.” The stores we talked about today mostly have more than two employees, so I think my colleague Chuš is right about what he warned us about. In short, gratefully, there has been a certain agreement very quickly and I wish good luck to continue the social partners to reach agreement further. To the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Economy: of course, the work has not yet been done. We have a lot ahead of us, so I hope and I believe that you have taken a lot of information from this session today, what will have to be regulated and what not. Freedom, to where and for whom, that is the basic issue, which has also been addressed today by my colleague Trček and, above all, my fellow Member, Möderndorfer. Of course, it's not about giving people what schedule they'll have on Sunday. Of course, it is not about regulating when and how a free economic initiative will be carried out, but at least what we expect is that there will be no abuse in these processes. That people will not burn out, and, as we know, on the other hand, it brings us a lot to say so, social energy when people get sick, when they just can't. Of course, we can understand that, but for my taste, it's a little too cynical that some workers also like to work on Sundays because the profits are a little higher. I understand the day when you don't have something to do, and you prefer to work, and if you're even better paid than another day, and then the next day you don't have to work. I hope that the restrictions that we have in our labour law are taken into account; not in the way that it is not recorded, but that people actually have time to rest, as it is envisaged that they have time to spend their free time in quality, not to try to recover from the next efforts. All of this, you know, I'm not going to say it because it doesn't have to go too far to see what kind of effort, what kind of denial people make it possible for systems to work, procedures to run, and work to be done. Thank you very much to all who are making these efforts, of course, I am not in this situation alone to be protected by the Labour Relations Act, although I have some kind of contract concluded; my working time is not 8, it is not 12 hours what those of us in this Chamber today know very well. What Monday I met my colleague and he asked me at nine o'clock at night: "The eight-year-old worker?" I said, "Please!" Of course, many do not know him, but we have decided to do so; with the agreement we have given, we have decided that we will serve 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and all year. There's no excuse. We're running out of hours. We're going home. My colleague Chuš has said nicely, we have work to do on the ground, we need to see what is going on, and of course I have to say, let us talk about this serious issue at some point – what is the essence of our work — taking care of local interests or taking care of matters that concern everyone in the Republic of Slovenia? I'm not going any further with this. Of course, we can't with an excuse not for one, not for the other, our work is combined everywhere, of course we are and we have to be, it is true that we are elected somewhere, but we are acting in constitutional order for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I could still be in electoral law right now, so I'm going back. But it was our decision, our will and, of course, we give our energy, our time, everything at our disposal because we are carrying out a certain mission. What about those spoken of today who work in the store? Not by their own free will — perhaps by doing something else — they are doing this work. But is it true that they must carry out it because of simple diction, by assignment, and under the supervision of the employer at any time, anywhere, under any conditions, at any time? These are the real issues that I believe we can and must have regulation in order to ensure the quality of life for employees or, above all, employees. We can't close our eyes and say, but it's very comfortable, because whenever you remember, you can go and buy what you need. I prefer to go to a Bolshevik fair, walk around Ljubljana or spend my free time and very, very, very rarely you will see me on Sunday in the store. It's my choice, and I'm offering it to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u123	Mr Andrej Chus has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u124	Thank you. In view of the fact that I am the last in line among the applicants, I thank everyone for the debate. I have to say, I have a feeling that half-and-half. Half of the members of the coalition would be in favour or in favour of, half of, I don't know, good and obey orders or are really against, although I haven't observed this bill today. Perhaps only colleague Möderndorfer, perhaps someone else, but I still feel that you, members of the coalition, realize that this compromise, signed by both traders and trade unions, is very rotten and smells like heaven. The only real solution in this case is to adopt the law. Now that I have listened very carefully to Mr Horvat, including my former professor on one subject, I asked myself what the arguments were, why not adopt this law. I told myself, write down three reasons why you shouldn't. To be honest, the only argument you've offered to oppose is that there's too many exceptions. But this rotten compromise between unions and traders contains more exceptions than my proposal for a law in the first reading, and I also said we are offering a hand. Let us step together, form the text of the law, to truly follow the purpose and purpose of the law. We all kind of come from these first introductory pages of every marriage when we file it. That is why I appeal once again before you have a dedication in the parliamentary groups to reconsider whether you support some ad hoc solutions that preserve the status quo. We all know that the paper carries everything, or we will finally do something, and after 14 years as the legislator, we will also do what was imposed on us at the referendum. I also say that I do not agree with any referendum decision, but I do. For example, the arbitration I went to vote against, but today I say, look, the will was like this, the right is like that, and that must be taken into account, even though I would like to cry or attack someone. [[…]] Of course, I just imagine, I don't think I'm that aggressive. However, I think that this needs to be taken into account, even if we do not agree to it, so I am really stressing once again what I have said today; that a politician or a Member who does not respect the referendum will of the people must be at peace with Parliament as soon as possible. Not only now, we must also check the responsibility of the previous mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u125	Since I see there is still a desire for debate, I invite you to apply to the debate by pressing the button. If this is also what you want to do by a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer, please do the same. I'm just starting my application for debate. The application shall be made. As the first to receive the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. You know, after basic education I am a science-mathematic technique, direction Useful mathematics and after three and a half years I know that in this d++brown choir logic is hell. Let's go in one order. You're liberals here. “Policy must not interfere with business times.” Dude, you're even a real doctor. Jani was Ljubljana's mayor. And business hours are defined, dear God! This is one of the last powers, which, if I say "consultative referendum", is slightly in the form of urban districts. And I'm going to open up Janko and we're going to have a glass, and we're going to say we're going to have to extend it to eleven, and they're going to ask -- and so on. Then let's go. “State regulation; we do not want to have regulation.” I agree with my colleague Mitja here. There's even one book about what Slovenians do on Sundays. In the SMC, you've deregulated the area of commerce. That means anyone can work in a stall. Look, I have a good acquaintance, a job in France, there are very clearly defined by curry, a city of areas as much as certain activities can be. How many barns, how many hairdressers, how many butchers, what opening times are. And if we were to go to Paris with my colleague Mitja, for example, if we were to go to the OECD on business, it would be hard to say that there is no happening there. This state regulation is precisely because people can live a decent life. Last year or before last year – not exactly holding me, you should Google – a man died, a Nobel laureate who proved that the free market is not that it doesn't work on the theoretical level, let alone on the practical. He won the Nobel Prize for Economics, by the way. And at the end of the day, if Comrade Mitja had listened well, you said we had to have regulation. Of course we have to. Let's move on. “Of course we will not regulate the free economic initiative.” The party that has so many doctors' rights, we have Article 67 of the Constitution, we have Article 74 of the Constitution, which states that it must not be contrary to public utility. We from the Constitution already need to regulate a free economic initiative. Listen to what you're saying! After all, you're people with PhDs. I mean, come on! Most lawyers after three and a half years would have pulled so much of the crap you said you should have your degree, not your doctorate. My friend Lach is away. I love him in a lot of things, but when he gets his SDS back, even though he's out of it, I don't have that much. He said something like that, yes, because in the left-hand side of every espionage they think it is — what? – capitalist. Far from it! If I hadn't sat on my ears, I'd have heard very clearly how many times we've been dealing with the issue of forced espions. If some of the bad capitalists are espouses, these are the many advisors of all governments, many professors of law, finance, economy and those who receive – I have the latest data: the Janša government, the Brother's Government, your government – such money that we can imagine them. Three, four of them get as much from them in five years as Tanko got cost-effectively in 17. 120 people 30 million, I'd like to call an extraordinary meeting. And if you want to within your context – the problem with Slovenia is that there are essentially no capitalists. They were shabbazers who stole this country, politically connected, and they can't do business. That's our fucking basic, key problem. That's why they have so low pensions, and they're so low wages. And I can partly agree here – do you know what the problem is? The floor, at minimum wage! Kristina Bozič writes in the Evening on Saturday about the fact that she even cheats on the calculation of the minimum cost of living because only 20 percent is taken below 40 percent. And as a methodology, I would say that we should cut off the lower 20s and take the 60s and then come after Trčko's calculation that the minimum wage should be EUR 850 net. That's why I yelled at you at the time that it was supposed to be 800 nets. He's already cheating here. And we know who the most experienced SD secretary is if you want to peck each other so I won't use any worse terms. And you know, citing, now there is no corporate governance, now you're going to talk about social dialogue! What social dialogue, if that's how the worker goes?Oh, my God! It is also Parliament's task to look at whether it is really a social dialogue or just something being sold as a social dialogue and then do what is done responsibly after 15, 16 hours a day, which I do myself. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u127	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u128	President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! I have to say at the outset of my debate that I do not support business on Sundays. Today I have heard many things, including that this is an ideological question and so on. In fact, I don't see an ideological question here, because if it's a family, it's for children, it's important to all people, to all of us. Family is very important. If we lean on it, I don't think – now, someone understands that they spend Sunday together to cook their lunch, some go to mass, and some go to mass. The others are going on a trip. And that's actually not enough for us to compare to strangers. In Europe, Austria, we know this is different and you can also look at Scandinavian countries – they are closed on Sundays. The referendum, which, of course, was 2003, also said something. Of course, he was not decisive, but he did say something; that people wanted to be free on Sundays. Many times in the field, in the environment, or in the shops, when, even now, at the time of the talk about this law, that it will be in Parliament again, I talk to the workers and ask them: How and what are you getting paid for working on Sundays? But you know, most of the workers say that it's underpaid, that they don't take it away, and that they'd much rather be at home, but unfortunately also with employers – although we're now saying that the agreement between employers and trade unions was somehow done to make a deal, but, you know, between workers and employers there is something else. Workers often do not hope to talk and challenge employers ’ demands so that they do not work on Sundays. I'm sure that's true. That is why I think that marriage is necessary, but of course this law — if we are talking about the Law of the Cuzs, it needs to be finalized. I guess sooner or later, I don't know if this law will come from him or from the Ministry, by the government, another law will have to determine these things. In fact, we have to protect the workers, the workers, especially here, because otherwise I don't see any solution here. What they say a lot of times: competition. Yes, if trade is to be closed, then of course everything must be closed, everything must be closed and then they will not compete with each other. [[…]] But what's necessary on Sundays is that something will then move to gas stations. Look, this is childish talk. [[…]] We know what's in there, and we also know that he's going to the gas station who's going to the gas station, but he's not going to the service after the purchases on Sunday. That's what we have to be so mature about. We can't compare things like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u129	Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. I've been expecting a little bit and I've been hoping to come and see my colleagues, Ducky, so I can answer certain questions. I am not talking about the fact that regulation is not necessary; of course, it is necessary, because if regulation was not required, then the National Assembly would not actually need much or our meetings would be significantly easier. It is about whether to regulate whether or not trade is open on Sundays. That was the point. Unfortunately, buddy Duck isn't here right now, but I hope he's listening to me somewhere, so I can explain it to him. Of course, in all regulated countries they also regulate and regulate normal coexistence, especially in narrow settlements. It is slightly different in the village, where people talk to each other more easily, while where there are more people where there are cities and, of course, there is also a need for this kind of regulation, where in principle we agree – not just employers and workers – again, when and how they will work, but, of course, when we agree with the local community. This is the case, clearly, for different types of regulations. As for our visit, if we are going on a business trip on Sunday, which is obviously your basic principle, I must say that we will not succeed because I will try to spend our time in a good way, or if we agree, we are going on a weekend or some holiday, and we are really looking at how this is going. But I think we can also do this from the Republic of Slovenia so that we can figure out what the situation is in Paris, a city that never sleeps. Of course, you have to make your own transport if you want it by subway, because between one and four hours there is no transport of this kind. Whether trade is open or not at the time, it is also not a vital question because we talk about the rhythm of the city, not Sunday. Sunday is, of course, another and a particular question, but despite this fundamental issue, my position was expressed that we do not need state regulation in this regard. But I really hope, and I am also glad, that now my forerunner, my colleague Škodnik of our parliamentary group, has also expressed this view that he hopes and believes that from here on from here on out, from the social dialogue, from the agreement between employers' representatives and workers' representatives, that there will also be a realisation of these arrangements in the relationship that we are interested in here and which we have avoided and which, of course, also the proposal of my colleague, Chuš, is avoiding. Regrettably, despite the fact that you have invited us in the end, it is not possible to accept this proposal or to improve it at any given time because it is not a real issue. I have therefore taken some more time to explain what the real issues are, if workers in this relationship are satisfied with employers in trade activities, protected under regulation, as envisaged by this agreement between employers and workers' representatives, so that people can better organize their lives and spend their time in quality, including family time, which they do not have on Sundays, but usually do not have in a week. These are serious and big questions that should be considered in this society for once; under what conditions and under what circumstances workers are working, in this case in commercial activities. Of course she's not the only one. Are we sensitive enough as a community, or do we all take care of quality of life together? Are we compassionate enough, in this sense also, to be in solidarity with them, not demanding that they be available to us, when it suits us and when we remember, but, of course, that we also view them as those who have the same right to their quality life? These are the questions that I wanted to point out, and I don't think the law solves them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u131	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u132	Dear President, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members of the Council, Mr Chuš! I do not wish to be pathetic to congratulate my colleague, but I cannot help but say that he was very brave that this law had already been prepared by him as a Member, of course his professional staff, is a demanding project. I think that he has proved, I would say, his intention and also the goal achieved by this law, to open one debate on a very sensitive subject, in particular the most sensitive part of workers or workers in shops that have wages that are not worthy of a decent life. In this way, I would fully assess that this proposal has come to the fore on a topic, a topic which, of course, can come to a final solution also on the basis of one social dialogue or negotiation. I'm just agreeing that maybe we're a reregulated country, that we have a bunch of laws that sometimes we don't realize. My colleague and I have also met in the field, in the valley of Meziska, and we may still be, but let me tell you an example from this valley. I know a store called Tina, who owns a private company, of course a family company, works there, sells there, and of course lives on it. She just decided to make such a business decision that she's literally open all day. Of course, making a profit from her trade may also make her do this, but that is her business decision. Of course, I also think that maybe I wouldn't want some kind of regulation. Thus, I am more agreeable to the negotiations, the dialogue that this law has also initiated, and I think that one step forward has been taken to achieve these workers with dignity, a life worth living. We know different activities, there are also two-change works, three-change work, four-change work. These employers, if they want to obtain workers for this job, pay them accordingly. So I would basically set this thesis that we should solve by properly rewarding this work, and then only life will bring an optimal solution. It must have changed working time, too. By the way, 20, 30 years ago we worked till two, you went to the store this afternoon and bought something. There's no time now, so sometimes you have to make some purchases for the weekend. I also think that negotiating, patient dialogue brings optimal solutions, but it is certainly an opportunity at the back; a law that would definitively regulate this if this dialogue did not bring what I also advocate that work should be done – even now that we are recording this economic growth, because we are almost in the first place in Europe – and it is right to share these positive effects evenly among all stakeholders. We are also aware that we are living in a world of cruel capitalism, which I do not like to see one percent of earthlings have virtually 99% of their property or wealth. In fact, I am trying to create a fairer division through dialogue, and that is why I am trying to do it myself. However, if this dialogue does not establish some normal relations, I agree that this law, which is now ready, will need to be upgraded in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u133	Mr. Andrej Chuš, you have the floor for the final thought. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you. I would like to thank my fellow Members from Koroška. If you two could be in some government circles or rooms, I think there'd be a lot less conflict because you're acting very condescending and positive, so thank you and also thank you for that. See, as has been found, the only alternative to this rotten compromise or whatever you will call it is the adoption of the Trade Act. The things that my colleague Horvath was talking about — unfortunately all of these things cannot be included in the new Trade Law because there are many other areas. It is, however, the fact that the law is before us and in an hour or two we will vote on this law, and you are probably aware that the legislative procedure in the first reading is such that, if the law is adopted in the first reading, it goes to a second reading. And on the second and then on the third reading, the law can be duly amended and qualified applicants can make amendments. This could be done by the Government, this could be done by a parliamentary group, I don't know, SDS, SD or SMC, including a Member, and this law could be easily corrected and amended. But I can say that if this law is not adopted, of course we will continue to do so. We will carefully review the magnetograms of these meetings, the positions of the parliamentary groups, the government – the government has already said so much through the minister in the media, and I also thank him that as one of the few ministers he has recognized the good intentions and objectives of this law, so I hope that he will do so in the future. Of course, we will sit down with the legal profession and try all these comments, although there were very few of them, hand in hand, and I am very surprised that this law is opposed, and of course we will prepare this law properly with our professional colleagues and volunteers and, of course, try again. At that time, I will also be interested in what will be the position of the government and of you, because there is nothing else you can do. Thus you have in your decision a law that we must adopt, or a compromise between the social partners, which I can say continues to preserve a catastrophic state. When you were talking about a colleague or acquaintance from Koroška who has an open trade on Sunday and is probably also the owner of the trade – in this case it is her, we can say, a free enterprise initiative, which is also protected by the constitution. We also propose in the bill that anyone who consciously decided to have a trade, that is, a trader and work on Sundays, be able to work as well as his immediate family members — not a problem! On the other hand, 99.9% of traders and traders cannot decide or are not given to decide whether to work on Sundays because they simply have to work. But the owner can come and work, boss, for example, Mercator, Tuša, and he can work on Sunday if it's a free enterprise initiative; that's the other side of this medal again. This law protects and protects a free economic initiative and in no way erases it, but we have several purposes in this law. Once again, I repeat that we will continue to do so until this law is passed. We are also bound by 15,000 signatures of support from citizens and citizens, and you know that it is difficult to collect signatures; in bad weather, in rain, we drove snow, I can say, across Slovenia. Since my colleague Horvath was talking about some sort of a solution to local interests, I must say that I did almost 10,000 kilometers in November alone and did travel Slovenia. Until this law is passed, we will continue to do so. If this does not go through today, I can point out that we are more than well motivated and also very moved in this support, even because of shocking stories, so we will not give up and go to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u135	This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is fit for further application, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. With this, I interrupt the 18th item of the agenda. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal for a final account, namely the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance mag. Sasha the Badger.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u136	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Nicely greeted! Before you, the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 submitted by the Government with the final report of the Court of Auditors and the explanations for not taking into account individual proposals for corrections to the auditor for adoption. Over the past year, 96% of planned revenue, namely 7.2 billion tax revenues, 571 million non-tax revenues, 46 million capital revenues and 478 million European Union funds received, was incurred in the state budget. A billion €29 million was collected from income, which means 5% more than the plan and is due to favourable labour market conditions. 7 % of the higher income from corporate income tax is due to business well-being. VAT revenues amounted to 3 billion 272 million, 3% less than planned. We also collected a billion 560 million excise duties, 34 million more than plans. The only major deviation on the revenue side is the funds received from the European Union, which amounted to 48 % of the planned. The gap in this area is mainly due to the lower absorption of cohesion policy and the fact that we expected significantly more from European funds for migration and internal security when planning for intensive migration flows during that autumn 2015. Because of our lower needs, we have received less of this money, and spending has also been lower, so that the EU is neutral in terms of its impact on the balance of the state budget. On the expenditure side, we spent exactly EUR 9 billion, which is 540 million and 6% less than the plans. Direct labour costs amounted to a billion 127 million, a 1.9% increase according to the plan. Expenditure on goods and services amounted to 711 million, 4 % more than planned. Interest amounted to a billion 64 million, or according to the forecast. A billion 212 million transfers were paid to individuals and households, virtually at the planned level, of which 499 million for family benefits and parental benefits, 253 million for social security, for unemployed 177 million. Investment expenditure and transfers amounted to EUR 528 million and 66% planned for the already mentioned lower EU spending. We have paid 427 million euros in the European Union budget, which is 4% more than we planned and is due to the ratification of the 2014-2016 budget decision, so that we have paid retroactively an additional amount, Republic of Slovenia 19 million and a half, from here this difference. In relation to the EU budget, we have reached a net budget surplus of €40 million. The budget deficit amounted to EUR 684.8 million and was lower than planned. The receipts of the financial claims and investments account amounted to EUR 630 million, here is the main purchase of Nova KBM, and the payment of the cash guarantees from Factor Bank and Probank. The expenditure amounted to EUR 498 million, of which EUR 284 million was an increase in capital shares, 109 million in foreign exchange collateral guarantees from the Ljubljana Bank, and 131 million in the so-called B balance sheet account. We are owed 2.9 billion, but we have paid off 3.6 billion debts, or we have a net increase of €651 million, so the debt of the state budget is 31. 12. 2016 amounted to €27.1 billion and 67.8% of gross domestic product and declined nominally by €150 million. The final account is also part of a pooled balance sheet showing funds and resources of EUR 31 billion 199.9 million. The Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation in the draft accounts of the Budget and did not deliver an opinion for the review of the balance sheet. With regard to the irregularities identified in the audit report, both for the final account and for the summary balance sheet, we coordinated with the Court of Auditors during the year at bilateral meetings. On the basis of the proposed solutions, which we also mentioned in the summary balance response report, we expect that corrective measures will be defined as satisfactory in the post-revision report and that the credibility of the data will be improved and a minor error detected in the review of the balance sheet will also be recognised by the Court of Auditors. I suggest you accept the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u137	The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I'm giving the president a word. Mr Andre Shirtz to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Public Finance Supervisory Commission shall meet at its 48th regular session on 23 July. 11. 2017 as the parent working body considered the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 submitted by the Government under Article 97, paragraph 5, of the Public Finance Act to the National Assembly for adoption. At the beginning of the meeting, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance presented some basic data on the implementation of the budget, namely on balance sheet A on the revenue and expenditure of the State budget, balance sheet B on the accounts of financial claims and investments, and on balance sheet C on the financing account. The representative of the Ministry of Public Administration then presented a salary analysis in the public sector for 2016. The gross wage amount increased by 5.4% compared to the previous year, by 5.7%, by 1.9%, by 8.8% and by 4.5% on-call. The first Deputy President of the Court of Auditors said that, following the revision of the draft accounts, they had given an opinion with reservations on the general part of the accounts and also on the correctness of their execution. He estimated that the Court of Auditors’ findings were very similar to those of previous years and that errors were similar and were actually decreasing. With regard to the general part of the final account, he pointed out some cases of books which led to their view that revenue and expenditure were not properly reported. Expenditure should be higher by 0.04% and revenue by 0.1%. In the Court’s view, expenditure in the financial claims and investments account is overestimated by 2,7 % and revenue is undervalued by 0,4 %. With regard to the correctness of the implementation of the budget, the representative of the Court of Auditors explained that they had given an opinion with reservation due to numerous violations of the laws which are repeated annually. The Supreme Auditor of the Court of Auditors then attached an audit of the summary balance sheet, issued a decision rejecting the issue of an opinion for three reasons, namely the lack of credible documentation for fixed assets transferred to the Ministry of Infrastructure, insufficient and inadequate documentation to confirm long-term operating claims and insufficient analytical records and poor control over claims for assets placed in management. The debate raised the question of when we can expect a positive opinion on the Draft Final Account of the State Budget. The representatives of the Court of Auditors said that there was not enough to do so, as the year-to-year situation was improving and, on the other hand, there were still problems mainly with the understanding of the laws and the Ministry of Finance or the Government had repeatedly done so by amending the laws instead of correcting the error and, in fact, correcting the error in some way. Next question. There was a debate on the poor use of EU funds, as we have drawn less than half of the funds foreseen for 2016. Here the Secretary of State said it was a transition from the previous to the new financial perspective. This is a problem because the documents are not prepared in time and things are supposed to be improved and predict that they will be better year after year. With regard to the cumulative balance sheet, given that the most problems in the area of infrastructure were raised, the question of what impact this has on the construction of the second track was raised. Representatives of the Government did not have this information at the meeting and promised to obtain it and to mediate it afterwards. A further issue related to the aggregate balance sheet was also the country's long-term investment. The debate also drew attention to the high growth of gross wages and additional employment in public administration. After discussion, the Commission adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that, following consideration under Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the final accounts of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u139	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, colleagues and others present! The final account follows each end of the year, usually following the adoption of the country's budget for the next two years, which, logically, would require an exact reverse order. Why? Because looking at past data can give us a very clear picture of how successful we have been in creating our own policies. It seems totally unfair for us to view this document as just last year's snow as something that has passed and that we no longer have an impact. True, we cannot change the data backwards, but we can make the maximum effort to learn from past mistakes and take a path that will to the greatest extent overcome the identified shortcomings. Here again, we recall the consideration of the Court of Auditors' opinion, which, for the fifth time, highlighted the same necessary corrections and called for the urgent adoption of the relevant legislation, so we are not surprised that it has reissued its opinion with reservation. In short, if we draw the line, there's still a lot of room for progress. We can be satisfied with higher tax revenues because more than €7 billion of tax revenue has been generated in the state treasury, which is 0.6% higher than originally planned. Of course, there is still too much tax collection and, in particular, contributions, which is why we cannot be too excited about Furs and the Ministry of Finance. After so many years of independence, they failed to achieve the share of the contributions collected, as provided by the former Social Accounting Service, known as SDK, before Slovenia's independence. Not to mention that the amount of all taxation of the country is below the average of the European Union, with particular reference to low taxation of profits and property. So, the most powerful. Could there be some peace in there, please? In the Desus Group, we are well aware that such financial resources are more than necessary for the smooth payment of social transfers and for the functioning of health and pension funds, education, culture and other public systems, so we will always point out that Furs and the competent ministry are not effective enough to remedy the shortcomings. As we are also aware that we have again a slightly lower state transfer to a pension fund weighing slightly more than EUR 1.3 billion, resulting from higher social contributions payments, which will gradually allow the abolition of all pension reduction measures that have been paid in the years of the financial and resulting economic and social crisis. Higher contributions are mainly due to a higher number of employees. The Desus Group is pleased that we have been able to re-coordinate pensions on a regular basis since 2015, and in addition to extraordinary coordination, until including 2018, thanks to the provision resulting from the successful negotiations of Desus on the coalition agreement. Also, the annual allowance, so called regression, will be restored to all pensioners in a socially fair manner, contrary to the proposals of some who have only shown by their proposals that they do not have a sufficient sense of social justice. The fact that Slovenia has strongly strengthened economic growth, which was more than 3% last year, has also helped to defrost the growth of pensioners. What if we just take the numbers off for a second and focus on the hottest areas. At least for the Desus Group, this is a pension system, social and health care. In Desus we also advocate fair conditions in the labour market, for public education and for an appropriate place of science, culture, agriculture, other economic areas and so on. The coordinated operation of all these systems will create prospects for young people, young families and also ensure the success of those systems that are not yet working satisfactorily. Recently, we also asked the President of the Government for priorities in releasing austerity measures. We cannot go beyond the fact that appetites are growing, whether the real return of the country to the pre-crisis level or simply a tool for populism right before the parliamentary elections. It is sad that in all this circus, some people lose their compass and forget their real priorities, since each ethical and responsible company should first take care of the most vulnerable groups. For Desus, it is unacceptable for some to place both social and health policies on their heads by first taking care of the elites and then sharing them with the rest of the population. The analysis of salaries in the public sector, which is an integral part of today's material, shows that the average number of employees increased by 1.6%, while the volume of gross wages in 2016 increased by 5.4%. All well and good, but when, despite the fact of poverty and the low wages of many other groups of citizens, the largest coalition party without the consent of its coalition partners adopts a regulation that raises wages for those with the highest wages, it does not seem fair or reasonable to us in Desus. Similarly, the Government takes care of the salaries of the best-paid doctors, breaks standards for parts of doctors, creating a crowd of people who can no longer reach a doctor, not to mention too long-term waiting lines that endanger human health and life. We do not agree with such a policy in Desus, and the sentences of the public sector are already at the door. This way we won't get far. First, it is necessary to help the most vulnerable groups, and this is not just any floscule, that each political party adopts its own part of the audience, but the real situation, depending on which groups are more sensitive, is pushed away to rob if you want. Economic growth has really put the wind in the sails of Slovenia, but it has not magically blown away poverty. More than 54% of pensioners receive a pension of up to EUR 600 and almost 17% of pensioners last year lived below the poverty risk threshold, which is more than a year earlier. Social and pension policy is more socially equitable for the most vulnerable elderly, as we have repeatedly pointed out in Desus, even when this minister is being interpreted. It is a sad fact when we boast at all the bells at the same time at the same time as economic growth. Last year we created €40.4 billion of gross domestic product, so it should not be too much of a problem for us to distribute the money to those who are still barely spending the month. Also, the minimum wage of €614 net is not such as to be able to say that a worker with it can sustain himself and his family with dignity. Above all, the minimum wage has not been raised to a level that would exceed the poverty risk threshold of €616 in 2016. In the Desus Group, we unitedly supported the Left's proposal to raise the minimum wage to €700, but unfortunately other political parties did not. Nor is it possible to expect decent pensions without decent wages, for which we keep working in the Desus Group. The President of the Government of Dr Mir Cerar, the Government and the competent minister responsible for the labour market, the social and pension system, we have repeatedly called on the Members of Desus to pay a decent minimum wage on the questions he has been sent, and also to return to the level of pensions, as if there had been no pension freeze in 2010-2015. According to the PPIZ calculations, pensioners are deprived of 8.4% of pensions due to the freezing of pensions. Since there was no hearing to eliminate the deprivation of pensioners in those cases, Members Desus prepared such a law ourselves and put it into the parliamentary procedure. Part of the deprivation will be compensated in 2018 with extraordinary coordination of pensions and the remaining reduction under the proposed law by 2022, when pensions, in addition to regular coordination, are to be coordinated exceptionally. As pensions are a constitutionally protected category, it is not permissible for pensioners to bear the burden of the past financial crisis even in years of high economic growth. In Desus, we believe that 334 million euros, as far as the financial impact of the law without regular harmonisation, should not be a problem for a country that records high economic growth and gross social product over EUR 40 billion per year. It is also concerned about the health situation of children, women, and the elderly. Although the health department has received some additional financial injections from the budget, it is only a drop on the dried floor of the health system, as public health resources in our country are excessively low compared to those in comparable countries. At the same time, the public health system continues to deteriorate because the competent Minister of Health does not know or does not want to establish effective professional supervision of treatment, to eliminate unacceptable long waiting periods and to break with the bi-living system of the work of doctors. The current health policy measures and the absence of proper measures allow for the further degradation of the public health system in the interests of private interests and put patients in an increasingly disadvantaged position. We have often warned about all of this in Desus. In the Desus Group, we will continue to strive for a public health system that will benefit patients, a condition on the labour market, that workers receive fair pay for honest work, a socially just social system and a socially just pension system so that they do not produce the poor. The proposal for the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 will, of course, be supported in the Desus Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u141	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u142	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! The Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 was prepared by the Government and shows the actual implementation of the budget in the previous year. It is important that, by amending the Public Finance Act, we have also allowed the Court of Auditors to revise the final account, but also, of course, as a parent working body, the final accounts of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. The conclusions and conclusions on the closure of this year remain the same as in previous years. As a positive shift, and as a result of favourable economic trends and, above all, greater population consumption, it is reflected in higher revenues in the budget as planned. It is also important to note that this final account passes over to the period of budgetary surpluses. The budget thus generates savings, but of course it is necessary to know that fiscal rules will not allow these savings to reach people, even though it is people who have contributed to the filling of the bank hole. When we look at the situation or interesting information in this report, for EUR 258,8 million, the proceeds are mainly due to purchases for the New Credit Bank Maribor. If we were to sell the New Bank of Credit Maribor at least at book value, there would be an additional EUR 258 million in addition to this additional EUR 400 million more than planned, but if we sold this bank at the most favourable time for the country, we would certainly be able to talk about billions. And, of course, we would have no problem with how to provide for lost income, raise pensions, and, of course, raise people's standard. While the Court of Auditors has reissued its opinion with reservation in its audit, it points out the same findings as in the past years, which go mainly to So, it is mainly at the expense of integrating the auditor's corrections into the final account itself. [[…]] However, it would make more sense to consider the proposal of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors, who proposed that the Commission should adopt a decision and reject the proposal for a final account, allowing the Government to introduce the auditors' corrections into the final account. The Commission has not adopted such a decision, indicating that there is still insufficient willingness to clear the text and content of the final account in the same way as the Court of Auditors has audited it. Therefore, this will certainly need to be taken more seriously in the future than it has been in the past period. In the context of the consideration of the final budget account this year, we are also considering material relating to the analysis of salaries in the public sector prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration. This analysis notes that in the past year, the volume of wage funds increased, however, as it was only for long years of savings and as a result of austerity measures, some rises were also due to urgent new employment where it was most critical and where services were to be provided to people. However, we are sure that this phenomenon of wage rise in the public sector will not in any way compromise the stability of the budget. Finally, it is also from this sector that people have contributed the most to the stability of the cash register and that we can talk about having more revenue than budget expenditure. While we will support the majority of the accounts in the Group of Members, we will support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u143	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u144	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! As each year, the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for the preceding year also deal with the Court of Auditors' opinion, and this year the Court of Auditors has made several comments on the proposal for a final budget account. The First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors said at a meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision that the findings were very similar to those of previous years and that mistakes were almost identical, similar. With regard to the general part of the final account, he pointed out some cases of books which led to their view that revenue and expenditure were not properly shown. According to their calculations, expenditure in the income and expenditure balance should be higher by 0.04% and revenue by 0.01%. However, expenditure in the financial claims and investments account is overestimated by 2,7 % and income in the same balance sheet is undervalued by 0,4 %. The Court of Auditors also delivered an opinion with reservations to the final account; the reason for the reservation is a number of infringements of the laws which are repeated year after year. The first Deputy President of the Court of Auditors has also pointed out the low absorption of EU funds and the fact that the Court of Auditors has been making corrections to the auditor since 2011, which the Government has never taken into account before. So the same mistakes are repeated year after year, which is what we are really worried about in New Slovenia. The representative of the Court of Auditors pointed out at the meeting of the Commission that the Court of Auditors had already requested the same or similar corrections this year for the fifth time, which the Government had rejected again. Some shortcomings were also highlighted by the Supreme State Auditor of the Court of Auditors. I really don't understand the Government's reason for repeating the same mistakes, and on the other hand, there's no hearing that these mistakes, which are one and the same, have gone to finally see that corrections are needed. Public sector wage analyses for 2016, which were presented at the meeting of the Commission, also show that the volume of gross salary resources increased by 5.4% compared to the previous year, by 5.7%, and by 1.9%, by 8.8% for full-time work and by 4.5% for on-call work. In New Slovenia, on this occasion, we reiterate the following that the fruits of economic growth should be felt by all citizens, not just those employed in the public sector. This, ladies and gentlemen, can only be done by reducing the tax burden on everyone, in particular to reduce the tax burden on work and consumption. In fact, the high-tax policy shows a great lack of confidence in the ability of citizens to manage the money they themselves earn. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage them instead. Christian Democrats are therefore committed to changing such a policy; in Slovenia, wages are too low, because too much of the people's earnings are really just a country. In New Slovenia, we will change this by changing tax policy and raising wages for all, not just some in the public sector. So, the solution for higher wages based on the New Slovenia key, respected by the Government, is lower tax burdens. In view of the comments made by the Court of Auditors on the Proposal for the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016, and in particular because of this malpractice, there is absolutely no hearing for the mistakes made in the past, which are repeated year after year, to correct these errors, but we will not support this proposal in Novi Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u145	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u146	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The final account of the State budget is a fact implemented fact. Nor did the Court of Auditors find any major irregularities and therefore gave an opinion with reservation, but it is true that errors are repeated year after year and that mistakes are minor year after year. That is how I would like to see the time finally come for the Court of Auditors to deliver a positive opinion on the implementation of the State budget. We will not, of course, oppose the final account in our Group of Members, but I would like to draw attention to some facts. The revenue, in particular those tax revenue, has indeed been realised mainly as planned by the Government in the adopted budget. There is a big difference when we talk about the money we get from Europe or we could get it from Europe. It is implemented in less than 50 %. Thus, the government has made a mistake — deliberately, unintentionally — for almost 500 million euros. When we look at the expenditure, the number is roughly the same. Here, too, the realisation is about EUR 500 million lower than planned. But there are two categories of derogations. One is investment and investment transfers, we are talking about investments together. The planned funds amounted to EUR 800, 804 million, if I am accurate, realised at EUR 527 million or as much as EUR 277 million as the plan was. I think the question here is why. Is it wrong for this government to stop implementing the state budget every year in September? Every year, even this year, there's no exception. Despite the enormously higher revenues that we had at the time of the crisis, obviously the Government can't do anything but forcefully stop the budget in some way. This is absolutely wrong. The second category, which is the most declining, is the funds earmarked for pensions. You have somehow taken EUR 84 million away from the pensioners and EUR 84 million was provided in the budget and they have not reached the pensioners. In 2015 60, in 2016 80 million, in 2017 80 million and in 2018 you have already reduced the budget already adopted by 80 million euros. This means 300 million euros in four years of this government. The funds earmarked for pensioners and pensions did not eventually reach the pensioners. And now, in 2019, something is supposed to be done. Is that fair? Is it fair that for four years you reduce the funds that were earmarked for pensioners in 2019 when you are gone and you promise them something? Of course, it's not fair and it's just about populism.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u147	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, colleague and colleague! The 2016 final accounts proposed reflect the final outcome of the 2016 economic policy. The budgetary policy target for 2015 was to reduce the country's deficit below 3% of GDP. This decreased to 2.92% of GDP and in 2016 the fiscal effort target was 0.6 GDP. This is how the Government planned in autumn 2015 to reduce the deficit of the sector to 2.22 GDP in 2016. In 2016, according to SURS, the deficit in the balance of the state sector amounted to EUR 733 million, or 1.8 GDP. So he was even lower than the pawned one. It was also a better result for the state budget. The government set a budgetary target in autumn 2015 for the deficit to amount to almost €840 million in 2016. The implementation of the 2016 state budget shows that €684 million of the budget deficit and €154.5 million were less than planned. This results mainly in lower spending of European funds. Worse drawing problems are due to the fact that documents in Slovenia and the rest of the EU were not prepared at the time of the transition to a new financial perspective. Here I would point out that even in the previous perspective, the first two years were very low on European funds. However, it also contributed significantly to the reduction in the debt of the state budget. At the end of 2015, the debt of the state budget amounted to EUR 279 million, or 70.7% of GDP, fell by EUR 150 million in 2016, amounting to EUR 27 000 129 million and EUR 67.8. The reduction in the debt of the state budget indicates a very successful management with the debt of the state budget. For 2016, in January 2017, the Treasury Directorate at the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia was awarded the name of the administrator with the risks of the year’s sovereign debt. Slovenia was awarded the prize because the Treasury Directorate conducted three purchases of state bonds denominated in dollars totalling $2.61 billion between May and October 2016 and replaced them simultaneously with the issuance of cheaper bonds in euros. The Republic of Slovenia issued dollar bonds between 2012 and 2014, when access to euro financial instruments was restricted or inaccessible due to the financial crisis. Such results would not be possible if Slovenia did not restore confidence in the financial markets. Political stability and measures in the area of stabilisation of public finances in 2015 were key for this. Thus, due to the successful reduction of the public financial deficit below the 3 % of GDP reference rate in 2015, Slovenia withdrew from the surplus deficit procedure after seven years in June 2016. However, with regard to the results of the fiscal policy for 2016, it is necessary to say that the Fiscal Council, following a review of macroeconomic and public financial developments, assessed that Slovenia had complied with fiscal rules in 2016 during a period in which Slovenia had not yet achieved the medium-term fiscal objective. This is an expert assessment of the Fiscal Council and not of politicians. With regard to the debt reduction of the State sector, the Fiscal Council, in its written opinion, said that if the 2016 rule were to apply, the debt of the State sector should be reduced by 1.2 percentage points in 2016 and the actual debt reduction was even 3.4 percentage points of GDP. This would require a reduction in debt in 2016 to be exceeded by almost three times. The debt reduction rule will apply after the end of the transitional period. On the basis of the opinion of the Fiscal Council, this would enter into force in 2019. Nevertheless, debt reduction in the proportion of GDP and also in the actual amount of budgetary policy is a major success for 2016. With regard to the Court of Auditors’ report, it should be said that, on the basis of the findings on the correctness of the implementation of the 2016 State budget, it has delivered an opinion with reservation, as presented by the representatives of the Court of Auditors at the meeting of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, and explained that the errors are similar to those of previous years, but they are decreasing. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we expect that these errors will be even smaller in the future, so that we will be able to deal with final accounts with errors that are less than 2% of the revised funds, so the Court's opinions will also be positive. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we support the decision proposed by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission to the National Assembly to adopt the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 following its consideration under Article 168 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u149	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In general, close the 2016 budget account shows how this government managed taxpayers' money, how it elevated its investments and, of course, how it was indebted; this shows us all three budget balances, balance sheet A, B and C. In doing so, it is necessary to say that all macroeconomic indicators, which are also mentioned and derived from the final account, do not show the actual quality of this management. In particular, the quality of this management is shown, not because the Court of Auditors did not determine whether the budget was budgeted or whether expenditure was spent, but merely by correctness; in other words, whether or not the money was spent in accordance with the law. Of course, we are talking a lot about prudence today, and I'm going to say something myself, but it's completely different here. In particular, this is shown by the European Commission's assessment, which still holds Slovenia a financial risk and has not passed on to so-called Class A, but is still the one under the control of the European Commission on public finances, regardless of how we interpret the fiscal rule and the quality of public finances. What is it, exactly? For the fact that the structural deficit in our country is much greater than the nominal deficit, and this structural deficit actually shows the quality of public finances. The next issue I would like to draw attention to is the question of repeating mistakes, as my colleagues have already said. In fact, what the Government has done here – in fact, the error is getting smaller, but instead of correcting the mistakes, the Government, of course through the National Assembly, has in many cases preferred to change the law. As in the Constitutional Court's decision and then the desire to amend the Constitution with regard to education. This is not the right way; instead of correcting the mistake you have made and it is a long mistake, you simply resolve it by correcting the law. Here in some ways the government brings around itself and on the other hand also the National Assembly. Thus, both the quality and the correctness of the budget implementation have not been substantially corrected. We are still talking about this here – and the Court of Auditors is talking about this – that the Government does not respect the provisions of the Public Finance Act, that it does not respect the provisions of the Public Finance Act, that it does not respect contracts, that there is no regularity in the award of public contracts and that there is a delay in payments. Here we are talking about expenditure, and at the expense of these 4 components are the biggest problem in fact. Moreover, transfers actually involve irregularities in the procedures for the very execution of public calls and calls. It is also a matter of transfers that the Public Finance Act is not respected and that the Government does not respect it. There was also no conditions for the provision of infrastructure for free use, no delays in payments, no lack of supervision of direct budgetary users over indirect budgetary users or the operation of legal persons, no lack of supervision, no public service, no provision of economic public service was made in the form prescribed and no contracts were respected. This is what the Court of Auditors says when it assesses the budget. When it assesses or at all cannot assess the balance sheet when we are talking about the entire property of the country, I mean, of course, property mainly in real estate, in fact, the Court of Auditors has not even issued an opinion. Why didn't he give an opinion? Because he doesn't have the data. The Court of Auditors’ failure to give an opinion is worse than giving a negative opinion. For a negative opinion, the Court of Auditors needs 10% of all data and notes that this is a 10% irregularity, up to 10% irregularity. In the opinion with reservation, it has already been limited, it is 3% and so on. But if he doesn't issue an opinion, then he doesn't have any information. Of course, this is also what the Court of Auditors is talking about, when we are talking about the property of the State and when we are talking about property in particular, basic assets, it is simply that the government does not have credible documentation for fixed assets, especially those that have been transferred to the Ministry of Infrastructure. What is really going to happen here is what is happening with our railway infrastructure or that railway infrastructure that is supposed to be built somewhere in the future, that we are talking a lot about the second track this year, whether all the documentation is provided here and whether the government has all the documentation that this project can even begin. We have a message from the government or the government's response. In addition, the Court of Auditors has found insufficient and inadequate documentation to confirm long-term operating claims and lack of analytical records and poor control over assets claims made in management. Of course, because there is simply no data on what this country has, what is its property, the Court of Auditors has therefore not issued an opinion. As a result, of course, it is very difficult to say in this case that the 2016 final account is good, that the final account is better and that it is actually substantially better, as the final account itself does not show. There is no data and, on the other hand, it solves irregularities by changing the government's law in many cases. Of course that's not good. Because of these matters, of course, we will not approve or vote in favour of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of the Final Account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u151	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate. Since all the interviewees have checked out, the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag, has the floor. Sasha Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to respond to some of the questions raised in the presentation, i.e., the views of the groups of Members. And I'm gonna go straight ahead. All land for the second track is purchased or acquired as a prime law. The right to build is demonstrated in all parcels. The entries in the land book are in progress. That was the first point. Secondly, when several references were made to the Court of Auditors and how certain errors occur consistently and consistently. The fact is, with the Court of Auditors, we stand on various points of view in some cases. We just can't decide whether the money is in the SPS account, whether it's loans, or whether it's assets, or the state of the account. But as we have said today, or as you have heard from several sources, with the Court of Auditors on a regular basis, I can say regularly, we sit and talk about these open cases because it is in the interest of us, or especially the Government, that there will be as few differences as possible and that, for once, there will also be an opinion in the closing account, that it would be without reservation or that it would be positive. Perhaps what has now been mentioned in the end is that the Court of Auditors does not have the relevant data. Here I would like to mention that just when there is supposed to be a lack of reliable data on infrastructure resources, we already have more than 85% of this sorted here. When the Court of Auditors first pointed out this, this percentage was significantly lower. The fact is that in this area, in all areas where we have long-standing differences with the Court of Auditors, we are working to minimise or harmonise them. The third story exposed was the EU's funds or very low-restriction over the past year. Here, however, I would like to point out that the EU is, of course, not lost, but transferred to next year. We have been given a concrete envelope, which does not decrease as much as you spend it in the current year, so much more remains to be done, and in fact we can also look on the positive side that our economy or our country achieves high economic growth without the intensive use of EU funds and that this EU envelope, which is three billion and 11 million, remains or will contribute to a favourable economic climate in the future. And I could also say here that it has now been allocated, I have from data, to state 30. 11. that it has already been allocated by the managing authority for a billion 700, already over a billion 700 of these funds from three billion, that more than half of them have been contractually linked to more than 600 billion, and that even in payments and certification, we have now taken a step forward in the last month. It refers to the EU funds and to the suspension of the budget. The Minister of Finance, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, must issue more detailed instructions on the completion of the year by 30 September of the current year. Thus, in particular this year, budget users have been able to assume obligations under the rules at the end of the year up to and including 5 October, and beyond this deadline in exceptional cases, or if I am more precise, an exception for one specific purpose is already in principle applicable in this commitment and, in the meantime, the EU is essentially the means. Thus, there are no such restrictions in the use of EU funds, while in the case of integral resources it is necessary to issue instructions on how long it is allowed to assume commitments and to transmit documentation so that matters can be carried out this year, because this needs to be taken into account or taken into account in the liquidity situation of the budget and to observe or follow the target deficit. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u153	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. He does. I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrey Shircelj. Five minutes, as usual.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think I'm gonna spend less than five minutes, but I'd like to remind you of something actually. Actually, it's the way. The way in which we are established in our country, which means we are no longer a rule of law. Even now, when the secretary of state said: "Look, we have so many and so many mistakes in this budget, but the professional starting points are different, which makes it impossible for me and the Court of Auditors to deal with this, this and this." See, the Court of Auditors is the supervisory authority and the Court of Auditors actually controls the correctness of the budget, the implementation of the budget for each year. In this case, especially since these cases are repeated year after year, the government has only one option — to do what the Court of Auditors says. Then there's talk of professional starting points. Like, if you want to talk about decisions of the Constitutional Court, when you decide something and then the executive or legislative authority has to do it, regardless of whether you want, professional, secular or any other starting point. This is the foundation of the rule of law. Once this is done, it can be discussed again whether the solution is good or not. Because if we do that, look, then we'll just get to the fact that we legal states actually don't have it now and we'll be in a worse position than we are now. [[…]] If we do not adhere to certain rules in this country and give them to supervisory institutions and we do not overthink them by amending the law or by amending the Constitution because of a constitutional decision, see, it is in this country but, even if we are talking about law and the rule of law, it is simply not. [[…]] This means the breakdown of the rule of law in this budget. That's actually what this is about! I would ask – this is the answer, of course, with the wish that there will be no more reservations to the budget – that you simply take into account and do what the Court of Auditors says about the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u155	I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the proposal for a final account in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 26th item of the agenda. This concludes the 23rd item of the agenda. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a conclusion on the cessation of the procedure for the dissolution of the municipal world of the population of the Costa Rica. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 42nd meeting, on 24. 11. 2017 as a parent working body in the context of the preparation of the Proposal for a Decision terminating the procedure for the dissolution of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk under the second paragraph of 90c. Articles of the Law on Local Self-Government and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly adopted the Proposal for a Decision terminating the procedure for the dissolution of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk. For the first time, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica na Krka on 28 October 2017 adopted the Decree on the budget of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk for 2017 and the Decree on the budget of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk for 2018. The municipal council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka, by adopting the decrees of the previous point, abolished the illegal conduct which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia concluded by a decision on the abolition of illegal conduct in this municipality, code EPA 2031/VII, which was adopted at the 33rd meeting on 26 September 2017. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 90c of the Law on Local Self-Government, the procedure for the dissolution of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka shall be suspended. This shall be sent for consideration and acceptance by the National Assembly. The decree on the budget of the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk for 2017 and the Decree on the budget of the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk for 2018 were published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 61/17 of 2 November 2017 On the basis of the above, the National Assembly finds that, within the time limit set by the decision, the illegal conduct found has been abolished and that the procedure for its dissolution by this Decision is hereby terminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u157	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Social Democrats are pleased that the municipal councillors of the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk have found, after two years of unlawful conduct, that a compromise and a budget should be adopted, since otherwise the extreme force of the dissolution of the municipal council of the municipality would be used, as provided for by the Law on Local Self-Government. The illegal conduct was abolished by the municipal council when it adopted the 2017 budget and the 2018 budget. Otherwise, this adoption was the last day of the deadline set for him, so the procedure for the early dissolution of the congregation council is also halted. At the same time, I would like to point out that, with such a decision and with such conduct, none of those involved are satisfied; neither is the mayor who thought it would be good for him to have a new composition of the municipal council, nor are the municipal councilors who felt that the mayor should leave town and have the new mayor's election, but that has not happened. Who did what was right and how it would be right will be decided by the voters at the next local elections, who was right. With all that we have heard and have been informed in writing, however, it is clear that in the coming years we will have to think about the need for changes in the field of local self-government if the municipal council does not accept the budget and that illegal conduct is not allowed for as long as it is now defined in the current Law on Local Self-Government. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the decision to stop the procedure for the dissolution of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka, while, for the last time this year, allow me to wish all in the coming year more patience and conversation and – all good! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u159	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, President, a nice greeting to everyone! At the end of September, the National Assembly adopted a decision setting the 30-day deadline for the abolition of the illegal situation for the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk. Since 2015, the municipality has been without a valid budget. At that time, we in Levica pointed out that the position of this particular congregation is the most beautiful proof of how much we need to reform local self-government, on behalf of the Left, this is already the mandate of the Tulim. Although Minister Koprivnikar had an excellent opportunity in this mandate to carry out at least the first round of this reform, this did not happen. The Minister dealt with everything else, including the binging of helicopters during visits to the United States and the situation in the field of local self-government is getting worse. We have a poor development strategy and we have mini marriage proposals that are often in direct conflict with this. Kostanjevica na Krka is not the only municipality in Slovenia that has now been or has been caught in a rift between saints and the mayor, but is the only case that we are considering in the National Assembly. The current system allows 10 municipal councillors and one mayor to hold all citizens and citizens in check. Such a system is simply insurmountable, especially if the reason for peripetia is an unfulfilled pre-election promise of how and to whom a small amount of money will be distributed. The local elections were in October 2014, the municipality was without a valid budget for three years, i.e. a developmental backlog, a lower quality of life for citizens and citizens, no investment, no European funds, and even though the National Assembly would have dissolved the municipal council, one mandate would have been lost. The summary came from municipal officials on the last day of the expiry of the deadline after which the process of dissolution would have been initiated. On the last day of the deadline, budgets were adopted. We doubt that because they were aware that they were the ones causing the most harm to their own citizens and citizens. We also doubt that the situation will change. If 11 municipal officials have not been able to hold a budget meeting in the last three years or have been able to carry out a budget meeting, it is likely that peripetions and conjectures in the pre-election year will even increase. No matter what, citizens and citizens can do absolutely nothing. After giving their vote in 2014, they can, no matter what, in particular, wait for the four-year term to expire. But it could be different. If most of the parties in this House were not intimidated by their mayors, today they would have an institution to call off the mayor. Citizens and citizens could call off the mayor or saints as soon as it becomes clear that they have four years or a few years of stagnation ahead of them, so that no project can be carried out to reduce their quality of life. The mayors and congregational councillors would think very carefully about what they are doing and how they are doing. But the customers who had the most or most of the local officials were against it. SDS, SD, Desus and NSI voted against the establishment of the mayor's recall institute. Unfortunately. As at local level, the party also has its own interest and advantage on the part of some of the parties mentioned, both socially and nationally, if you wish. As at local level, only voters at national level are able to change this. Unfortunately, it's still only every four years without a chance to call it off. On behalf of the Left, I also congratulate you on your holidays, including that of the state. In the coming year, in the coming term, I want more solidarity, more tolerance, of course, and I want the right to go in the direction of justice. But in the next term, I want, even if I'm not in there to actually be those in the National Assembly who have to deal with politics, but not those who might want it and will be enough, a lot more minds and less than minds and stereotyped minds. All good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u161	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Since the Kosovo Councillors did not accept the necessary budgetary documents for two years in a row, the competent Ministry of Public Administration of the Government proposed the dissolution of the municipal council and supported and forwarded the proposal to the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall meet on 26. 9. 2017 adopted the Decision on the abolition of illegal conduct in the Municipality of Kostanjevica na Krka, warned the municipal council of its illegal conduct and invited it to remedy the illegality by adopting the 2017 and 2018 budget within 30 days of receipt of the decision and informing it that the early dissolution procedure will be terminated by a decision if it follows the call. In the SMC Group, we supported the decision on the elimination of illegal behaviour in the Municipality of Kostanjevica, Krka, because it was a government intervention by the state authority into the system of local self-government as an independent system of democratic governance of public affairs in an environment in which all of us live. We therefore welcome the decision of the municipal council to adopt the budget for 2017 and 2018 on the last day of the deadline, as it was only in this way that we could avoid the fact that the National Assembly should dissolve the elected municipal council and call for new elections. Therefore, we will, of course, support the proposal for a decision drawn up by the mother's working body. The dissolution of the Municipality Council of Kostanjevica on Krka would not only be a mark for the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka, but would also be a wider message, that is, that democracy and democratically elected bodies at the level of local communities do not work and that it is also questionable that small municipalities, such as Kostanjevica, operate independently. We are glad that, at last, it has proved that they are capable of solving their local affairs on their own. Nevertheless, we cannot be satisfied that the municipal councilors have so far not been able to find a solution without threats by the dissolution and patronage of the state authorities, the Ministry or the Government and the National Assembly, and for two years in particular, due to political opposition, they have ignored the needs of citizens and citizens. The non-acceptance of the budget prevents the self-regulation of its own affairs in the local community. The budget, as a key financial component of the regulation of the independent management of local affairs, is one of the fundamental components of the very essence of local self-government. If the budget is not adopted, the core tasks in the local community simply cannot be carried out or carried out to a large extent in a limited or substantially fragmented system. At the same time, however, the municipality is subject to development cooperation, i.e. no new investment or debt, nor can it be nominated for European Union funds or State tendering, as it cannot guarantee its own participation. The financing of all public institutions whose founder is the municipality, as well as certain non-governmental organisations, is also difficult and essential. It is not to be overlooked that the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka has been forced to stop or not start 32 projects and that 2017 is in fact already lost and that until the next local elections at the end of 2018 it will be possible to execute only the 2018 budget at the rate of around 2.4 million euros. Still better than nothing, which can't be a comfort to go on. Especially since the media records show that the situation that almost led to the dissolution of the congregation’s world has apparently not changed. Unfortunately, on the basis of the Law on Local Self-Government or on this function, we no longer have the tools available to make it difficult for the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk. The only, and at the same time, most powerful, has been used, which is why citizens and citizens, or voters and voters, are now on the move.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u163	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In September, we decided in the National Assembly that the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk should eliminate illegal conduct or non-regulation, since the municipality did not adopt the budget submitted and prepared for 2017 and 2018 in accordance with the law. In the SDS Group, we have already pointed out in our view that both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Public Administration have been late with strong intervention in this municipality. The situation and situation in the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka have been unsustainable both in terms of funding and implementation of the budget since 2015. In our view, it is undeniably necessary to take into account and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its specific autonomy of local self-government, but it cannot be boundless. The current legislation thus specifies exactly who is the exclusive proponent of the municipal budget and who also accepts it. The separation that has been shown in the case of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka certainly sheds a bad light on the functioning of local self-government as well as on the work or non-reaction of the Government and the Ministry of Public Administration. In the event of more decisive action and action, this agony in the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka would undoubtedly have been completed long ago. Why agony? There is no need to stress the method of funding at all times when, despite the mayor, municipal councillors were unable to agree and adopt the municipal budget. So there have been no calls in the congregation all this time, there have been no investments, no development that would still be needed for the congregations that we talk about several times in the National Assembly, and the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk certainly also belongs to this congregation. However, in the opinion of our parliamentary group of mayors and also of municipal councillors, it was no doubt sobering that the municipal council was just before the dissolution and the new elections. However, the Municipality Council of Kostanjevica in Krk found so much political power and will and at the end of October adopted the budget for 2017 as well as the budget for 2018. This ended the illegality that the National Assembly had warned the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krk in September. Accordingly, we will also vote in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we are pleased to note that it is one of the problems, but unfortunately it has lasted two years, and yet it has also been solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u165	We are going to have a general debate on the proposal for a decision. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you very much again, President. In this matter, I do not think that much more needs to be said, especially because this case has been dealt with in such a substantive manner at the home committee as well as at the National Assembly and also today in the presentation of views. I could only conclude in this context that all Members of this National Assembly share the satisfaction that this matter has been resolved in the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk in the way that it is only right. This means that both the executive and the legislative branch of the authorities, with its competence, should not extend to the local community, irrespective of the fact that it was initially shown in this case that it is necessary to cut down even under the strictest measure, and this is by a decision of the legislative branch of authority, namely, for an action called the dissolution of the municipal council. Therefore, I do not think that there is any need for further clarification, nor do I need to discuss this matter. In this context, however, I would also like to express my request, wish or appeal to all municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia that certain objections which are certainly present in local communities should be settled in a way that does not require such cruel intervention by the executive and legislative branches of power in their independent presence. I think that's enough, and that's my conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u167	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Nobody. So, I conclude the general debate. The amendments to the draft Decision were not tabled. The decision on the proposal for a decision will take place in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end the 26th agenda item and the 36th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-12-19-SDZ7-Redna-36.ana.u168	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 6, 8, 9, 18, 23, 26 and 22 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands by Short Procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the mother labour body proposes to the assembly that the draft law be adopted in the proposed text and since the amendments to the transitional and final provisions have not been tabled, we are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present and 52 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Act on Additional Grants paid for the occasional and temporary work of students and students following the reduced procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes in favour and none in favour. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 8 of the agenda. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Awards and Recognitions for Exceptional Achievements in Scientific Research and Development Activities following the reduced procedure We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled of 18. 12. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 12 votes against and 52 votes against. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 9 of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 11 votes in favour and 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. This concludes the 18th item of the agenda. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 46 votes in favour and 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the Final Account of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2016 has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 23rd item of the agenda. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discontinuation of the procedure for the dissolution of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision terminating the procedure for the dissolution of the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 63 votes in favour and none in favour. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude the 26th item of the agenda. We are moving on to the 22nd item of the agenda, which is to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Employment, Self-Employment and Work Act and the Foreigners Act. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Employment, Self-employment and Work Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes in favour and none in favour. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Aliens Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour and none in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude the 22nd item of the agenda and also the 36th meeting of the National Assembly. You're all kindly invited to the festivities on Friday.
