ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the course of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Jelka Godec, Mrs Erika Dekleva from 12 a.m., Mrs Janja Sluga from 17 a.m., Mrs Urška Ban from 15 a.m. on, Mrs. Vesna Vervega from 15 a.m., Mrs. Ksenija Korenjak Kramar from 17.30 p.m., Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer from 12.45 p.m. to 15 p.m. and from 17.45 p.m. to 7 p.m., Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs. Ljudmila Novak from 18 a.m. on, Mrs. Nada Brinovska from 11.30 p.m., Mrs. Suzana Lep Šimenko from 11.30 p.m. Matthew Tonin from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. and Mr. Janko Weber to 12 p.m. I welcome all the others here. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is to the contrary the proposal of the Act on the Complementation of the Act on the Health Care of Animals and Products and Substances, which comes into contact with animals after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec. At its 24th meeting, on 27 June 2017, the draft law was considered by the Health Committee as the working body of the mother. Following the conclusion of the discussion, the Committee did not adopt the articles of the law, so the second consideration of the draft law was concluded at the meeting of the working body. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Vlasta Wait. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u2	Dear President, Representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As transfatty acids have shown negative effects, it is considered advisable to avoid or consume as little as possible. Against this background, 1% of the energy needs for fat are allowed. The trend in the growth of these fats in foodstuffs can be attributed mainly to increased consumption of prepared or otherwise pre-prepared foods in industrial developed countries. In addition, we now know that the effects of trans-fatty acid produced by the hydrogenation of plant oils are significantly more harmful than those naturally present in foodstuffs of animal origin. Therefore, the Levica Group proposes a solution to extend the range of ingredients that should not be contained in the Food Safety Act and the products of those substances that come in contact with food by adding trans-fatty acids to the list of these ingredients. In the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we support the proposal at the principal level and agree that substances that have proven to have a harmful impact on health should be legally restricted. We were briefed on the activities of the Ministry of Health in this area. The Ministry has classified transfat acid regulation in food as strategic objectives since the adoption of the Resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025. On the basis of the data provided by the national research project, it was possible to identify the introduction of these new foods in Slovenia and, in the next phase, a proposal for a regulation on maximum trans fat content in foodstuffs was prepared. We believe that the regulation of the area under the law is more appropriate as it also provides for supervisory authorities and fines for infringements. The proposal for this Regulation will be adopted by the Ministry in the autumn. This is one of the reasons why we will not support the proposal today. Secondly, Slovenia has, of course, been working for several years at the highest level within the European Union to bring the issue of trans-fatty acids into the food system in a uniform manner throughout the European area, in a similar way with a legislative restriction on the content of this substance. This is not a matter of ignoring the impact on the Single Food Market, which is why a harmonised approach by all members is urgently needed to address this problem. Therefore, it is not appropriate to tackle these problems in a partial manner, but it is more reasonable to follow the procedure led by the Ministry of Health, which captures the issue more comprehensively. Of course, with the same aim of providing citizens with adequate food control and legislation that will allow the health of harmful substances to be no longer part of the food industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u3	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President! Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! The Act on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food lays down the conditions to be met by food, food additives and products and substances that come into contact with food in order to be medically appropriate. In addition, this law also regulates health control over their production. The proposer tabled an amendment with the aim of limiting the content of transfatty acids. The reduction of trans-fat acids is also one of the strategic objectives of the National Programme on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2020, as defined in the Resolution on the National Programme. According to an assessment by the World Health Organisation, transfatty acids represent a serious risk factor. Eating foods containing these fats poses a tenfold higher risk for the development of mainly cardiovascular diseases. After 2012, the availability of food with trans-fat acids is expected to increase significantly in Slovenia. In particular, it is imported foods produced with naturally outdated procedures and cheap raw materials. There is currently no regulation in Slovenia to prohibit or restrict the content of these fats in food. The purpose of the amendment of the law is, therefore, to limit the maximum authorised quantity of trans-fatty acids in foodstuffs and nothing else. The Ministry of Health disagrees with these amendments and considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. In its explanation, it states that the Ministry of Health has already drawn up a regulation on trans fats and has already aligned it with the Ministry of Agriculture. This text of the Regulation goes to public debate. See, fellow Members, the regulation will go to a public debate, and systemic changes to laws, as we discussed yesterday's Medical Services Act, will be adopted by this State Assembly following an urgent procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have of course supported the proposal to amend the law on the Home Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u5	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Good day to you all! Today, for the second time, we are considering a proposal for a new Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances That Come With These Foods, by which the proposer wants to re-limit the level of authorised trans-fatty acid content in the diet. When we discussed the bill a year ago, the ministry committed itself to just preparing a full amendment of the law, because it is actually a law that is obsolete, as the ministry also recognises. Of course, we have not yet seen the promised novelties of the law, but a proposal for a regulation on the maximum content of trans fats in foodstuffs, which was under public treatment by 26 June, is being prepared. Following this time the Ministry of Health, which is preparing this regulation together with the Ministry of Agriculture, is expected to see the adoption of the regulation in September this year. The proposal for a regulation will, according to the Ministry of Health, fully regulate the restriction on trans fat content in foodstuffs, while also laying down supervisory authorities and fines for infringements. In the Desus Group, this time we have found it difficult to support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. This was only because the said regulation was indeed under public scrutiny. We therefore expect the regulation to be adopted in this September, as promised. Otherwise, in our Group of Members, we will no longer support negative decisions based on promises that are not fulfilled. Because the fact is that it is fat that is one of the most common causes of cardiovascular, cancer, diabetes and other diseases. Therefore, this sensitive area must be addressed as soon as possible on the basis of appropriate grounds for determining the criteria for determining the risk to human health. This time, the Desus Group on the home working body has supported the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, but that the Ministry of Health is required to fulfil the promise and regulation on the maximum permitted trans fat content in foodstuffs in September this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are again considering the same proposal that was tabled by the same proposer a year ago. The amendment to the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Substances in Contact with them aims to limit trans fats in foodstuffs, according to the proposaler's explanations. We all agree that trans fats in the diet are a problem that needs to be solved, but we are only different as to the path of the solution that we see. We told the Social Democrats a year ago that we supported such a solution, but then we rejected the proposal because the Ministry of Health had promised a new, fraudulent law, but the Ministry had not fulfilled its promise, and we would then support it. But today we have before us a new proposal for a law and a new fact, and this is that, at this point in time, there is a proposal for a regulation on the maximum allowable content of trans fats in foodstuffs which provides for a similar solution. The text of the Regulation will be followed by a public debate in accordance with the current European legal order and with the requirements also notified to the European Commission. The complete ban on trans fats in food due to the common European market is not possible. Notification is essential as the restriction will bind all providers on the market, not only domestic ones. Some studies show that the trend in the availability of trans fat products has doubled since 2012 in Slovenia. On Slovenian shelves there are more and more food with the health of dangerous trans fats. That is true, we must also convince the European Commission with the results of the official analysis. Before imposing restrictions on national legislation, we must therefore have the results of a study entitled Trans fat in foodstuffs and their population introduction – implications for public health. This study will produce results on the actual state of trans fat content in foods that will be supported by our claims that the quantity of trans fats in the food consumed is so high that we are already at risk of human health, which is why they need to be restricted. The reduction of trans fats in food has also been included by Slovenia in the strategic objectives of the Resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025 and the measures provided for a restriction on their content in foodstuffs. Trans fats are really a major risk factor for human health, which increases the development of heart disease and blood vessels, as well as cancer. We therefore expect the Government to fulfil its promises to the Committee this fall, and these are that we can expect the adoption of a regulation in the Government, because trans fats are extremely dangerous for our health and even banned in some countries. But with us, as we have pointed out several times before, and we are stressing again today, they do not even have this mark. In Slovenia, therefore, we really need to, I stress, amend legislation in this area no later than autumn and restrict or even prohibit the sale of controversial foods altogether. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u9	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u10	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Initially, in New Slovenia we support this bill, because we believe that the availability of trans fat food has increased significantly in Slovenia, and statistics also show this. According to an assessment by the World Health Organisation, these pose a serious risk factor that contributes significantly to the development of cardiovascular diseases. An important source of trans fats in foods are industrially added partially hydrogenated vegetable fats or oils. In New Slovenia we believe that we should follow Danish, for example, Switzerland, Austria, Iceland, Hungary, Norway, Latvia, which have already adopted legislation that prohibits the sale of food with more than 2 grams of trans fat in 100 grams of fat. The Institute of Nutritionist also made a detailed list of foods last year, which were listed in trade shelves in Slovenia and in several shops and described 10 000 690 foods and looked at their composition. They found it very interesting that the use of partially hydrogenated vegetable fats on the market is much higher than they predicted. The largest proportion of these fats were soup concentrates of 19 %, biscuits of 16 %, cream, chips and various snacks of 9% and cakes, muffins, cakes of 8 %. The worst health impact is trans fats, including products with partially hydrogenated oils such as margarine. The increase in trans fat consumption by 2% increases the possibility of premature death by 16% and the 5% increase in intake of saturated fat increases the possibility of death by 8%. On the food market, there is a high availability of high trans fatty acids, which is generally cheaper and, secondly, more accessible. As a result, this food comes from the Balkan countries, mainly due to outdated technologies and processing processes themselves. This diet is due to the level of poverty, which reigns not only among the unemployed but even employees in Slovenia, forced by low incomes to buy the most vulnerable groups of the population. Therefore, the bill could at least partially approach some European countries that have limited trans fat content in food products as well as encourage the identification of foods that are the main source of trans fats and determine the introduction of trans fats in the general population and key population groups. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law for the above reasons, and once again we warn the Ministry, the ruling coalition, to listen to this law, because the law is more than just a regulation prepared by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u11	The word is given by the Left Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the amendment to the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Substances which come into contact with them, which we have tabled in Levica, is to limit the trans fat content of foodstuffs. We tabled the same law in Levica last year, and it turned out that in politics we all agree that trans fats are substances that have nothing to do with our diet. In short, it's substances that are quite simply toxic. The human body doesn't need them in even the smallest amount. Trans fats are directly associated with the occurrence of various cardiovascular diseases and cancers, which are the main causes of death in us. Because of their valuableness, they are present in many species of industrially prepared food. Even years ago, trans fats in some foods, which were huge for sale in stores in Slovenia, especially in margarines. Also after more than 10 % of all substances in foodstuffs. Today, however, this is less, but the fact that the minimum trans fat content in foodstuffs is already too high is still. That is why, in Levica last year, we proposed a law with which we wanted to limit trans fat content to a minimum. Our law was rejected last year because the Ministry of Health, as always, has promised a systematic reform of the Food Health Compliance Act, which is still, as always, not yet. And last year, the ministry also referred to the unacceptable adoption of our law because the results of the study on trans fat content in food have not yet been studied with us. However, according to the Ministry’s representatives, the survey was expected to be completed last autumn and, in fact, the results have already been presented to the public in November, on the basis of which the Government could initiate an appropriate procedure to limit trans fats in foodstuffs to the European Commission. The Food Health Act, which we are updating today, has already been in the Government's normative programme for 2015. The deadline for the adoption of the law was February 2016, but until today, as of July 2017, the public had not even seen the draft law. Please! And when we tabled our amendment to this law in Levica last year, we heard promises from the Ministry of Health that a system-wide overhaul would be ready by the end of last year. When she was not ready, we asked the Ministry several times during this year when we could expect her, last March at a meeting of the National Assembly, when the Minister of Health made it clear, I quote: "The law goes to public hearing in early April." Since this has not happened again, after one year of waiting in May in Levica, we have re- tabled a new Law on the Health Relevance of Foods, which limits the content of trans fats in food. The day before the examination of our law on the Commission of the State Council, the Government gave public consideration to the Regulation on the maximum permitted content of trans-fat acids in foodstuffs. A very interesting date and very interesting that the phantom reform of the Food Health Act still remains phantom! However, in Levica we welcome the proposal for this Regulation. The adoption of our law would provide an appropriate legal basis for this Regulation and appropriately shorten the time limits to which trans fat foods will actually need to be withdrawn from the Slovenian market. Unfortunately, because of political prestige, the coalition has once again rejected such a better solution and we have also heard the SMC's position that the ministry has promised the law in the autumn and that you will not support our proposal. In Levi, of course, we will closely monitor the adoption of the proposed regulation on the maximum allowable value of trans fats in foodstuffs and, if the regulation is not adopted by 15 December this year, we will, of course, repeat the exercise and reintroduce our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u13	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is to the defence of the proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act after a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Members of Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček and Mag. Alenka Bratusek. At its 24th meeting, on 27 June 2017, the draft law was considered by the Health Committee as the working body of the mother. After the discussion, the committee did not adopt the articles of the bill and the second consideration of the draft law was concluded at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u14	Say good-bye again! By amending the Health and Health Insurance Act, the applicants of this Act wanted to ensure a greater level of participation of young people in dialogue, based on the provision of membership or a representative of the youth organisation in the Assembly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The students and students contribute certain funds to the health treasury through their student work, and their proposal to participate in the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute is also justified in our opinion. As an organisation to represent youth representatives in the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance, the proposal for a law lists the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The Assembly of the Health Insurance Office currently consists of 25 representatives of insured persons and 20 representatives of employers. In its explanation, the Ministry considers that it is not appropriate to intervene in the existing relationship, since the inclusion of young people would constitute a deviation from the representation system. At the same time, the Ministry also considers that the proportion of young people's contributions to the health allowance, relatively speaking, is not such that it could be based on the decision to involve young people's representatives in the said management body. The fact is that the share of the funds paid by students and students to the health register is not negligible, since in 2015 and 2016, directly through the employers, students contributed 32 million to the circus. In view of the fact that students and students agreed to additional burdens of student and student work two years ago, it would also be a time, in their view, for this contribution to be recognised and taken into account. The Government further states in its explanation that, in the final stage of the preparation of the new Health and Insurance Act, which otherwise defines the management structure of the Health Insurance Office. And after the new one, it's not going to be the 45-member Bureau Assembly, it's going to be the 13-member Bureau Council. Unfortunately, there will also be no room for students and students in this world. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have, of course, supported this bill on the home committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much, President! Hello, everyone! We have before us a proposal for a law that will not be voted on today, yet a few words should be given to the content of the proposal itself. It is the idea that young people, according to the bill's proponents, would have an equal position in society. The solution should be both in this law and in the proposal to amend the pension law, so that a youth representative can be included in the membership of the Health Association Assembly. The participation of young people in society and through decision-making policies on issues that concern them is certainly welcome and appropriate. Finally, it is also a reflection of true democracy. In Desus, we advocate intergenerational respect and cooperation, and in the light of that view, it would also show the content of this proposal to support it. However, any such proposal must be carefully examined and its purpose determined. Let us recall two attempts to expand the Economic and Social Council with a youth representative. The composition of any institution where important decisions are taken shall also be duly defined. The tripartite composition of the Economic and Social Council, for example, means organised cooperation between representatives of work, capital and the country, and we cannot argue that at least among trade unions and also from employers' associations we could not find a youth representative. As with the Economic and Social Council, the composition of the Health Insurance Institute is the same. The Assembly is set up on the basis of the level of health contributions paid, and we do not deny that young people do not pay into the health system. Nor can we say that we do not find a youth representative either in insurance or in employers. Of course, it's not specifically named by the Student Organization or, if you want, by the Youth Council, but we don't think it's that important whose side someone's named. However, as part of the preparation of the health reform, a new Health and Health Insurance Act has also been announced which interferes, inter alia, with the existing structure of the institutions and thus touches on the role and composition of the Assembly. The latter is supposed to be replaced by a board of institutions. In the light of the changes announced, we do not see the real possibility and sense of the proposed changes in our Group at this time. However, we agree that young people should also be given the opportunity and the opportunity to co-decision in the field of health in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u17	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you so much again for your word! Your Honor! This amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is before us, is part of a package of two laws that the applicants wanted to further regulate the status and position of young people in decision-making. The proposed amendment complements the law in force with a provision providing for the inclusion of a youth representative in the Assembly of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, which would be called the Student Organisation. On the Health Committee, this proposal did not receive sufficient support as the Government lit the proposal with a red light. According to the Government, the proposal's proponents have not properly substantiated and the proposal changes the composition to the number of judges and the administrative and executive bodies of the institutions usually have a low number of members, since this does not lead to difficulties in deciding by vote. In the opinion of the Government, a parity is unacceptable for the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute. The government also cited a third reason for referring to the data contained in the annual report of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for 2016, which showed that the contributions from the temporary part of the students and students amount to 1.7 % of employers' contributions. In the structure of total revenue from contributions, this means only 0,68 %. Given that the number of individual groups of representatives of the Assembly of the Institute is reflected in the number of contributions and groups paid, the inclusion of a youth representative appointed by the Student Organisation would constitute a deviation from the representation system. The key arguments that we considered in our parliamentary group that we abstained from voting were, in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, in which they point out that the Student Organisation of Slovenia represents only students, it is said, only one segment, and their warning about the principle of equal treatment of the debtors, since, under the law in force, there are now only representatives of employers and debtors in the assembly. The second argument is the fact that in the final stage of the preparation of the new Health and Health Insurance Act, which otherwise defines the management structure of the institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u19	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u20	On the young world stands, there is an old Slovenian proverb and in fact more opportunities need to be given to young people; the opportunity to prove themselves, and therefore we support the inclusion of youth representatives in the Assembly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. Since the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, including Pension and Disability Insurance and Health Insurance, 6.36% of the earnings have been paid. In 2015, €13.6 million was paid from this title and around €15.6 million was paid last year. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposal for a law constitutes a minimum change, as only one article is being amended, and in substance, young people who pay contributions from student work would be allowed to co-decision on decisions concerning their future; thus, they would allow young people to join the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance. The proposed amendment therefore follows the principles of representativeness, equality, freedom of expression and democratic decision-making. The proposed amendment was also proposed for the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, but the Government adopted two different opinions, while the increase in the number of members of the Board of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office by youth representatives was not supported by the Government and the youth representative of the World Health Insurance Institute was not supported. The arguments in both proposals were identical and with the same aim to enable young representatives to become members of the world of both institutions. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is essentially a big, symbolic addition to how much we support the inclusion of young people in our society. And if someone's paying for something, let them decide. We will therefore support the proposal in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u21	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague, president! The young are our future. So why are we afraid to give them a voice on one side and, of course, a responsibility on the other? We have before us the Health and Health Insurance Act, where we are not talking about some major substantive changes, and it is also a relatively small change, but it is a substantive change, if I may say so, because, with this change, young people who are paying for both pension and health benefits, if they are working through the student service would give their vote; instead of 45 they would have 46 members. It is true that young people would probably not be able to change much with this voice, but they would feel that for what they are paying, they also get a chance to co-decision and, once again, I stress responsibility. I am even more surprised that the Government, the same government, has given a green light for the extension of the Assembly or the Council of the Pension Insurance Office, says the pension fund, on the other hand, the Government has voted against or red light, with the same arguments, to increase the number of members of the Assembly in the health treasury. Let him know who can. Young people, as I said, are our future and we must not be afraid to let them down at the common table, but not only at the common table, when we are talking and we are full of the mouths of beautiful words, how it is necessary for young people to be able to make decisions about the future, but we must also be full of actions when we have the opportunity to show it. However, this law has received a red light on the Health Committee, and we will not even vote on it today. I predict, however, that my colleague and I will table this proposal once again. I strongly wish that, as yesterday's amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, I would like to receive so-called unanimous support in the National Assembly – only colleagues from the Left have abstained from my great disappointment. I hope that the Government will consider again why the difference between pension and health allowance has found that there is no difference, and in the next step our proposal also supports. This will give young people a voice, both in pensions and in health care. But thank you all very much for those votes last night.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u23	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Vlasta Wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u24	Say good-bye to everyone again! The Health Insurance Office is the institution and provider of compulsory health insurance in the Republic of Slovenia whose activity is managed by the Assembly in accordance with Article 70 of the Health and Health Insurance Act. The Assembly shall consist of 45 members under the current law, of which 20 representatives of employers are organised in chambers and other general associations and 25 representatives of insured persons. Since the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, the temporary and occasional work of students and students has been included in pension and disability insurance, health insurance and insurance for injuries at work and occupational diseases. The applicants consider that students and students are entitled to membership in the Assembly of the Health Insurance Office and deserve membership and decision-making within that body. This should also follow the objective of greater participation of young people in the Republic of Slovenia among the lowest of the countries of the European Union. They also point out that for years young people have been alerting the inadequate regulation of social dialogue in the Republic of Slovenia, which is insufficiently responding to the needs and challenges of young people. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are aware that dialogue with civil society is important in coordinating attitudes and decision-making whether it is a group of young, elderly or disabled people. We welcome, however, the intention of the proposers to actively involve young people in the formation of society, but we believe that the involvement of young people in the assembly of the institution is not the right answer. It shall be noted that the rules in force provide for the selection of representatives of insured persons to be duly represented by sex, active insured persons, pensioners and disabled persons and individual areas. Insured persons are those who pay for or pay for the contribution to compulsory health insurance. Which persons are insured as insurers, as set out in Article 15 of the current law, and young people are, as a result, already included in the assembly of the institution. It shall also be noted that representation is justified on the basis of the share paid into the cash register by individual groups. In this regard, the Government has already stated in its opinion that the number of individual groups of representatives of the Assembly of the Health Insurance Office reflects the amount of contributions paid by these groups and the inclusion of a youth representative would be a deviation from the representation system. The proportion of young people’s contributions to the health care allowance, relatively speaking, is not enough to allow for a decision to be made on this basis to include a representative in the institution’s assembly. Contributions from the temporary part of students and students are 1.7% of all employers' contributions. In the structure of the total revenue from the contributions of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, only 0.68%. For this reason, Members of the Modern Centre Party feel that the proposal for a law that we are considering today is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law amending the law on agriculture in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Tomaž Lisc, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u26	President, thank you for your word! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! At its 21st regular meeting on 29 June, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law amending the Agriculture Act submitted by Mr Andrej Čuš to the National Assembly for its consideration. The Committee also took note of the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana. Mr Andrej Čuš did not attend the meeting, and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out in her presentation that the Legislative and Legal Service had initially drawn attention to the fact that the draft law was prepared for the legal text, which was the last amendment to the law, which had been introduced on 17. This year, 6th year, has been substantially changed and the content of the solutions proposed should therefore be adapted as well as their placement. It added that the ZPS also made comments to individual articles. The representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition, State Secretary Tanja Strniš, said that the Government felt that the proposed bill was not suitable for further consideration. She agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. With regard to the content of the draft law, the president of the Committee, Tomaž Lisec, on the basis of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure, proposed that the Committee should decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the debate on the proposal for a decision, the Members stressed that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration, since it mainly regulates the subject already adequately regulated by the law in force, particularly after the last amendment had been in force. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the proposal for a decision, the Committee adopted a decision: The proposal for an amendment in agriculture is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u27	In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the motion for a bill to Mr Andrei Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u28	Dear fellows! Yes, it is quite an unpleasant situation when you are not in Slovenia, and somehow you cannot provide replacements on your parent's working body, because of course you are in your own parliamentary group, but of course we have what we have. Currently, Slovenia – for example, if we are going to domestic production – does not meet the needs for agricultural food products. The current situation in the area of self-sustainment in the Republic of Slovenia is not exactly the best, and trends may not be the best. Nevertheless, we do have natural dignity and, of course, people who represent a great potential to improve a lot in this area. Despite relatively low self-sustainment rates, we also have sufficient agricultural areas to increase self-sustainment rates in the future. For some strategic minimum of safe food supply, 70 to 80% of self-sustainment is considered professionally necessary. And if we raised self-sustainment by just one percent, we could talk from 800 to 1,000 new jobs. The new agricultural law, which I introduced in a package with ten laws to improve the situation in Slovenian agriculture a few months ago, brings a number of positive changes. It removes bureaucratic barriers, including time constraints, and I also propose to the Agriculture Council one representative of the Union of Slovenian Rural Youth. The Act also eliminates the anomaly that subsidies are received by people who are not farmers at all, as this represents unjustifiable income. Also proposed was the introduction of mass balance sheets, so that Slovenian products would be really Slovenian, but not to face the situation today, but many here are present when we see Slovenian products produced in Slovenia in stores, but it is not always so. None of these laws in the package had any negative financial implications on the budget. In doing so, they have brought great news in the area of eliminating red tape and simplifying procedures. We also encouraged young people to focus on agriculture and thus preserve the Slovenian countryside. With tax holidays for young farmers, an amendment to value added tax and income tax, and the abolition of compulsory membership in the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, we have also proposed the financial and bureaucratic unloading of all 70 thousand farms in Slovenia. At the same time, I cannot go beyond the last natural disasters in Slovenia. The crops have been destroyed by the frost, and the crops have now been destroyed by hail and drought. There are problems in all sectors. Why does the country not provide sustainable measures such as access to land for safe, sustainable and environmentally less burdensome agriculture? The country should preserve agricultural land, not destroy it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u29	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Mag. Tanji Strniša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u30	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government does not support the proposal for a bill amending the Agriculture Act submitted to the National Assembly by Mr Andrej Chuš. As has already been said, the amendment of the Agriculture Act, prepared by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly, which contains proposals for solutions that are very important for the development of agriculture, was published on 2 June 2017 as the basic objectives were to complement the definition of the agricultural and agricultural economy, the provisions of the specific administrative procedure, the areas of climate change in agriculture, the implementation of financial instruments, the areas of public information on agricultural policy, consumer protection, food donation, producer organisation, public service arrangements, the more precise determination of the management of collections and the determination of certain new collections, and the harmonisation of public services on drying and irrigation systems with the Agricultural Land Act. In view of the proposals for individual amendments and the addition of the articles submitted by Mr Andrej Čulš, we believe that the last text of the adopted Agriculture Act is that each proposed solution is more comprehensive in terms of both European legislation and national aspects. At the same time, I would like to say that certain issues the Member has pointed to are already in the adopted law. For example, the identification of the farm holder, the sale of agricultural crops and the composition of the Agriculture Council, where, in addition to the representative of the Union of Slovenian Rural Youth, Mr Andrej Čuš, the representative of the Union of Agricultural Slovenia is also newly included in this Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u31	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Benedict Kopmajer is responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u32	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Members and Members of the Desus Group, as on the working body, will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly that the proposal for a law prepared for a legislative text which was introduced by the amendment of the law which came into force in mid-June has been thoroughly amended and the solutions adopted are more comprehensive, and we also believe in our parliamentary group that the proposal for a law in the proposed form is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u33	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State! The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be brief and concise. The proposal for a law amending the Agriculture Act, which was tabled by the unrelated Member of the Czech Republic at first sight, brings some like solutions, but these are systematically incomplete and do not bring any serious new solutions. We also agree with the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service that the legal text should be properly structured in accordance with the applicable nomotechnics. However, in the Group of Social Democrats, we note that the amendment of the Agriculture Act has already been adopted in May to address the issues raised by this novel, which we are talking about, and that we also agree that the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Agriculture is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u35	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed colleague Andrej Čuš opened an important area of Slovenian agriculture with this proposal for amendments to the Agriculture Act. In doing so, he drew attention to some of the largest anomalies in the sky that are damaging to Slovenian farmers. The main objective of the law is fair treatment of farmers, their work they do. The proposal therefore seeks to regulate and eliminate the basic grey foxes in the field of complementary activity, regulate the areas of origin of raw materials, administrative procedure and the sale and marketing of agricultural products. The proposer points out that the farmer still faces too many bureaucratic obstacles in his work and that the decision-making process takes too long. It also wants to eliminate anomalies when subsidies are received to persons who are not engaged in agriculture and thus receive unjustifiable income. It also proposes that a member of the Agriculture Council become a member of the Union of Slovenian Rural Youth. The Christian Democrats support these amendments. Some of the solutions in the proposal are in a similar way already governed by the amendment of the law put into the legislative procedure by the Government. Nevertheless, we will support the proposal of colleague Cuz, because in agriculture there is no room for prestige in terms of who proposes certain solutions, but above all what goes well with the Slovenian farmer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u37	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u38	Your Honor! The Novela of the Agricultural Act is the last in this package of laws proposed by the unrelated Member of the Czech Republic and discussed on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. All these laws have been recognized by the Committee as inappropriate for further consideration and nothing else has happened to this law. There are more reasons why this law is not suitable for further consideration. Firstly, the draft law amends the text, which has already been amended in the meantime and although the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out this and has proposed that the appropriate proposal should be corrected, adjusted, Member Chuš has not done so. Another time. Some of the solutions proposed by the law are in this latest amendment to the law, which entered into force 17. 6, so less than a month ago, already properly arranged. Let's say that the products on the farm can also be sold by persons who are employed on the farm in another legal way and not by a contract of employment. In addition, the prohibition of misleading is properly regulated, and the same applies to the modification of the composition of the Agriculture and Rural Council of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. Moreover, the problem with this bill is that the law is structurally very weak. For example, the deadlines for decisions on applications submitted by the Agriculture Act cannot be regulated. This, for example, is regulated by the Administrative Procedure Act and the Agriculture Act only determines when these deadlines begin to run. In addition, it should be borne in mind that in agriculture it is a matter of campaigning, which is also often linked to summer time, that they are many, that they are subject to review and therefore this proposal is not appropriate. It is also not possible to agree with the proposal on how to appoint an agricultural operator. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we really have no choice but to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u39	We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 14. Seven. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the minimum wage law within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first-signed Luke Mesec. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its 43rd session of 27. 6. as a parent working body, he considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Minimum Wage, which was submitted to the procedure by the Levica Group with its first-signed colleague, Mesec. In the work of the Committee, a proposaler, representatives of the Government from the competent ministry, representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service and the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia participated. No amendments were tabled by qualified proposers within the time limit and a proposal for an amendment to Article 2 was submitted by the left delegation. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. In its opinion, the Government pointed out in its opinion that already in the harmonisation of the Minimum Wages Act 2009 and 2010 there was a problem between the social partners and the Government regarding the inclusion of allowances in the minimum wage amount. At that time, the Government worked hard to define more fairly the minimum wage, which would not include supplements, but no consensus was reached. In addition, by amending the Minimum Wages Act 2015, three additional allowances resulting from the distribution of working hours, such as night work allowance, Sunday work allowance and holiday work allowance in Slovenia, have been exempted from the introduction of the Institute of the People's Initiative by means of amendments to the Minimum Wages Act in 2015. The government supported these changes, but there was no wider consensus between the social partners. It was also explained that the proposed amendment would also have a negative impact on the economy due to the indicative cost of the financial impact of the elimination of all allowances and labour performance, which would amount to 10 million gross per year. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health, Disabled Persons and in its opinion presented by the representative of the Council of State, said that the proposal supported the law. The representative also highlighted and stressed that the aim of the law is to exclude from the minimum wage all the supplements laid down by the Labour Relations Act and the Public Sector Wage System Act, as well as part of the salary for performance and performance. In this way, according to his assurances or opinions, an unfair situation will be resolved and equal treatment of workers will be highlighted and the amount fixed as minimum wages will be presented as the starting salary. Given that an agreement had been reached by the union and the employer and that it would not be appropriate to intervene unilaterally at this time, the agreement was proposed by the colleague Jan Škoberne that the committee decide on the proposal for a decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. By 9 votes to 2 with 2 votes, the Committee decided that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. The Committee further decided on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that by 30 a.m. This year's 9th dialogue with the social partners will develop a proposal for a formula to calculate the minimum wage to ensure that minimum living costs are taken into account when determining the amount of minimum wage and all relevant labour market indicators to contribute to the appropriate minimum wage level and greater predictability in the annual coordination of minimum wages. In this context, the basis is that the net amount of the minimum wage cannot be lower than the minimum cost of living increased by the annual growth of those, as noted in conjunction with Article 8 of the Social Protection Benefit Act. This Decision has also been adopted on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u41	In order to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the proposal for the Law of Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The purpose of the amendment of the Minimum Wage Act proposed in Levica is very simple and clear. The minimum wage in Slovenia is not EUR 613 as stipulated by the law, but the real minimum wage starts to be significantly lower, in 400, 420, 450 euros. I don't mean that. You can take any collective agreement in this country and you'll see for yourself. It's even worse in those industries and companies where collective agreements are not available. I saw the contracts myself, for example, the security guards, who had a basic minimum salary of 240 euros, until a statutory payment, says EUR 613, only came with supplements. Do you know what the pension will be in 240 euros? Multiply by 0.575 as currently equivalent. This is why we propose that all the supplements be removed from the minimum wage and that EUR 613 become a bare foundation. This is the whole point of our proposal, and this is nothing more than basic justice. Our proposal was rejected by the Coalition with an argument that we should agree on this through social dialogue. I will say only one thing against it – minimum wages can be determined in two ways: it can be determined by social dialogue, it is said, in collective agreements, but it can be determined by law. And Slovenia is one of those 18 European countries where the minimum wage is laid down by law, so it is not determined by an agreement between capital and unions, but by us, Members and Members, which is defined by the law. We're the one who's going to tell you how high this salary is going to be and what's going to happen to it. There is no European specificity that salary allowances are excluded. If you look at the arrangements in France, the Netherlands and so on, there is a minimum wage somewhere near the naked salary base. With us, as I said at the outset, this could be 400 euros lower, and the current law of such anomalies allows. Therefore, once again, for the last time, I appeal to the National Assembly that, on behalf of those who do not benefit from the current economic growth, those who live with wages below the minimum, those who come to the minimum wage only by paying a variety of allowances, those who are not protected by collective agreements, you are voting today against our proposal being inappropriate for further consideration. I think that in three minutes, as much as I have spent so far, I have said enough that it is clear that this proposal is essential that we deal with this proposal and that a fair definition of minimum wage is adopted, which will not leave people working full-time below the poverty threshold, as is currently happening to us. I think it's a minimum that I can expect from you, colleagues and colleagues, and I also hope you know that eventually people will also judge such things in a year's time in elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u43	There's no government. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The Left Group has tabled a proposal to amend the Minimum Wages Act, which the Committee has decided is not suitable for further consideration. In our parliamentary group, although we have not lit the green light on the proposal, we will always be on the side of a fair pay for honest work. The essence of the Minimum Wage Act is to determine the nominal amount to which everyone who works full-time in the Republic of Slovenia must be entitled. The amount of the minimum wage shall be set at a level sufficient for a single person to cover the minimum cost of living. It is true, however, that the minimum wage is too low, since it does not go beyond the poverty threshold and consequently prevents decent survival, and we have also supported the decision of the committee which ordered the Government to find a formula for calculating minimum wages. This formula must take into account both the minimum cost of living and the relevant labour market indicators in order to contribute to an appropriate minimum wage level. In particular, we welcome and support that part of the conclusion that the starting point for calculation must be such that the net amount of the minimum wage cannot be lower than the minimum cost of living. Why we have supported in our parliamentary group the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, we have already explained on the committee, but we will explain once again. Social Democrats believe that social dialogue is the value of a society and, as such, is essential and crucial in developing a country. The Social Agreement is the one that sets the basis for wage policy in one of the key ones, and this is the agreement at the bipartite level. Even after the International Labour Organisation Convention on Minimum Wages, the establishment of minimum wage should always be subject to dialogue, not necessarily to consensus, but to dialogue between the social partners. The proposers, however, question this value and deny it. Nothing is worth signing agreements between the Government and employers, i.e. the economy and the workers, i.e. the unions that agreed on how they will organise changes in the field of social and labour law. And in this agreement they have also signed that they do not accept this proposal from the Left. The unions signed this, too. Not because they would be against workers' rights, but because these rights, if we want them to be respected, need to be negotiated in dialogue. We therefore oppose such unilateral actions that do no good to anyone. The Commission of the State Council also notes that in this area, which should be regulated in the dialogue between the social partners, it is all too often affected by other stakeholders, either civil society or Members. In the light of this agreement, social democrats must not be allowed to unilaterally intervene in a social agreement between employers and employees, so we will support the Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u45	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u46	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The minimum wage in Slovenia does not allow a decent life for its recipients. Even worse is the fact that too many employees receive salaries that are even lower than the minimum. The bill seeks to eliminate from the minimum wage all the supplements arising from the Labour Relations Act and the Public Sector Wage System Act, thereby eliminating the unfair situation and creating a more equal treatment for workers. A minimum salary without allowances would thus constitute a starting salary. Christian Democrats support this proposal in principle, and we voted in favour of it at the parental committee meeting, but unfortunately it has turned out that the weakest workers, the recipients of the minimum wage, are already victims of the struggle for prestige among the socialists. As usual, the government does not support the responsibility for an agreement between the social partners and the proposal. It is interesting, however, that the Committee's proposal was rejected by the Social Democrats, whose member is also the competent minister, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, and workers should wait for improvement. But a respected minister, a socialist, cannot live off promises; promises cannot buy food or pay bills. It is precisely because of this that it is so incomprehensible that our proposal for amendments and the addition of the Social Security Contributions Act have not been adopted before. Our basic proposal was to introduce a general relief to pay social security contributions that would most burden the weakest. As a result of our solution, the beneficiaries of the minimum wage would receive around €50 a month more, or €600 a year higher net salary, which is very important and is also supported by employers as social partners. In doing so, the cost for employers, i.e. the gross amount, would not be increased. At the time of the submission, we Christian Democrats met with all the social partners and were assured that our proposal could be a very good starting point for an agreement to increase net wages without increasing the burden on employers. Members of New Slovenia will vote against the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u47	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. The minimum wage in our country is twice unfair; it is too low, as shown by both social and economic indicators, and at the same time it is criminal, because the minimum wage takes away the supplements that should be obtained under law and collective agreements. However, they are obtained by all who have a basic salary higher than the minimum. The news was announced days ago that they agreed in neighbouring Austria to raise the minimum wage by €500 gross by 2020. Their economy and the public sector will not collapse. According to some MEPs in the National Assembly and the Government of Mir Cerar, the Slovenian economy and the public sector will have already taken down a few euros or some 10 euros, as far as the allowances are concerned. This is an argument from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Humanity Capital Organisation. The truth is quite different, the Slovenian economy is already highly competitive. Looking at statistics, the surplus in the current balance of payments account reached 6.7% of GDP last year. We create around €3 billion more than we spend, and in foreign markets, Slovenian products are obviously more than competitive. The logic of capital is also shortsighted. Stronger private demand has also contributed to the current high economic growth. The Slovenian economy is highly dependent on exports and, in terms of resilience to crises and growth stability, it would be rational to raise the lowest-paid incomes because they would spill into greater domestic demand, continue to have a positive impact on economic growth and in the next phase also on increased flows into public treasury. On the Committee, the Social Democrats, with ancient stories, tried to say how the identification of additives would create unrest between the social partners. It is the Social Democrats who have been in control of the Ministry of Labour or, more precisely, the Ministry of Employers for many years. Therefore, they also avoid any disturbance in social dialogue. This dialogue is not an equal negotiation between three partners, but a pressure of two against one. The capital and the state act against employment together. And it is necessary to be frank, and trade unions have, with some kind of rotten compromise, set their backs on their own, instead of resorting in other sharper ways to the fight for workers' rights. The absence of social dialogue is the main excuse that we are hearing today. But justice is not a matter of social dialogue, it's not something you agree on, it's something you respect and enforce or maintain injustice. The minimum wage is determined by law, not by collective bargaining, but by political decisions in the National Assembly. The reference to social dialogue is merely to bear responsibility, just an excuse. We Members and Members decide which allowances will be included in the minimum wage, not the Economic and Social Council! Why do you even resist such a change and eliminate these injustices? The account is simple; a few euros here, a few euros there, are collected by millions, which capital and the state steal from their pockets every month already the worst working people standing there. Unpaid allowances are equal to higher capital profits. The coalition members proposed a new formula on the committee to calculate minimum wage, which means that instead of 10 next time it will rise by 12 euros. Colleagues and colleagues, workers and workers should be allowed only small pieces with well-coated tables, for which the rich are greased. The minimum wage, meanwhile, remains below the poverty risk threshold. Of the approximately 300,000 people living below this threshold, 54,000 are active and can even break through their days, work in the afternoon, or walk on packages of the Red Cross. They are poor employees who, free from greed of capital and its regime’s political helpers, are unable to survive shamefully with the fruits of their own work. We will vote in Levica against the fact that the law is inappropriate for further application. We cannot understand how MEPs and Members can deny basic social justice and equal treatment to those on the minimum, given the 5.3% economic growth, increased income in the budget and the 70% increase in capital profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u49	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Well, hello, everybody! The minimum wage is one of those topics that you could talk about for hours and hours. The structural problems of our labour market, among which we certainly need to include too many unsolicited jobs, which are also linked to the low education of workers, are also marked by a large number of minimum wage recipients. And exactly the amount of minimum wage is the subject of conflict. Is she tall enough? Does it allow a decent life for someone who works? And it's also the subject of social dialogue. Yes, we also agree in our parliamentary group: the minimum wage is low, too low and too many people receive it. This is a major problem today, and a major or even bigger problem will be tomorrow, when the beneficiaries of this minimum wage will be pensioners and receive a minimum pension. Well, the problem is, and that's not the issue. The problem is of a structural nature. We're gonna have to look for solutions quickly, we should have them, and that's what holds it all. However, it is disputed that the Left Group, regardless of the agreement between employers and employees, is trying unilaterally to cut into an area for which all trade unions have agreed to seek common solutions and that there will be no unilateral action. What is particularly controversial for us is that those who are already on the verge are affected by the false hope that change is attainable, even though the applicants know it is not. Populism, all in the light of the search for cheap political points, is not the right way and our Group of Members will not be involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u51	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you very much. When amending legislation that has a decisive impact on the position of Slovenian workers, it is necessary to seek constructive social dialogue and, in particular, to result in the widest possible agreement between the social partners. Even in a coalition agreement signed by all three coalition partners, social dialogue is defined as a value and as one of the basic starting points of the coalition. The fixing of the amount or the amount of the minimum wage shall be the responsibility of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and equal opportunities. Its competence also includes the calculation of the amount or the amount of the minimum cost of living, which also depends on the amount of social transfers. The amount of financial social assistance, minimum wages and minimum living costs are linked and should therefore be taken into account in the final calculation of these benefits in order to determine the amount of minimum wage. However, we must not forget that the last calculation of the minimum cost of living was made in 2009. In the light of the provision of the Social Security Benefits Act that the Ministry responsible for social protection must, on the basis of a comparable methodology at least every five years, calculate the minimum cost of living, it is crucial that the minimum cost of living be recalculated as soon as possible. We know that savings measures have not spared social policy in the period of crisis, but let us also recall that the competent ministry has promised that a new calculation of the cost of living will be made by the end of last year. We still don't have that calculation today. Following the consideration of the amendment to the Law on Minimum Wages on the Workplace, we supported two conclusions by SMC Members, namely that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, and the decision by which we propose to the Government to prepare a proposal for a minimum wage formula in dialogue with the social partners, taking into account the minimum cost of living and the relevant labour market indicators. The starting point is and must be that the net amount of the minimum wage cannot be lower than the minimum cost of living. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we appeal to the competent Ministry, led by Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak, to write down the definition of minimum wage more specifically, so as to address the abuses of the law. We also expect the Minister to prepare a calculation of the minimum cost of living and, in the context of the social dialogue, to find an appropriate solution to the calculation of the minimum wage to be adopted by the consent of all social partners, i.e. by the agreement of the representatives of employers and by the agreement of the representatives of employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u53	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. All present, welcome! We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Minimum Wage Act, which excludes all additives from the minimum wage, which means that when the work-related allowances are eliminated, which was amended at the end of 2015, all other supplements are excluded, and these are work-related and business-related supplements. The proposal before us actually represents a more equal treatment of employees who receive minimum wages and prevents different interpretations of what minimum wages actually mean. Notwithstanding the fact that the proposal does not raise the basic minimum wage, we must point out that the proposal was not in line with the social partners. This is already a well-known practice, which we do not support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, because it is an area where social dialogue should be the basis for regulating labour and social issues. The role of the ruling coalition or government is to align such issues with the social partners and also to give in to employers who want tax and bureaucratic burdens and consequently create more jobs. Unilateral changes would only mean that increased labour costs in employers will be reflected in reduced employment and even the dismissal of employees with minimum wage. It would be very irresponsible of any parliamentary group to want such consequences. The Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs also adopted a decision proposing to the Government that, by the end of September, a proposal should be drawn up in dialogue with the social partners to calculate the minimum wage, taking into account the minimum cost of living which must not exceed the minimum wage. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the regulation of the exposed area with the agreement of the social partners is the only right way. We believe that the proposed legislative amendment would also be agreed upon by employers if the costs of work or any other tax or bureaucratic burden were to be met at the same time. That is why I am once again calling on the Government to carry out the tax and administrative burdens of the economy and finally to engage in a quality social dialogue in that area, which will aim at decommissioning employers in all areas and consequently increase competitiveness and more jobs or higher wages for employees. Since the bill before us is not consistent with the social partners, we cannot support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We will not, however, oppose him, as we are aware that the current situation actually constitutes an unfair treatment of employees who receive a minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u55	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President. Nice greeting once again, dear fellows! Very briefly the position of our Group of Members. What are the facts about our minimum wage? Its amount is currently 804 euros gross, which is, without an adjective, EUR 613 net payment. This is unfortunately, we must clearly and clearly stress this here and find out, still low, too low, and this is below the poverty threshold currently set at the EUR 617 border. Slovenian minimum wage is slightly below the average of the European Union, although these averages can be very misleading. But we're right at the top based on the ratio to the average wage. As far as salary supplements are concerned, they are known to belong in some places, so they belong in others, they are added elsewhere, they are exempted elsewhere. These are different combinations of all these additives. We are exempt from Sunday’s work, night work, and work on holidays and holidays in our country. Over the past 10 years, this minimum wage has increased eight times, totaling EUR 283 gross, representing 54%. The problem or, if you want, the “cleaning” of the minimum wage with the additions opens again in this mandate, this time for the third time. Failure to respect the widest or widest possible stakeholder dialogue and excessive interference solely in the domain of other competent institutions ultimately does not, in our view, bring anything positive, nothing good for the country, and not for the people below. For Desus, social rights are of the people who are socially disadvantaged, of course in the first place. It is also important, I say this in the same breath, including dialogue between the social partners. This is some kind of value in our society. Further deepening this conflict, which already exists in nature between employers and employees, namely trade unions and employers, does not benefit, we are sure, no one. In this place there will be no mistake: in the Desus Group we agree that the full-time worker's salary per week and, as a result, the full-time pension cannot and must not be lower than the poverty threshold. In our client, we also believe that the key binding of the minimum wage is both to the growth of the average wage and to the binding of the minimum wage on the indicators of material deprivation. Of course, the way to achieve this is much more difficult than it may seem at first sight or to hear at first sight. The fact that the social agreement reached 2015-2016 did not contain minimum wage provisions is eloquent enough. The redefinition of the minimum wage was withdrawn from the text because of the mismatch between the union side on one hand and the employer who did not want to hear it, on the other hand. Let us just remember the opposition of employers at the first major increase in the minimum wage in 2010 and then, of course, at the last two changes in the course of this call or this term of office of the National Assembly. In the Desus Group, we believe that we are in our own high – I hope to say – a highly developed and mature country capable of finding levers, mechanisms, paths, ways and wills that will lead to the ultimate goal. This objective, however, is to ensure a decent payment for the proper work done — for the first time. Secondly, fair but also solidarity burden sharing, and thirdly, perhaps even the most important, evenly equitable enjoyment of the fruits of success. For people must have some of the ever-increasing indicators of economic development and raising gross-social product. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We believe that this can and should be done by the social partners in a constructive and sincere dialogue, but of course the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must also play its key role in this place if you want to play an integrated role. For Ambassadors and Members of Desus, dialogue, listening is included in this game, and especially a healthy farmer's mind, if you want, or reason. I believe we can look optimisticly into the future of 30. 9. I am also pleased that the Committee on Labour, the Family of Social Affairs and the Disabled has adopted the proposal to redefine minimum wages, take into account all relevant indicators and that after 30. 9. There will be no more minimum wages, as a result of which there will be no pension and must no longer be below the poverty threshold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u57	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, tomorrow, 14. Seven. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS TO THE LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nejc Bezovar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u58	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is the basis for the participation of the public authorities and bodies of the Municipality of Ljubljana in the performance of the tasks important for the development of the capital city of the country and in the fulfilment of the conditions for the functioning of the state authorities and organisations and various representations. The law is based on Article 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, according to which the capital is one of the symbols of statehood. The main capital is the administrative centre of the country. In its territory, state authorities and bodies of the Municipality of Ljubljana operate in the exercise of their powers. It is in the interest of the State and the municipality to ensure coordinated planning for the development of the capital area in all development programmes – both the State sectoral programmes and the relevant spatial act, the regional programme, as well as the municipal spatial and other development plans – and to carry out the tasks of the State and municipal authorities in a coordinated manner. The special situation of the capital is not a Slovenian specialty, on the contrary, such legislation is known in almost all European countries. Although Ljubljana has a special social, administrative and economic significance for Slovenia due to its history, geographical location, demographic position and the structure of the economy and population. From this point of view, it is the centre where the number and extent of socio-economic events or events are increased. This is undoubtedly an additional cost and investment-development burden for the municipality, as it must actively participate in the development and maintenance of various infrastructure networks: road, municipal, social, institutional and so on. Of course, all these networks are intended for both residents and day-to-day or occasional migrants, and they meet the conditions for the performance of Ljubljana's tasks as the country's capital. In Ljubljana, state authorities are established together at as many as 79 locations and more than 70 foreign embassies. The capital law is without prejudice to the original jurisdiction of the Ljubljana Municipality and is bound by it to take into account the special interest of the State in the exercise of its tasks related to the capital as the administrative centre of the State. Thus, the Law on the Capital of Article 6 sets out the tasks and programmes by which the Municipality of Ljubljana, within its competences in the field of environmental protection, regulation and use of space, public safety, transport security and urban transport, the provision of economic and non-economic public services and other areas of public interest, provides the conditions for the functioning of the bodies and organisations and of the representations set out in Article 1 of the Law on the Capital of Slovenia. As a source of funding for the implementation of these tasks, the Capital Law also provides for part of the income, which is also subject to the regulation of this novel. In relation to the content of the amendments to the law, we can explain that the proposed amendments and additions to Article 6a of the Main City Act provide for a way of determining the share of the income that will belong to the Municipality of Ljubljana for each financial year. The percentage of income was based on the calculation of the capital’s income by formula, comparing the average costs of the Ljubljana Municipality and the average costs of the municipalities. The draft law clearly provides that, irrespective of the calculation based on the methodology laid down in the Regulation, the proportion of income belonging to the municipality for each financial year shall not be higher or lower than the range set by the law. Since the method of calculation will be regulated by the new Regulation, the Regulation on the methodology for calculating the ratio between the estimated costs of financing the tasks and programmes of the capital and income will be completely repealed. Such arrangements will clearly and unequivocally provide a source of revenue for the Municipality of Ljubljana for the financing of tasks under the Main City Act and will allow its authorities to be independent in the planning and decision-making of the financing of tasks – so we are talking about the predictability of the share of income – and, on the other hand, predictability will also be the obligation of the State budget. As regards the reasons for the amendment, we can find that the provision of the current law is nominally controversial and gives rise to different possible interpretations, since the law sets one value and the regulation calculates a different value every 4 years. The Government therefore considers that the amendment provision is necessary, irrespective of the amount to be fixed by the law or regulation. Since 2009, when the Capital Act has been completed, Article 6a of the Act provides for an additional source of funding of 0.73% of income from income paid in the preceding year, increased by inflation for the year preceding and the year for which the MOL is calculated income. In view of this, the evolution of costs and revenues, and in particular the revenue collected, should be checked periodically, as the ratio between the individual parameters that were the basis for the calculation of the first amount is in a dynamic relationship. According to the law, 1. 1. 2010 for a period of 4 years belonged to the Municipality of Ljubljana 0,73% of the income, and in the meantime it was affected by the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2013 and 2014, which stipulated that the Municipality of Ljubljana for 2014 and 2015 belonged to 0.58% of the income. For 2014, only 0,37 % was calculated and for 2017 and currently only 0,32 % of the income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u59	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u60	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the Municipality of Ljubljana, as the capital of the country, has its seat in state bodies and state organisations, foreign diplomatic representations, foreign consulates, international organisations and representatives of international organisations, a special status. And it is true that MOL must, for this reason, provide conditions for their operation within its competence and have different funding agreed for this purpose. That's right. However, the question on the ground is how much more does Ljubljana receive than other municipalities – not only from this title, but also from other municipalities. According to the law in force and the methodology regulation for calculating the ratio between the estimated cost of financing the tasks and programmes of the capital and the income of the MOL for the period 2014 to this year, the share of the income of 0,37 % of the income paid in the previous year shall belong before the year for which the income is calculated. The problem is in numbers. This means that MOL received EUR 7 million 685 thousand 427 in 2014, EUR 6 million 911 thousand 768 for 2015 and EUR 85,000 837 for 2016. Today's amendment of the law provides that Ljubljana will receive as much as €3.3 million from this title in 2018 as it did a year earlier. For the same amount, logically, revenue from the national budget will be reduced, as the share of income under this proposal for each financial year must not be lower than 0,60 % and can reach an upper limit of 0,80 %, we can assume that it will soon reach a maximum level. In Novi Slovenija we ask what actual reasons have led the Government to re-enact the MOL with more funding for the same scale of performance as in previous years. Although we can guess, the most likely reason is the huge indebtedness of our most beautiful city in the world, along with its legal entities, its debt increased from €57 million in ten years to €115 million. Today’s debts will therefore be repaid until 2031, when the last loan falls. Other municipalities, too, would need more resources to carry out certain tasks by law, particularly those that do not raise sufficient funds with income. The financial compensation represents an important source of funding for municipalities which ensures the implementation by law of certain tasks to the municipalities, insofar as an individual municipality with revenues provided by law cannot cover these costs. The fact is that all municipalities will have to fulfil their additional obligations, including those brought about by changes in the public sector's payment policy and other tasks. In the fall, we will discuss the proposal for a new Law on Community Financing in the State Assembly, which does not make any improvements to the functioning of the municipalities. Taking into account the fact that the average was already EUR 536 four years ago, we cannot say that the average is increasing, as the government claims. The following year, it will barely catch the height of the former average, which has been severely reduced in the interim period. In short, Slovenian municipalities, in particular smaller municipalities, have increasing tasks and fewer resources. In fact, this means the slow abolition of small municipalities, which we have been warning about in Novi Slovenije for a long time, and in turn the Municipality of Ljubljana receives more funds for the same scope of specific tasks it performs as the capital. This government obviously, since it has been increasing centralisation throughout the period, is now giving Ljubljana City Municipality additional resources and thus poor rural areas. Since the proposal to amend the Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia does not justify the granting of a share of income to the Municipality of Ljubljana to a greater extent than before, we will vote against the proposed law in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u61	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, chairman. Say hello to everyone! »The procedure for determining the average is not clear... The tasks of the congregations are not clearly defined... The order of activity is not clearly defined... The regulation allows for different interpretations... The system does not take into account all the relevant factors... The average shall not be calculated, but shall be determined without appropriate grounds... The Ministry has not carried out appropriate analyses...” End of quotes. This is just a few of the findings from the audit report on the financing of the appropriate consumption of municipalities. Instead of eliminating these findings, the government is obviously now dealing with the distribution of pre-election candy in the existing system of local government funding. The relationship between the country and the capital has been constantly upset, one government takes something away from Ljubljana, another something to and fro and so on, and this time the government of Ljubljana obviously commits to giving 3.3 million euros. Although the Main City Act, in our opinion, is already clear enough. It is incomprehensible how the competent ministry could have provided for the capital to receive 0.73 incomes, explained by replacing the figures, and we came to 0.37. But this is probably just one of the innovative calculations that govern the financing of municipalities – the competent minister does not deal with this problem. The strategy of local self-government has been adopted, it is well read, although it would be difficult to label as a strategy. The legislation prepared by the secretary-general is something else. On the one hand, the government is talking about how it will strengthen local self-government and strengthen municipal integration at regional level, while at the same time introducing amendments to the Law on the Financing of Communities, with which it wants to tighten financial incentives for the integration of municipal administrations and common services. There is no concrete solution to the problem of community funding as such. The depth of the problem is clearly based on the previously cited audit report. It's been a decade, and nothing's changed. The average is simply not calculated, but determined by how much money the government is willing to give. I have already asked the Minister for the entire mandate for a list of all the mandatory tasks of the municipalities. I haven't had it before today because it doesn't exist. This is also confirmed by the audit report. The process of calculating the appropriate consumption is completely opaque and unclear. For the most part, it is intended to explain the procedure in the light of the interests of the shareholders. This is a negotiation without any serious prior analysis of the calculation of actual data, the situation is simply unsustainable. We have been alerting the entire mandate in Levika. It's almost a month before the minister or the government asks what it is about. Most of the answers are repeated. On Monday, the Minister even said that the response to the identified shortcomings of the Court of Auditors was contained in the novel of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. The 108 pages of the long audit report were published 14. 6. The government adopted the amendment to the Law on the Financing of the Congregation 29. 6. In short, the amendments to the Community Financing Act will be adopted before the Government prepares a response report to the Court of Auditors' audit before we get a list of mandatory tasks for which I almost ask for three years. It's not just frivolous and irresponsible, it's scandalous! In a country about normal, the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister would give up this and such a minister or minister would narrow down the team. For the sake of this, we will not support any change in the field of local self-government, which will not contain an appropriate and serious analysis and justification for the changes. However, I expect from the Minister that if he does not give up on this scandalousness, we will finally have a list of the mandatory tasks of the municipalities before negotiations on the average level start, so that we will know what we are talking about. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u63	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Dr. Dragan Matić is a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u64	Dear President, dear colleagues, dear citizens, especially dear Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans! The forthcoming amendment of the Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia is a response to several years of long-term intervention in the capital's budget revenues on income. And the fact that these interventions were poorly reasoned and disproportionate in comparison with what all other congregations experienced during the same period. Even though most of the cuts in the revenues of the Ljubljana Municipality have been further explained since 2007 as a austerity measure and the inevitable move of past governments, it has not been possible to avoid the feeling that it was political accounting with city authorities and that it was primarily a game of power in which we lost everyone in small ways; and it was all people, both those living in Ljubljana and those driving to work and school. The latter is not only unjust, especially unacceptable if we know that we are talking about the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Ljubljana is the versatile center of our country and the symbolic home of all Slovenians. This one is beautiful, modern, in many ways exemplary, and every time we speak to the world, worthy. We therefore welcome the Government's move to follow the proposed amendment of the Capital Law to the Ljubljana Municipality's proposal to regulate a more reliable model of financing the functions and tasks of the capital in the form of income and, above all, a balanced model of financing of the largest municipality compared to all others. In doing so, we stand in the position that it is not a privilege but an equalization or — to whom it is closer — a remedy for injustices. It is recalled that the revenue of the Municipality of Ljubljana on income from income has fallen steadily since 2007 when it was reduced by almost a third in comparison with the year. In 2015, when its revenues under this heading were lowest, they amounted to only half of the 2010 amount. In this way, no other Slovene congregation was harmed. Although this was not eliminated by the current government in the first attempts, this government is the first one to see the positions of the largest Slovenian municipality without burden and through the prism of what it expects of Ljubljana when it comes to fulfilling the needs of the state authorities and the functions of the capital. It therefore concluded an agreement last May between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Municipality of Ljubljana for the period 2016-2018. It identified the tasks of the municipal and city authorities in the implementation of programmes and tasks relevant both to the development of the capital and to the development of state institutions in the coming years and established a timetable for the implementation of the financial and property consequences and resources and funding conditions. The proposed amendment of the Capital Law is now a successful response to the eligible demands of the capital, thus providing a funding model that will allow for more stable planning of state-owned projects and functions of the city of Ljubljana. This novel will raise the share of income in the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana for the first time since 2010 over EUR 10 million. More importantly, the proposed funding model refers to a four-year period, which in itself ensures greater financial stability and easier planning for the development of the capital. Finally, it is worth noting that Ljubljana deserves this because it is well placed as the capital, and also because the needs of its citizens are as valuable as the needs of citizens of any other municipality that does not have similar functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u65	Mr Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues, nice greeting! Whenever word is applied to the term local self-government, we always listen carefully in the SDS Group. This also shows our question of the Member States and, last but not least, the urgent references of the Committee on Internal Affairs, local self-government and public administration and, if you would like, today's request for a first or so-called general debate. And we're going to the marriage that's in front of us. In the introduction, the proponent writes: “The Main City Act is based on the fact that the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is one of the symbols of statehood in accordance with the Constitution.” With this in the SDS Group, we have no problem either with the capital of Ljubljana. We also agree that because of its history, geographical location, demographic position and so on, Ljubljana has some special significance. No problem. We do not have a problem with this, either, that as a candidate, state authorities are established in Ljubljana. Even though we're on our way here to what's called centralisation, we're on our way to decentralisation. The last case from Posavje, when the government wants to move one of the regional headquarters of the company to Ljubljana, will then refer to Ljubljana as having costs. Leave some headquarters of some fund, some chambers or other state institutions also in Maribor, Krškem, Nova Gorica, and do not list at least the municipal municipalities unless you want me to not list all 211 municipalities. Today we have heard mainly from the Ljubljana people that how unhappy this Ljubljana is, because it has its own costs because it is the capital. But very little has been said about how the capital has positive effects; that Ljubljana has positive effects, especially financial ones, when it is the capital. We are not just talking about this political level and how we all go to work in Ljubljana, we leave our financial revenues on the various entities, that they are mainly coming to Ljubljana, that important companies in particular decide at least for logistics centres in Ljubljana, which again mean some plus for the municipality, because if you have a new company, you have to pay a municipal contribution, if you want people in this company, you have to hire them, and usually then young people move to this municipality and then pay income and so on. Ljubljana has some positive effects because it is the capital. Today we have heard that this poor Ljubljana has a lower income in recent years. But who pays their income? The income is paid by the population and according to the law goes to 52% of the municipality where someone has a permanent address. I'll give you a case. When we decided in Sevnica to change the municipal spatial plan and we wondered whether the houses would be between 20% and 40%, or smaller or shorter, I said at the municipal meeting that our most famous father-in-law Donald Trump could also come because of me, and we, in our own words, were almost down the slope of his house. Only one thing will matter: that Mr Trump or some other billionaire or millionaire fulfil one condition – a permanent residence. What helps us, for example, is 100 000 euros for a small or large town if Mr Trump would probably leave us a few million incomes each year. And if we assume he'll live for at least a few years, a million, a million, a million, and that's what he's gonna do. In short, why lower income contributions – because perhaps the Ljubljanaians or other Slovenians no longer see Ljubljana as some developmental opportunity and move to other cities, especially nearby, Domžale, Trzin. People also say from our places that Ljubljana is nice, but even though I stay in Trebnje, I need half an hour to Ljubljana, like the average Ljubljanar from Fužin to Bežigrad, and why would I pay income there if I could stay home in Trebnje. The key reason why we decided to propose a general debate is that there is a policy that started in 2009; not that Ljubljana is aligned with other municipalities, but that it always has some advantages, especially financial ones. And when we look at that Ljubljana will get just as much on the basis of this law, because it will be the adoption of a new bill, 3.3 million, thus in the SDS Group we would not have any problems, but we have a problem because we have before us a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Financing of Communities, where they will de facto – and this also says, “It is expected that the basis for calculating the average for the deletion of the provisions of the third section of the current Law on the Financing of Communities and the Impact of Inflation on the Level of Income will be lower.” In short, Ljubljana will win, but it will not be followed by other municipalities. And if we know that this is, for example, a continuation of the 2009 policy, when the amendment of Article 6 of the Main City Act has already been introduced, we have quite a few problems here. In the SDS, we are not against the development of Ljubljana, but we are disturbed by the fact that we get the Antiweight Law on the Financing of Communities, where other municipalities receive lower revenues. And while some may say, yes, something is average, something is income, but the facts are known. We have already submitted a request to the SDS Group in 2013 to convene an urgent meeting after the previous Prime Minister signed an agreement, a protocol with the current or current Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, where it is determined, according to the ministries, what Ljubljana receives – a decision, deadline of execution, responsibility of the Government and responsibility of the Ljubljana Municipality. But look at the fraction that Ljubljana is privileged, but not in the same position – if the government respected this agreement, it would also respect Decision No 55, which states: “There is a meeting on the topic of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, and the competent unions are also invited. The proposal of the Finance Committee of the Association of Municipal municipalities is not just Ljubljana, “is that the municipalities receive 20% higher average because they replace the regions.” But today we have before us the Law on the Capital City and not the Law on City Halls, which would give everyone 20% of the average on the basis of this Decision. No! No! Only Ljubljana will receive higher income due to the law, whether or not it has permanent residents. Then, in the SDS Group, we also called for an urgent meeting in this mandate, June 2015, the address of the Community Funding Problem, where we pointed out that the Government had completely failed in the field of local self-government. It has adopted the Law on Intervention Measures for the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities, which is intended to bring 20 million and 30 million discharges to the municipalities where matters will be settled. 3 million have been acquired by the municipalities, but on this basis this government, which is so concerned with the municipalities, has also made an amendment to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia, where it has reduced the average from now adopted 536 euros to 525 euros. So much for this government's concern for local self-government! I also asked the Minister of Public Administration and Local Self-Government at Monday's session on oral parliamentary issues, and it was said: "Ah, because local administration matters are super nice." We are even more disturbed by the fact that, as mentioned earlier today, the Government writes something and another works. I have before me the Strategy for the Development of Local Self-Government of the Republic of Slovenia by 2020. It is good to read how local self-government will be a success story after 2020, where all congregations will live like fairy tales, but see, only one congregation will get something. And that's right — we're doing it again. But why do not other congregations receive this? The numbers are clear and the bill proposals are clear; we have the Law on the Capital of Slovenia where Ljubljana gets, and we have the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, where municipalities, all others, lose because of the new average calculation. Styrians, read yesterday's article in Dinner. The Municipality of Maribor loses by the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. He's losing! Because it will not only be based on this law, but – I also expect – under the Law on the Financing of Municipalities – it will be proven that the Municipality of Ljubljana is acquiring. And once again — and I hope for the last time today — it is right for the city to receive it. It is completely wrong, but it is completely wrong for him to get not at the expense of others, but at the expense of the policy of this government, which he does not give to others. Example. This law has 3.3 million financial effects. Let us leave aside the fact that the State or proposer writes that “funds are provided within the state budget”. 3.3 million funds are provided, few governments will be pushing numbers, but when either the left or right opposition comes along with a bill that has, for example, a million euro financial implications, is already a red light; the government cannot get that money, redistribute it into the sea and so on. Here 3.3 million is easily redistributed because it is political will. This political will has been the same since 2009: Ljubljana has obtained more from the removal of left-wing government presidents because it has a left-wing or, according to the local word, the real mayor. Let's keep the real mayor going, but don't let them get special laws at the expense of all the other 210 municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u67	Mr Primož Hainz will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me introductoryly say that in the DeSUS Group we favour the proposed novels, which will ensure the slightly greater financial autonomy of Ljubljana as the country's capital. Above all, financial independence and liquidity are the problems faced by most Slovene municipalities. Each makes every effort to collect as many pieces of common financial cakes as possible, while the area of equal burden-sharing and obligations requires in particular different practices, which are unfortunately more or less dependent on the ambitions, wills and skills of individual mayors. In the Desus Group, we are concerned about red numbers in the congregation’s indebtedness. The municipalities are well aware of this and constantly point out that their current financial resources are not sufficient for the full and proper performance of all their tasks, so we are reopening Pandora's box when we touch on the discussions on setting averages, common appropriate consumption of municipalities, financial compensation, co-financing and so on. I'm just going to point out a few numbers for the feeling in this place. In 2016, the total debt of the total municipality was EUR 865 million and last year it amounted to EUR 842 million, of which EUR 804 million was the total debt of the municipalities. This means that the average debt per capita was EUR 408 in Slovenia. Last year, only 16 of all congregations were in debt. Although in recent years the debt trend has been declining, this is still not enough. Thus, the debt of municipalities in 2007 was 344 million euros, almost three times less than it is now. The system of appropriate spending each year is divided into 212 municipalities by approximately EUR billion of income, which is about half of the total revenue of the municipalities. In the Desus Group, we understand and logically feel that the city’s municipalities have a slightly higher debt and cost, especially when we are talking about the role of the capital. This includes some additional tasks and investment expenditure, as the municipalities have a higher cultural, sports, educational and transport infrastructure and, of course, a higher financial burden. Nothing surprising or unjustifiable, since we are talking not only about the priority of creating the quality and life of citizens, but also about the many day-to-day migrant workers and all young people coming into this environment. In the Desus Group, we believe that the Municipality of Ljubljana will be able to justify slightly higher income from the collection of income, as it has done so far. As I have already announced in the introduction, in the Group of Members, we believe that the bill is appropriate for the continuation of the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u69	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Constitution states that Ljubljana is the capital of the Republic of Slovenia. In this connection, the capital also has a status symbol of statehood, and by content it represents the administrative centre of the country. In addition to many state institutions, foreign diplomatic and consular representations, international organisations and other entities with which Slovenian institutions and companies participate in various fields are also established in Ljubljana. Finally, under the Law on Local Self-Government, the capital must carry out its tasks and ensure the well-being of the inhabitants and residents of the city itself. In addition, we must not forget the day-to-day migrants who come or come to Ljubljana every day; workers, students, students, patients, tourists, visitors to many cultural and sporting events. The necessary infrastructure needs to be built, maintained and updated – we probably all agree in this that the trends of European and global capitals need to be followed. The proposed amendment of the law provides the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana with resources that will be proportionate to the tasks and programmes set out in this Act. 6.a Article 6a of the draft law thus defines the method of determining the share of the income that will belong to the Municipality of Ljubljana for each financial year. The estimates take into account the adjusted averages of the running costs of all municipalities, the running costs and revenues of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the running costs and revenues of other municipalities, and the number of people in the capital city according to the statistics of the Statistical Office on 1 January of the current year minus one and the income paid in the preceding year, for which the ratio is calculated. Notwithstanding the calculation on the basis of the methodology laid down in the Regulation, the proportion of income belonging to the municipality for each financial year shall not be less than 0,60 % and not more than 0,80 %. The proposer of this novel, i.e. the Government, considers the proposed regulation to be clearer and unequivocally sets the source of income for the capital of the tasks imposed by law on the capital. We think that it is in the interests of all of us, not just the countries, in order to ensure coordinated programming for the development of the capital area in all development programmes, especially at the level of the national sectoral programmes, in the relevant spatial act, the regional programme as well as in the municipal spatial and other development plans, and in the coordinated implementation of the tasks under the competence of the state and municipal authorities. It is also necessary to ensure an adequate level of resources for these tasks. Social Democrats agree that Ljubljana is developing properly as a metropolis and helps other Slovenian cities and regions to establish contacts with all important institutions. These are important as they help to identify other regions and develop these. With the development of other cities and regions in Slovenia, the daily migration flows against Ljubljana will also calm down over the years. Overheating the funding system of municipalities will also help to achieve the objective of the development of other Slovenian regions and cities. The financing of public affairs at the level of municipalities must follow the assigned tasks and obligations imposed by the State with laws and powers to implement them by the municipalities. Local communities should be encouraged to invest, especially when it comes to projects, co-financing by Europe. In past perspectives, local communities have been more or less successful in drawing on the resources Europe has earmarked for the equitable development of the regions. More attention will need to be given to this issue in the future. Finally, we believe that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, and we will also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u71	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Let's start with the mags. Dušan Verbic, we will continue with Dr. France Trčko and Dragan Matić. Mag. Verbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you so much for your words, Vice President! Dear Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, what a lovely greeting! Before I touch on my part of the debate, I am encouraged by a respected colleague who, in his presentation, was a bit critical, but I will make two, three sentences. The fact is that in Ljubljana, as the capital of Slovenia, the population is certainly growing throughout the years, regardless of the fact that it has been said about the day migration, which I will continue to give a few words to it. In these debates, too, we simply cannot accept the fact that the main cities, regardless of which they are in a country, have some special status of regulation, both on the legal and regulatory levels. If I am a bit maimed, I do not care if the capital of the Republic of Slovenia is in Sevnica, where there is now some famous father-in-law, but it is necessary to arrange it in law. We will discuss this and the fact is that the capital must have some special status. Finally, we forget in these debates that the mayors are elected by citizens of cities and not by the parliamentary group and not by political parties. When I looked at today's debate on this point, I must admit that I was already a little surprised by something else. We have only six articles, of which only the one who speaks is important, or the proposal is, 0.6% of the income – 36 are announced to the debaters. You know, I was wondering something -- how many of these debaters have permanent residence in Ljubljana? That's also some kind of indicator. The conclusion is that only six. He's just saying that about himself. Now, a few words about the content of the law itself. The fact is that the Act on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted years ago, was essentially laid down in Article 3, which states that the State and the capital must have a relationship, some definition of jurisdiction. And the fact is, in the same presentations, it has also touched more marginally on those important tasks where the state- capital ratio is regulated. It is therefore necessary to regulate the conditions for state authorities and organisations and all possible representations to be directly linked in this context to the conditions for the development of the capital, both for protocol and for promotion matters, so that I will not also talk about the so-called aspect of international cooperation and, finally, the celebrations themselves, which usually take place in the capital. It is right, however, that in recent years it has started to appear that various celebrations are also after Slovenia. The fact is, as has been said, that each capital, as a rule, represents not only the cultural, educational, financial centre of each country. Everywhere, even in the Republic of Slovenia, it is generally the seat of the so-called administrative centre, as well as of the institutions of state authority, and of international forms of entities, including embassies. But what is important, at least for the Slovenian situation and the capital, is most likely to point out that Slovenia’s capital is most likely to experience – as is the rest of Europe’s cities – a large number of day migrations. Then let us pour pure wine; the number of daily migrations to the capital of Slovenia is virtually over 100,000. If we add this number to the number of citizens who have a permanent residence, the number there is close to 278 000 and together represents a quite good supply for the city authorities, because this number or so-called day migration entails an abundance of activities that need to be done mainly in infrastructure areas – roads, so-called municipal infrastructures, parking lots and so on. However, if I make a few words to this so-called day migration stream, which was previously a little bit of income-related in the presentation. We really need to get some clean wine in here, too. Every capital – and I think that Ljubljana – is also working hard in the system to open up employment opportunities regardless of where or from which municipalities someone comes from. Like I said, it's close to 100,000, I'd rather do something more. In this regard, it must be said that all employees pay income mainly in those municipalities where they have a permanent residence. This means that this relatively large number, including for the Slovenian situation, means that this migratory flow does not fill the budget of the capital city or city of Ljubljana, but those from which it comes. It is therefore right to make it very clear here, too, why the proposal for a law is in this relationship and so is it. I will still give a few words to the implementation or specificisation of this third article of the Main City Act, which I think is right, through the debate, both here and in the public, does not deceive that this is simply not necessary. An agreement on the implementation of the concrete programmes between the country and the capital was reached and also signed last May in this context. What is most important, as I mentioned earlier, is, literally in the infrastructure area, that is, the general part as well as transport, the real estates that are certainly intertwined, which are owned by the country and by the municipality, then the different common features and what is more and more recently needed not only for the capital, but also for all users, so-called domestic and foreign natural persons coming, are mainly involved in these environmental projects, such as electricity mobility and the like. But if I come back, what both Ljubljana and the country really need is a very interesting project that needs to be implemented, and I think some movement has already begun, namely the activities to build prisons on the outskirts of the city, namely Bizovic. The current situation is also the spatial issue of the Ljubljana Police Administration. What is important in this agreement and for these projects is that the indicative amount has also been agreed. It is said that it works very openly and transparently, and this amount revolves around EUR 300 million, the difference being that these so-called budgeted funds are set up so that they do not flow from one to the other, but each party has to be very concerned about financing these projects, both state and local, in this case the city municipality. And if I'm done. The fact is that this proposal, which represents the lower income margin of 0.6%, is still useful and necessary. It is also right to follow some similar examples of European capitals in Slovenia and to ensure that the main city, in this case the Municipality of Ljubljana, is provided with a budget source, which is stable and allows the capital to develop further in the direction that we all expect. I therefore assess that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u73	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Dr. Runczek, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm listening to this and I'm thinking, in the meantime, how would you describe how we're going to remember this coalition that's been in power for three years now? For a short while like this. The SD, which is the smallest, is already well attached to the state, para-state tits and is concerned about these interests, and – now it is not even inside – Parliament or much interest. Desus sometimes takes someone to heaven, and it's important to Karl that he's there. And then we have SMC, which after three years is so awkward, that at the end of such awkward ends of everything, it's for the Guinness Book of Records. I'm sorry about that. I'm not going to say that SMC is responsible for everything, but don't do anything to make him understand things, even though he's had some ex-district who's been saving them and pulling them out of the shit for a while now, in his own words. Even what the colleague said, 36 were reported for discussion and only 6 were registered from Ljubljana. Take a look at the division of Slovenia, how many MEPs come from Ljubljana. Here's the thing, that, that. Let's say it's already shown here that the base [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, they don't have time because there's not enough. You don't really understand the basics. I will honestly say that Ljubljana is probably preferable to most Ljubljana mayors and mayors since it is Slovenia's own. And I don't give a shit what Jankovic's doing with the arcades. After all, I have spent more time in Ljubljana since I am a Member of Parliament than in Maribor. The observation below the line, speaking of Ljubljana as the capital, is slightly wrong. As for the capital, we could talk more about Maribor, because some archbishop put some of the throne somewhere. Or maybe about Cel. I hope historian Matić agrees on this. You're exposing that mobility. Why is there so much mobility? Yes, because we have such a centralised country because everything is in Ljubljana! Because if you have a college degree, you can't get a shithole anywhere else, but you can survive! But you know, Hungary, which is why I really don't set an example for Orban, has put some kind of ministry out. The Czechs have a third branch of power, I think, also the Court of Auditors in Brno, because I worked with Brno. What do we have? It's virtually Dars in Celje to fix a little diary, because you put Slovenia in Maribor and that thing is down in Ribnica and then it kind of stops. That is also why – here I agree with the editor of a low-level publisher – Ljubljana already suffers, but it is not aware. Why is Mr. Jankovic falling into a pod? Yes also due to the suburbanization, those in Ljubljana who have little more money have moved to robberies in some neighboring congregations and some of the pennies go there with them. These are some facts that should be considered. And here I am, my colleague Lah beats my colleague Lisec, and there are some mayors in the coalition who are quiet, as if they were somehow not concerned or "take care of our own", because you know, once they are in power, some municipal roads are reclassified and others are second, and briefly we are all on the long trails. We need a serious reform of local self-government, and I hope that this will begin with the next term and that those who understand will sit there. It is a pity that this did not begin in this mandate because new and SMC and Levi, which are not under the influence of the mayoral lobby, have come. The ideal mandate was to get this serious, but it didn't. And if Mira Cerar really meant it, I'd be honest with you, taking us into coalition and not SD. But of course he didn't want to go into new policies, let's be honest. Do we need to regulate the finances of the congregations? Of course, I've been reading this for three years. Are we getting them wrong? Yes! The government of Alenka Bratušek has taken some measure concerning development assistance to Maribor. We're acting like it wasn't accepted. There's a stranger coming, uh, we're gonna find 20 million, aren't we? We can talk about Pocolp, we can talk about Zasav – the mother of sweetness, because 20 years ago, mining was going to go bad. And you were in power and what did you do, what development programs, whoever it was? And I could count it. More than half of Slovenia's territory is under developmental threat, it seems to me that the government has finally reached a decision in 2014 on those local developmental peripherals. These are some facts that need to be taken. But the fact is, because he dropped this frog, remember that Jankovic said, even if there was any other mayor, that he would no longer subsidize the LPP to those who do not have a permanent residence in Ljubljana. In such a centralised country, even before the crisis, half the cash flow went through Ljubljana. That serious added value is largely not created in Ljubljana, as Franček Drenovac warned. It is created around Slovenia, in many export companies where people work for too low wages. And these are some facts. We should also cut through this standard of congregations. My personal professional opinion is that we need a law on the financing of regional centres that have more mandatory tasks than other municipalities. My personal professional opinion is that we need three, four ranks of congregations that will differ according to the scope of the mandatory tasks and will also be different. Smaller congregations may at first receive less money, but in fact, they will receive more money for smaller tasks and will be able to develop. My personal professional opinion is that some sort of thing that we financially put on the municipalities is centralised. In Slovenia should we determine – do we have compulsory education? We do, the standard is the same, and it's financed without redistribution. But let the municipalities remain those tasks they decide on, one will be more craftsmanship, the other will be more touristic, the third will be more, I don't know what, for the Jagermasters, if you want. These are matters, and this is how these matters need to be addressed. This law, as it is now being given, let's be honest, this law is a carrot and a stick to Jankovic in a pre-election fight, if you're right, we'll give you a little more, if you don't, we'll give you a little less, so we have 0.6 and 0.8 there. That's it. If this is a new policy, then thank you for such a new policy. One more thing. I'll be here in piccolovski. Ljubljana is not only a symbolic home of all Slovenians, Article 3 of the Constitution states – what? All citizens and citizens, Slovenk and all others. It seems to me that we need to take a little care of our language here, but I must also comment to my colleague, “the inclination of the house is not important”. What if Trump's son Barron wanted a weekend that was like a Blue Mosquito or a Grey Mosque from Travnik, and Dad would do that to him? It seems to me, Comrade Lisec, that you would then have some problems in your community council, so let's take a little care of the words. After all, there is little about intellectualism as well as the attitude towards space. We're not going to support this marriage, as I said. This will not be settled until the end of this term. This cannot be regulated by the local community, by the mayors, but also by the mayor, whoever it is, must seriously say that it is in the best interests of this matter to be settled, that there will be no eternal excuse, such as that excuse Cerar and Fischtravec, who is to blame because they have not been able to meet for a year and a half. And these are people in some of the most responsible functions. What am I supposed to do, take them to the trojans for doughnuts? Such people have simply stepped into too many shoes and the responsibility of citizens and citizens beyond that it is only us 90 for all in the world to spit on us, after all, to go with a little more brains to the elections. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u75	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word to prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mr. Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. If I touch on my predecessor's debate. In a way, I find it bizarre that Mr Trček, as a leftist and as a representative of the Left, thinks that the seat of the capital should be established on the basis of the Bishop's seat. That's strange for me, to put it mildly. When criticising our new policy and how it is not a new policy, it is a corner and a stick – I think it is not a new policy, not a corner and a stick, but only for logic, elementary mathematics and the establishment of some normal state or if you want the previous situation as it was. Since it is not logical that in 2010 Ljubljana will be given 16 million and 7 million in 2016 and 2017, 9 million less to perform the tasks of the capital. That doesn't make any sense. Perhaps Mr Trček, who is a remarkable logic, will agree. In my debate, I would like to say something about how we ended up at the point when the current government eliminates these illogicalities and nonsense. In fact, it is an interesting story of how the inhabitants of the capital were completely needlessly and innocently found themselves in the role of a collateral sacrifice or injury due to certain political rivalries or certain games. Let's take a look at some facts. Mr Zoran Jankovic was Director of Mercator in two mandates. From a relatively small company he managed to create the largest Slovenian company after income, with more than 40% market share in the field of Slovenian retail sales, and he undoubtedly demonstrated whatever anyone thinks about it, his managerial skills. He was famous for saying he'd leave Mercator's post when he wanted to. Well, there was someone who wanted to prove Jankovic wrong and that he wouldn't leave when he wanted to, but when someone else wanted to. An interesting statement by Mr Janez Janša when he was Prime Minister in 2005 about the fact that Mercator's new supervisors have solved Jankovic despite his business successes, he said, quote: "In view of the change, I am not going into whether this exchange was motivated in any way or not. This should be up to those who have taken this decision and anyone else, but it is certainly clear that Mr Jankovic's establishment was political. This political stance was learned by Mr Rob, who also made this public." End of quote. This statement is also very significant because of what happened below. This gentleman who said he would go when he wanted to, but he couldn't actually prove his problem as real, but he went when someone else wanted to go to the local elections. And in 2006 he was very successful. He has become a Ljubljana mayor, and that is to this day. Look at the fraction – what happened a year later, in 2007? At that time, after the mayor of Ljubljana became Zoran Jankovic, Janševa's government enacted new tax legislation and the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which entered into force in the new year 2007, took away a third of the income from income or a fifth of the city's budget. That was then about 8.5 billion, in today’s money it is 35 million, about there. In addition to Ljubljana, there were only two municipalities with a new system. Trzin Municipality was deprived of 195 million and Šempeter Municipality - Vrtojba for 111 million tolars, which in fact indicates that the amendment of the legislation was prepared in a way that damaged only the Municipality of Ljubljana, while the municipalities were mentioned as collateral victims of this calculation. However, the funds taken from Ljubljana have been distributed among other congregations. Then we come to the government of Borut Pahor, which was the first to amend the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia in 2009 in such a way that Ljubljana added a special share to the performance of the tasks of the capital in addition to the income distributed by the State to all municipalities. In the first three years, on average, Ljubljana received 15 million from this title, and then again the second government of Janez Janša reduced it by 3.3 million in 2013. Then came the government of Alenka Bratušek, which, while challenging the reduction, introduced a new calculation methodology under the above-mentioned Income Transfer Regulation under the Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia, which resulted in a reduction of income resources, and therefore Alenka Bratušek to the Municipality of Ljubljana temporarily fell even less than at the time of the Janšev government, i.e. 7.7 million funds. The Ministry of Finance thus allocated only 0,37 % of the income to the municipality and the same percentage of the income collected was also received by the municipality during this government, including this year. This, as I said at the outset, is not logical – Ljubljana received 16 million for these tasks seven years ago, and this year it received only 7 million. I don't believe these tasks have diminished in these seven years. I think there's more. With this change of legislation, this government is simply setting up a correction, not even establishing a previous state, but trying to eliminate some anomaly that, as we have seen, has occurred due to a series of certain political moves in the past, which have then been stepped up due to a particular methodology that has been under-careful of the role that the capital plays. This government removes this and I am therefore satisfied as a Ljubljanaan, as a Member, and I think that this is a step in the right direction, and I believe that no one in this country, not just the Ljubljanaians, should have problems because this is the capital of all. And if Ljubljana from the capital performs certain functions, it is fair and right that it also gets an appropriate share of the income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u77	Dr. Franz Runk, replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you for saying that because I didn't understand. Mr. Matić, you are a Dr. History and you know very well the etimology of the word capital. But I'll tell you about everything else. See, the test question for my students was: Why do you have to exempt Trzin from the standardization of variables when classifying Slovenian municipalities? In short, I have a lot to learn about as a politician. On this matter, what you've been saying, I'm telling you most of it out of my head. And if you would listen to me, as an Ljubljanaer, you should understand that, as the system is now regulated, including what is proposed here, Ljubljana suffers. But in the SMC, you have too much butter in your ears to hear it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u79	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor. Prepare Mr Joseph Horvat and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you very much. According to the very pleased Mr Matić, Ljubljana, it is necessary for citizens to hear another voice, because Slovenia is not Ljubljana, but it is much more. You've done all the glory to Mr. Ljubljana Mayor, but you haven't read Dusan Mohork's book entitled Criminalist and Lawyer. Dusan Mohorko, who was the first man of the Slovenian criminal police, briefly led this police force and in his book, which came out before, I think, three years ago, he described what you just mentioned, Mr Matić, a time when the Supervisory Board was solving Mr Jankovic. Mr Mohorko was invited to dinner at the time. He was invited by people from Mr. Jankovic's circle, and of course nothing special happened at that dinner, but when Dusan Mohorko went to get a salad, like we're going to good inn, a stranger came after him, saying, "Is 250,000 euros enough for your vote to keep Jankovic from getting rid of him?" That's what you offer the first criminal of the state. That's got to be the donkey. Then there's another lunch or dinner, whatever, where the offer was raised to half a million. Because Dusan Mohorko did not respond, he received a third offer, a million euros. A million euros for the vote to keep Mr Jankovic where he was. You also have to add this to it, this is also part of the history of this gentleman, not just your fame. Now, as far as I'm concerned – I don't have the habit of reading, I never read the leaves, now that the term is up and I'm retired, but I'm going to read something. By the way, I'm going to read what's on my blog and it's about this law we're talking about. This is what I wrote down. "Dear citizens and respected citizens, those here in Ljubljana, especially those who are not Ljubljanans and live in the countryside in particular. Your Members are just considering the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. The law has 13 pages of text, 6 articles, 11 complex formulas, which of course no one understands. We have also listened to the scientific report of the Secretary of State, Dr. Nejac Brezovar, which he calls the explanation of the law. It followed the reading of the reports of the representatives of the coalition parliamentary groups, I believe they read well, but they probably did not understand the contents of the reading. Allow me to translate all this event into most understandable language. With this bill, Ljubljana, the richest part of Slovenia, will be donated 3.5 million euros a year. With the following law, this will be the Law on Community Financing, and we will take 3.5 million euros from all the other municipalities that are much poorer than Ljubljana. The law also has an explanation in the form of 11 formulae. For the sake of the majority, let me also translate you into an understandable language. The Slovenian political left, which has been in power since 2014, has been paying for the 2014 elections, which it won mostly in Ljubljana, as the participation in the elections was around 70%, and unfortunately also below 50% in the countryside. Respectable citizens and citizens, especially those outside Ljubljana, will you take these 3.5 million euros back by participating in the next elections?" That's what I'm asking the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u81	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Mrs Anita Koleš. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! In my debate, I will try to abstract the current mayor of Ljubljana. I will not deal with it because there is not enough time available, and I will first say that Ljubljana is, of course, my capital. In the final stage, I do not mind providing more funds for the Ljubljana Municipality. The current mayor will come to an end one day, just like all of us. This will be taken care of by Mother Nature or by the electorate and the electorate. His end will come sooner when the last loan is due in 2031. The city’s indebtedness has increased dramatically over the past ten years and today amounts to more than €115 million. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to increase income from income tax by more than 46% in 2016, let us give at least 10% to increase income from income to all the other 211 municipalities. It hurts me, it really hurts me that this country is centralised and that it treats its citizens, especially on the periphery, as if they are enemies of this country. This is evident in all areas, even if you want, because it is now very topical when the state border has to be defended there in the far northeast. None of the ministers crossed the state border on the Muri River. And also this power, the current authority, did not maintain the embankments that we built a few years ago there at Hotiz. Now let's just leave it. The country, ladies and gentlemen, is as strong as it is on its periphery. And we in Pomour have slowly enough of this stepmotherly policy of Ljubljana to the periphery, if you want, to Pomuri. Now you will say, be quiet, because we have blessed your law on the development support of the Pomur region. That's right, thank you. Thank you. 27 Pomurski municipalities and 3 other municipalities, i.e. 30 municipalities will receive by the end of 2019 approximately the same money as the Municipality of Ljubljana in one year. It's the same order of size. Look, this is what this is all about. And new and new obligations are imposed on municipalities and the funding of municipalities is decreasing. We wait for the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, which is likely to bring us this autumn, but surely nothing good. But that this power, because now is the right time for us to have economic growth, is some positive climate that I am looking forward to taking care of regionalisation of the country, no, that is not. Why not? Because she prefers centralization. This is also evident from the attitude towards Members, which we are a little bit more, say 200 kilometers away from the centre of Ljubljana which we have, and this is not popular now, as I will say, by carrying out my parliamentary work in the mandate for about 50,000 more costs than the Ljubljana Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u83	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mrs Anita Koleša and Mrs Marinka Levičar. Here you go, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I did not even intend to discuss myself because I had that introduction, but I must say that I will not now be a defender of Mr Jankovic's name and work, because the Constitutional Court is protecting our names and works. Of course I won't do that. However, I must say that Ljubljana had very different mayors, and if you look at the names and how many individual mayors did in Ljubljana, then it is clear that sometimes we ask ourselves a little less about what was behind, what was at dinner, what was not at dinner, but this mayor did a lot for Ljubljana. And so it is in all the congregations. Like the last time a colleague asked about Poček. We have a few municipalities there that can or may not get funding from this Počka, and we have a mayor there who has not run for European funds that Počko could have received in years. He didn't run. It's not at all because – what? This has already happened to us in the municipalities, even in Ljubljana, sometimes it is to employ our own, close ones, if I may say so, but of course it does not work because they do not know the problem, and then, of course, it is all the fault of the state, because the congregation, for example, does not have it. I think that here things need to be divided and looked out for in very specific congregations, why something is going on somewhere, why something is not going on somewhere. However, I agree with what Mr Horvat has ended, we would need regionalisation, we would urgently need the provinces, but we have against the provinces, I am sure, two strong opponents. A country that doesn't want to give authority and actions and mayors who don't want to give authority up. Because the mayors want to go directly to Ljubljana to the Members and to the Government. There's no difference. I'm sorry. You're both strong opponents. Although we sent the mayors out in this National Assembly, if I may say so, but the mayoral mentality in this National Assembly is nothing less than it was in previous mandates when the mayors were here. We're coming from here and here, we want this and that. This is the mayor's lobby without mayors. And these mayors don't want to, because this regionalisation has these problems, because this would be the only intermediate, because the province would play its part because it would be significantly easier to solve a question at the regional level than for each municipality to have its own, if I may say, tiny caverns. And there's another experience I'd like to tell you. Decentralization. Then, I remember well, he went to Celje Dars with his headquarters. What did they do in Dars? There they had spaces, those spaces they were sweeping, cleaning, ficus, secretary, everything, but in Ljubljana they rented spaces that were significantly larger and where all the employees of Darsa were because they said we could not go every day to Ljubljana and operate from Celje if we were too far away. The Celyans said that because we don't care about it at all, all that matters is that the Cell Bank is the one transferring that money. What's with the money, the banks? You know, this whole thing went a different way, in short, Celje doesn't have any of it. I mean, sometimes these decentralisations really cost – well, sometimes they may even be justified, even if they were slightly higher costs, but in this way they cannot be done. Thank you, I wasn't very principled, but I wanted to say a few examples, as I see them on this issue. I agree, however, that the congregations need money, but the congregations also need to be careful about what they do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u85	Ms Anita Koleša has the floor to prepare Mrs Marinka Levičar and Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Before I take part in the debate on the content of the amendment of the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to say that I have lived all my life in one place, in one congregation, that I have dedicated my work to this congregation and this city in one way or another. I may be able to include another congregation in which I am also a significant part, but I do not represent my efforts to manage the financing situation in the capital in such a way that we now have to cheer on Members and Members for our place and for our city. But it is, and it seems perfectly legitimate to me that we should try and that Members of Parliament want to be as generous as possible in the part where the municipalities write, as much as possible and as generously as possible to our communities. After a few years of saying so, dry cows, however, things change in the financial situation of local communities. The fact is that the average is growing, the fact is that the municipalities are responsible for less debt, although of course the natural state would also like to accelerate these processes further. There are also few who have not taken advantage of the favourable opportunities to use European funds, thereby increasing the quality of life of their citizens and citizens. Although, as we have heard, there are such mayors among them who have not taken advantage of these options. When we started this mandate, when we talked in some municipalities about the problems of local self-government, it was actually interesting to hear how we found that the municipal roads were nicely renovated, the streets were more or less well restored, also asphalted and so on. The roads that led to this congregation to this city were in desperate condition. It was already quite clear in advance which road is municipal and which is, say, national. It seems to me, however, that at least citizens, citizens and citizens see things changing dramatically. Even if I think of my place, I do. Extensive investment in some road infrastructure will certainly help to improve the quality of life of our people. I'm talking about roads, although I don't like to talk about roads, but somehow it seems to me that there's a very loud example of how the country, because of its uneconomic and foolish treatment of public funds, had to do something to save on such important infrastructure, in its own investments. In fact, the municipalities have lived relatively well for a few years, even at the expense of the favourable situation of European funding, which our government has then, in recent breaths, exhausted the previous European financial perspectives, I must say very well. And now that in some way local self-government, as far as funding is concerned, is putting into some of its frameworks – we have already heard, we are awaiting consideration of amendments to the Law on Community Financing, I sincerely hope that we will come up with good solutions – now that this is being put into place, the government has also drawn up a law on the capital. Ljubljana is not one of the cities in Slovenia, of course, but is its capital. He is not one of the congregations, but he is bound to this capital. And this capital, which is a symbol of the country that is its mirror, is also its administrative center and therefore has a special status and special needs. I am not going to repeat myself and explain it because the explanation of the law is also specifically highlighted and, in fact, a kind of purpose of this change. Since I have also become a Ljubljana woman, I can see what we find more or less, except for those who want to keep their eyes closed, one or even two, that Ljubljana has become an extremely beautiful city in recent years. I also disagree with a lot of things, not even those arcades that Mr Trček mentioned, but, of course, this is not something that I would like to discuss in particular right now. In some ways it is right and every citizen and citizen of Slovenia should be proud of his capital. I think Ljubljana deserves it. Whether you are now or will be in the near future, let each one consider for himself. If we ask ourselves, what makes the city the way it is, the answer is clear, it's people. Like people who are responsible for everything bad, what happens to a city. And a few weeks ago, when SMC Members visited Steinjel, at the museum there, Max Fabiani's thought reminded us of what people and their decisions meant for some progress or realization of a vision. The great architect wrote: “The financial design of the project is a question of will.” Such a thought could certainly be attributed to one of the successful mayors and certainly to the legendary Ljubljana Mayor Ivan Hribar. One additional incentive for the continuation of the work of people who are trying and who have decided to make Ljubljana a capital is certainly also the law that we are considering. Of course, not just for the sake of money, but because of significantly more responsibility in carrying out the tasks that this city has because it has become the country's capital. Perhaps this view that if Ljubljana has more, it will also have my city, my municipality more, because, for example, the capital is the biggest tourist attraction if someone visits Ljubljana, there will be much more opportunities for him to visit my city, including your city, to leave some money there, because the main cities are universities, because festival cities, important business centres, cultural centres, tourism or sports, science and so on. There are also cities that create multipliers for the whole country, and this seems very important to me. I hope that one day, however, we will know how to overcome our usual congregational plankness and know how to look forward to the success of other cities, other congregations, even if perhaps there are few selfish reasons why something will fall into our small success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u87	Mrs Marinka Levičar has the floor to prepare for Mr Simon Zajc and Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! We must certainly all agree that Ljubljana is well performing its function as the capital of Slovenia. This has been highlighted in the previous debate, and I think it is a fact that everyone who came to Ljubljana, for example, 20 years ago or today, sees the difference between then and today. That's why I think it's very important what my colleague Lisec said, he says: "Ljubljana gets more because he has a real mayor." Indeed, I think we have a real mayor in Ljubljana and that in the last 20 years, as I said, things have changed for the better. More importantly, foreigners coming to Ljubljana also recognize that Ljubljana is a really nice place to serve as the capital of Slovenia. By doing well in the role of the capital of Slovenia, we must be satisfied and proud of it all citizens of Slovenia, that is indisputable and therefore I think it is right that this law on the capital of the country has been adopted and implemented. That is why it is also right to correct today, to amend an article that changes how much more Ljubljana will get from the country because of its capital. I do not think this fact is at all controversial, but I even welcome him that Ljubljana, as the capital, receives more money than it did before, in order to realize the function of the capital city of the country. I also understand the comments made by the other Members that other congregations should have received. The problem, you all know what it's like, why there's no money for all the municipalities anymore, but I'm also wondering, is the growing gap between the development of individual municipalities, this is also found on the basis of statistics, and there are increasing differences between the development of individual regions, but here are the answers or we need to look for them. There are many dilemmas in this, that is certainly a fact. My assessment is that in Slovenia we have many too small municipalities, which by their development cannot at any time be dealt with by larger municipalities, municipalities that already have a tradition and have already done something about this development. Therefore, it is also clear to me that one day, perhaps in the near future, we will have to face the fact that we have too many congregations, that they will need to be reduced. As we reduce them, however, it will certainly be a very difficult issue, even because of the increasing indebtedness of the smaller congregations. We can see that small congregations are now in debt. Here I have information about four really small congregations that were in debt last year, but they were not in debt before. It is also true whether, with their smallness, or regional or even more, if they have a small number of residents with permanent residence, they are having difficulty in carrying out their tasks that they should. It certainly seems to me that at the end of the day, I should like to reiterate that Ljubljana, as the capital, is doing its job very well and it is right to get more resources for this. Its development plans are also good, and I think it is also right to support them if we have the option, but we only have this option by granting them more resources. Somewhere in the debate, I traced it from a colleague from Šentjur who had previously discussed that Ljubljana also had an impact on other places than the capital of the country. I certainly agree with this, this has always been in history, and even in history it will be that smaller cities like to imitate good things from bigger cities. Since I am from Desus, let me point out that Ljubljana was the first in Slovenia to introduce the principle of "Ljubljana, an elderly friendly city" that it has not only performed its functions well, but also in other areas as a city friendly to older people. And then, according to Ljubljana's example, many cities across Slovenia now have this status city, friendly to older citizens. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u89	Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah and Mr. Marko Ferluga. Here you go, Mr. Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! When we talk about the amendment of the Law on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, it seems important to me that we have some facts in mind all the time and the debate will be so much easier. The first is that Ljubljana is the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, and according to the Constitution is therefore one of the symbols of statehood. Since it is the capital, it has a number of ministries in its area, a number of infrastructures, because of these ministries, it has to be maintained, a number of seats of other organisations, then we have an embassy here, a residence of ambassadors. Ljubljana is also the administrative centre of Slovenia. We must be aware that, elsewhere across Europe, the main cities have some special arrangement in the country, because they also have other major cities elsewhere in Europe, because there are major cities, additional obligations, additional inconveniences, if you want, and additional costs. They are therefore further or otherwise treated and financed. As the last such thing we need to keep in mind, although Ljubljana is the capital and therefore has all these additional duties, these additional costs have not been justly compensated or compensated adequately or even reduced in recent years for additional burdens. I can find out, as many before me today, that Ljubljana is performing its function as the capital. We can all agree with this, I think that all Slovenians can be very proud of their capital no matter where we live. On the other hand, it is true that because we are living in the capital, we are also facing a number of inconveniences that the inhabitants of other cities do not have to face, from the closure of roads, when there is a state visit, to the prison, when there is an event, to the noise that these events cause, to the stalemate that is the result of all this, and if we continue to go on to the fact that it is increasingly expensive in Ljubljana. And the municipality and the mayor also have a number of additional infrastructures to enable and maintain because this is the capital, a number of additional works. As a result of this, additional costs are and are fair and appropriate, it seems to me that these costs are fair and, above all, they are being compensated in a stable and predictable manner, because all these obligations are already clear and stable in advance and, in my opinion, the only way is for all of us to pay these costs and obligations properly to our capital. In fact, I believe that this account will not be denied to the other municipalities, and as has already been said, the attitude and manner of the capital also have a positive impact on the other cities and other inhabitants of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u91	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Mark Ferrug and Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u92	I don't have much time. In view of the debate, this government has done nothing for local self-government and will not do anything until the end of the term of office. The strategy adopted by the government runs contrary to the European Charter on Local Self-Government, contrary to our constitution, which provides for the provinces, not administrative thefts, as stated in the strategy, because it is not the political will to be a province. I can't accept that. As far as Ljubljana is concerned as the capital city, I think Ljubljana is above the country, above the capital, otherwise the Slovenian flag would hang on the Ljubljana Castle, not the Ljubljana flag. Given that the mayor was once in a protest group where there were no Slovenian flags, but those with the red star, we can expect this flag to hang there in time. It is important to be aware of what local self-government is. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u93	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Prepare Mr Janko Weber and Mr Saša Tabaković.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and the team! This debate is very interesting. I will, unfortunately, attract certain things that need to be said clearly and loudly because they hurt me too. I know Jani will be a little bitter and against me, but the facts are clear. As a Primor, I have one very great pain, and I will continue where Lah ended up. I'm in a lot of pain. If it's our capital and if the capital has one big castle and if there's only one green flag on this big castle, it hurts a little bit. I have no problem with the Ljubljana flag there, but I would also like to see Slovenian. And I know what Jani will say to me that the Slovenian flag is for the holidays, and now I don't care at this stage, because if we're conscious – we, Primors, I have to say, and the flag means a lot to us. These flags here on the square behind us virtually no one can see, but that flag up there, at the top of the castle, but you can see. With all the huge millions that this government will give, and the previous governments that have given this city, I think it deserves to be put on at least another drug, plus a drug with a Ljubljana flag and a Slovenian flag. To be fair. If the problem is that there is no money for this – that I will not tell any other adjective – drugs to stand up for it, then I can raise that money if necessary, and I will give it for the flag, if necessary, only to finally put it on. If we have to change the laws, regulations, decrees again, and I don't know what, please, I'll be happy to help. The fact is that the Municipality of Ljubljana is a country in the country because it is so huge because it has so much. Maybe there's one thing that almost no one has said here, and I'm gonna tell it straight so we don't go blind and cheat. It's one thing, I'm going to say, calculus and one pragmaticity that I see in all this legislation, this law and how the government is now doing before the time of the elections. The fact is, you try to gain this kind of political popularity, likeness here in this city, in this city, which is the largest even by the number of voters, and then everyone kind of drools that someone likes, and they do something like that. I tell you this as I see this matter, of course others will say that everything is beautiful and right and that it is growing flowers, but I think it is the only calculation that has led to all the previous, present and present governments. So it can be quite debated. That the city municipality is problematic – this has already been started with one of the previous interlocutors – even when the Eastern and Western cohesion region is established and falls under the Western region, so that the Western region is also somehow handicapped because the City Municipality of Ljubljana and the other municipalities are much more developed and somehow wears that minus in obtaining these funds. That's something to be reminded of. It is true that it is the most beautiful city in Slovenia. Otherwise, we have Koper and a lot of other nice places, but the fact is that it's really arranged, that tourists are coming, and if it's going to focus on tourism, there's going to be money for some drugs and there's going to be no more flags and there's going to be some big problems that we don't have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u95	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mr Tomaž Lisec. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The capital has also received its own special law if I may say so, but I would like to point out, nevertheless, that the Social Democrats have had a strong impact on the fact that laws have also been adopted for border areas and, above all, for areas with very large development problems. Above all, I am referring to the law on the Pomur region, which was one of those that we brought to life during our government and also very precisely defined the conditions to be respected, even within the Government and Parliament, when an area due to a high level of unemployment becomes a problem area. This is how Pokolpje with Kočevski and Bela krajino was created, of course, among these problems include Maribor. We always have an open debate about this Ljubljana – Maribor, which is the most escalating. Here, however, I would point out that Maribor also has one great expectation of the country, namely through the process of the area, which is defined as a problem area, it is also necessary to provide Maribor 67 million, as far as it belongs to it, in accordance with the criteria set out by this problem area. This is something we must have before our eyes and also try to realize as soon as possible. To a large extent, I can say that the attitude towards problem areas has somehow been compensated in this government in a way that, if I may say so, Yaskawa has been placed in the Municipality of Kočevje and represents one great potential for the development of this area. Magna with great difficulty tries to stay in the Maribor area, it would probably be worthwhile to try and see where it would actually be possible to implement this project through all of these problems that we are facing, but I am warning about this manna at Maribor, which is also very accurately calculated. It is important, however, that we also built a highway cross in the time of independent Slovenia. This highway cross has brought Slovenia very close to one another and, of course, one Pomurje has significantly better conditions than it had before. Nor would the law itself have helped to do so, so that the construction of the highway cross has actually had an enormous impact on, we can say, evenier, more coherent regional development. However, what we lack and where we should actually adopt a special law are developmental axes. See what art it is to achieve, however, a shift on the third development axis towards Koroška or against White Krajina. It's really a great art when we talk about it. Which somehow doesn't come true. Something similar applies to the development axis 3A against Kočevska, where it is not possible to agree on the construction of railways, such as the Ribnica, Veliki Lašč, Mali Lašč and Škofljica. By actually removing this large developmental backlog with small cartridges. Finally, we have the Idrian-Cerkljan area, which is just as extremely promising, but with infrastructure, it is more difficult to access than it deserves in terms of its potential. I don't think it would be too much to think about preparing a special law for the developmental axes and thus setting up one dynamic that can be followed from year to year, how development axes are also being realized. At that time, there will certainly be no discussion as to whether it is right that, I don't know, but some get a major income capital, more than would otherwise be due to the formula used for the distribution of income. We actually have opportunities and opportunities to fix all these things. However, I do not think that without a specific law in the development axes there will be a serious shift in any direction, neither against Koroška nor against the White Krajina and, of course, against Kočevsko. In particular, I would also like to try to raise the issue of demographics at the border. The entire border area is also defined in the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development Act as having a special status. Here we should think very seriously about areas such as, I don't know, the Church, the Osilnica, in part also the Loški Potok, especially the Drage area, the Podpreske area, where the demographic image is very bad. This is a border area and we should actually think about adopting a law that is likely to, because tax policy is the one with which you also direct development in the country, relieve this area of paying tax obligations in order to attract people and economic operators to this environment. I hope that the award of concessions will also be successful, for example, for a multi-purpose facility or home of older citizens, which in one part could certainly be in Osilnica, where the building up to the third construction phase has been standing for 10 years, for example, and nothing is moving. These are issues that indicate that even for border areas, we should have a special law and then monitor the implementation of this law from year to year. So in addition to the special law on the capital, all those places that really face major problems with high unemployment and, above all, with an extremely poor demographic picture, deserve a special law. Because once you've lost a generation in some environment, it's very difficult to substitute, not to say almost impossible. However, I think it will be important to think very seriously about whether this centralised country is really the kind of organisation that we will keep in Slovenia for the future. Last but not least, the Constitution speaks of the provinces. And when we talk about these solutions, one of them I have also tried to point out in a recent debate within spatial legislation is that we must also take very seriously the establishment of strong regional municipalities. These are all those congregations where the administrative units are located. The problem is very easy to solve, regional municipalities where administrative units are established would have significantly greater powers. It is also possible to transfer certain powers conferred on individual ministries today to regional municipalities and to organise the country in a way that will be as friendly and accessible as possible to the people, which is in fact the meaning of all developments in the country, and then to transfer a number of tasks from the country, from the ministries to these regional municipalities. This is something that would be the most effective response to all of this whether we would ever need after any special law, say, either for a border area or for a problem area. In my opinion, much less, because decentralised organisation means that economic centres and administrative centres are also being created, even in accordance with the Resolution on the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly, I think, in 2010, and it is a very good basis for us to know how to think about how to build infrastructure and where to build larger and important centres. With all these solutions, especially regional organisation in terms of the establishment of regional municipalities and the transfer of these tasks from ministries to this municipality, I am sure that Ljubljana would not have any problem, perhaps with additional means, because significantly fewer people would migrate to Ljubljana, but would remain in their environment and only when it is necessary to head to the capital or to say to a central cultural centre such as Cankarjev dom, or to sports events and other activities that take place in the main city on a larger scale, would head towards the capital. I am sure that we would save very much if we were to organise ourselves differently than we are now, but for all this is the least, of course, one very good programme must be prepared, which people will then support in the elections, and then of course we will also implement it. Last but not least, in Slovenia, the authority has the people, let us offer them such a programme, if this programme is confirmed, then it must be implemented not only in Parliament but also at the level of the executive branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u97	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and, as the last one in this part, Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. I think the first question we need to answer is whether this is a systemic approach. Is this a systemic approach to resolving or in regulating relations between municipalities? Apparently there will be an election soon, and that is why the government is coming with a new special or amended law. When the government of Borut Pahor was in office in 2008-2011, the then Prime Minister was very committed to the formation of a consortium of Stožice. There you know what it was, about 200 or 250 million euros in the bank hole were stuck in that project. The following measure was the rehabilitation of the banking system and all these obligations were then socialised. Something covered the budget, something took away from the owners of subordinated bonds, some from the owners of shares and so on. The proportional part of this bank hole was then sucked, of course it also sucked the Stożice. Who's responsible for this? Has anyone taken responsibility for this Ljubljana-National project, for which the current Prime Minister has also taken the floor? Nobody. Another special thing that happened at the time was the change in the terms of the call from the Regional Structural Fund. The conditions have only been changed for the purpose of receiving this project European money. Koper went down, I don't know, maybe some other big investment in sports, but he got it. And now there are some things running around. But no one is responsible for this invitation to tender. I think that even during the tender process, the conditions have been rectified. Then came the next government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, again made a list of projects, I don't know, 30, 35 projects, about 70 or how many million euros, and again something was done to promote Ljubljana. Some of this is happening, something probably not, but the payer of this is the state budget, we are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Now that it is the government of Mira Cerar, it comes again with some special law, where the structure between the city congregation and the other municipalities changes as regards income rights. Now I'm just asking the government, the minister who's escaped somewhere now, if that's a systemic approach. And I'm asking why it only happens when we have a left-wing government to do it that way. What does that mean in practice? The obligations of municipalities are, in fact, limited or increased by underfunded or adding tasks that the state no longer wishes to finance. This means that in all the other municipalities, which do not have a specific position, the fixed part of the budget is increasing. He's getting taller. Even where the municipalities had the opportunity to determine for themselves, for example, in the social sector, they are now doing this on behalf of the municipalities and on behalf of the municipalities. All these things change and, in a way that increases the obligations of municipal budgets, the flexibility of small municipalities also decreases. Many times small municipalities, even if there is a call for proposals, cannot run for projects at all because they do not have a quota for their own participation. It seems very unfair to me, unfair to say that all those who discuss here do not report to the congregation. Some cannot because they have relatively little free resources, much of which we have given them with fixed obligations to cover various social differences either in rents or in homes or in such or other transfers, payments, I don't know, under Article 15 for social insurance and so on. Much of this is happening, and the situation of these congregations, all the rest, is deteriorating. In fact, it is not surprising that the decision to invest more and more European funds in those soft projects has fallen, not into those key projects that municipalities need, especially in rural and periphery municipalities, but are projects for urban municipalities, superstandard solutions, financing of various cultural projects, installations, I don't know, such projects as Janez Janša and so on. However, there are many projects falling out where financing of infrastructure or other matters would be involved. That seems very unfair to me. On the other hand, I find it very strange that you say what Ljubljana needs and what Ljubljana has, has embassies, has culture, has philharmonics, has opera and so on. Now I'm just asking if the Ljubljana Embassy has a loss or any of it. Is the balance negative that some of you are so strongly stressing why Ljubljana needs to get additional resources? Because of Drama, Opera, the Slovenian Philharmonic and other large institutions make Ljubljana lose or market? I think there are other monuments that the state will place instead of Ljubljana, perhaps even today. When you talk about these things, I have to say that you should take a closer look and see whether what you're saying is true or not. It is true that Ljubljana is developing nicely, how could it not? Any city and any mayor who would receive such ratings from the state in each mandate would have developed nicely. There's no problem with having enough money. But even though only in this short period of three short mandates of Pahorjev, Alenka Bratušek and now Cerarjevjev, when this happened, received an additional infusion of about 100 million euros – and I do not know how much more she owed at that time – this is not enough. We're asking where all this money is going from Ljubljana. Perhaps someone could explain why things are done this way. It seems very problematic to me that in all these mandates we are dealing with Ljubljana, as if it is the greatest social poor among the municipalities in this country, in the same way. Previously, Weber was talking about special laws for the border, for the underdeveloped and so on, what about Ljubljana? Does this category of handicapped municipalities belong? If it belongs to the category of handicapped municipalities, then we cannot talk about successful local policy management because it is never enough. Many things in Ljubljana are state investments, much and more than in any other municipality elsewhere. The city municipality practically does not participate in anything, only with a parade, with a photo, with the presence of the mayor at the opening and so on. There are many of these investments in the municipality of Ljubljana. It's not like they're state-owned, or in rural or other places. I think that some things should be made more correct and more objective. If a congregation that is self - sufficient with more than its own income comes out, that is to say, it does not need any compensation like other congregations, then we should look at what goes wrong in this system. If a rural congregation or the majority of rural communities had such a standard in terms of income, they would not need financial compensation. This is said to be one category from the budget we would not need, but we can provide it in another way. And a lot of things would have been different in local environments, the smaller ones, the rural ones, the borderlines, the underdeveloped ones. There we could also set up our own things and projects and do them, but obviously everything is going in the direction that no financial corrections from the state budget are needed for the municipality that has far the most income. They're gone. At the same time, small amounts are taken each time to all other municipalities and are limited to candidates for various European funds. That the irony is even greater is that the municipality, which can nominate the most, is once again the city municipality of Ljubljana. As I mentioned earlier, it can participate even in funds intended for coherent regional development. The municipality of Ljubljana receives funds from the regional fund, which is intended to compensate for differences between municipalities. Then you say how we will reduce the differences between the Ljubljana urban region or the city of Ljubljana and the rest of Slovenia. There is no way you can do it because you continue to fund Ljubljana financially, accelerate, build in, the state invests, and the rest remains. And then we're dealing with or philosophizing about how to reduce the differences between, I don't know, different regions, landscapes and so on. It's impossible if you stimulate and reward or add to where it's already too much compared to others. I know that Ljubljana can be compared or compared to other metropolises, municipalities or major cities, that is logical. But he probably also wants to choose conditions like other cities in rich countries. But that also applies to all other congregations. So that there won't be a problem with the city councillors, with the state officials, I'm in favour of the funds being made available, but if we do something, let's do it systematically, systematically. Now I ask the Minister how much improvement has been made in the positions of all other municipalities against Ljubljana, or whether they have gone the same way. There you negotiate, bargain for 3 or 5 euros on average and negotiate how difficult it is and how impossible it is, but here, pk, 70 million then, I don't know how much then, now 3 and a half, by paying other municipalities and so on. And when there is any problem, there will be another socialisation of the matter or some special line will open and some special consortium will be made. I don't think that's how it works. It would be far more correct and fair to provide funds for everyone else. And maybe another word about the local environment. In this mandate or in the years since I am a Member, I have repeatedly proposed, even when we were in opposition, what amendments for individual matters. Unfortunately, too, Members who came from these areas, where I proposed amendments, were affected areas, were unable to provide more than their own voice in their Group of Members. Whether it's the roadblocks on our local road or the state road to the Petrinja border crossing, various other local projects and so on. If our parliamentary group hadn't responded last year, the Backwaters would certainly have been without a school. And probably a few more years or ten more years without upgrading the home of the older citizens who are standing there. Nothing was going on. You dropped out of school. Your ministry, your government dropped out of school in Osilnica because several thousand euros was too much to maintain this facility and to ensure that. Well, since one. You fixed it. But I'm talking about how different the approach is. Very asymmetric. Where you do not have an electoral base, it is a thousand euros too expensive to ensure the heating and operation of a branch school, but here, on the other hand, 3 million, 5 million, 70 million, and so on, there is no problem. I think the government should take care of everything without giving on the one hand an additional source, but on the other hand you will come in two months with some analysis of how developmental differences are growing and how anything needs to be done, and you are funding it yourself. The exact increase in differences between Ljubljana and others is sponsored in this way. While you still have a lot of state projects that you especially finance past in the Municipality of Ljubljana, which is also normal because it is the capital. I propose that you come once through system regulation, that is to say a systemic approach, as regards income and other things, that income be set up so that we do not recalculate how many balances we need, and there are three quarters of officials that account, but that this would be done with one matter, with one budget, with one appropriate spending, with an appropriate height and, of course, that you finally take one step in regionalisation. Everything has already been done, the laws have been passed, the money has been distributed, the functions, the powers distributed, you have 14 days of work to update these matters, submit legislation, and then the provinces will deal with their development, not as they are now when we decide and negotiate every little thing in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u99	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you, Vice President. Several debaters said it was right for Ljubljana to get more. Ambassador Desus said it was right for Ljubljana to get more because it has a real mayor. Yes, there is no problem that Ljubljana gets more belonging, but once again, not at the expense of other municipalities and that the account for other municipalities is coming, so we also decided to have a general discussion in the SDS Group. It is the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, where we can read among the main solutions to change the provisions governing the calculation of average costs per capita and the determination of the average by establishing a more transparent procedure and the mayors are counting, see in the calculation between the current situation and the new equation minus. So much for decentralisation of this country. Once again, there's talk of decentralisation and centralization is under way. And yes, it is obvious that the elections are at the door and that the so-called left political sphere will take back the same electoral mathematics. She'll bet Ljubljana as a tomato horse, and maybe here and there, some other individual, and they won't even be burdened, whether it's hiding behind old faces or finding new faces again. What bothered me today was, above all, what you Ljubljanans, with all due respect, spoke. I wrote down a few words: how all arrivals create some extra work, an additional cost, additional burdens and additional obligations. But no one knows how much positive it is when we arrivals come to Ljubljana. In our country, mayors build their local roads with municipal money, it is difficult to get finance for state roads because there are always such tendering conditions as was the last call in the field of investment in sport infrastructure, because the bigger - subtitle, Ljubljana - are the most received, and the others can hope for the next calls when another government not only talks about decentralisation, but will actually implement it. Everyone else has been talking for 10 years, at least since I've been here, about the third and fourth developmental axis. We hope that Ljubljana or every time the government will do something about it. The people of Ljubljana don't have that kind of problem. The state gives them a bypass as a state road, and there is a street of local importance, read the municipality, and there are no such problems. When we ask the other parents whether to build a kindergarten, I talk to the Ljubljana parents who say, anyway, that's what we're given. When we referred to my proposal for a debate on emergency medical care, I got almost by the ears of coalition members from Ljubljana, if there is a problem, in Ljubljana we have an emergency clinical centre, we have health care almost at the threshold, and you are citing whether it is a problem if you drive about 30 or 50 kilometers, and so on. So much for this debate centralisation, decentralisation, consistent economic development and so on. Dear Ljubljanaers, if you have a cost of coming with us, then we will probably be in the SDS Group proposing some law to take some state institution with employees to other places. When we talk about these costs, how these daily migrants — we are daily migrants — some cost, from my congregation most people drive to Novo mesto, Krško, Celje, and in this law I do not see any plus in income. However, under the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, I was told by the mayors that they would also be in a negative financial state. If we want to be equal to everyone else, then such laws should not come into procedure at all. We're in favour of having Ljubljana do something, but not at the expense of others. That it is at the expense of others shows the law that we will be considering, which is why we have already made a request for a general debate at the September session, the Law on the Financing of Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u101	Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Vice President. The common denominator is that you are all for Ljubljana, you all love it, just not today, not tomorrow, not another time, where in dreams, however, you do not discuss Ljubljana, because we have all the other problems, but Ljubljana will somehow be solved, as she knows and knows. There's one thing we have to decide. Ljubljana has a constitutional category. These are facts, and unfortunately, if you want to hear it or not, it's the only place written in the constitution. Fourteen years after we received the constitution, it took us to talk in the national assembly, in governments, in various compositions, whether or not the law on the capital was needed. Fourteen years of such discussions as we've been hearing here for three hours now. Because some do not distinguish what the average is, what is remarkable for the costs of the capital, you drag together and want to combine the story of the Law on the Financing of the Municipalities and the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sorry. Nothing's going to happen at the expense of other congregations. Nothing at all. Let's write this down in memory. Since this is the regulation of the situation between the State and the capital, not between the capital and the municipalities. Of course, you would like to sell the story, yes, because this amount will be such and so on, so all other congregations will receive less. Or else – because now I'm just guessing because you're at least three months too early – let's talk a lot about the capital today, so that we can talk more easily about the Law on Community Financing. These are two things that aren't comparable. But if we want to talk and compare them with each other, let us first decide what we are talking about. I am dividing the congregations into three categories: we have municipalities, we have municipalities, and we have municipalities that do not meet the conditions for being congregations, but we have them. Why do we have them? Because of the State Assembly, which politically formed this congregation, so that it could appoint its mayors and so that today they say a great deal that these congregations cannot survive because our citizens live there. Poor citizens did not even know what we were doing with these congregations so many years ago. Unfortunately, this was done by traditional parties, not by a new party. If we go look at this unfortunate, fabulous calculation and the key to the capital. For 14 years we needed to reach the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia, and then only two years later, just two years later, hop, ck, we need to do something and take the money because now it's got its law on the capital and this calculation, this will not work together. And so it won't be a mistake to be clear as to history, the SDS wasn't clever enough to invent the formula, what then fell under the government. This was done by SLS, Žagar, the then minister, when he made a famous calculation of how to fairly distribute money among all congregations. But it is true that the Yanshe government turned on the green light to make it happen. It worked for them. By that time, we had warned when this was happening in 2006 and 2007, and we had warned all the congregations. My dears, if you think you will be pleased with the many and so many millions that will be divided among the congregations, no, this formula has made it possible for us to have the missing formula today, as far as the Law on the Financing of the Communities is concerned. I'll talk about it more in the fall. Because, in fact, all the congregations later began to lose, not just then, the first three who had done so. It is true that the left hand share was then given by the Municipality of Ljubljana, or by Ljubljana taxpayers, about whom you have so much to say how wonderful and happy they live. And you're doing a comparison of what rich people are, and I don't know what else. I'm going to go in line. I just have to go over some stupidity and, above all, claims that are a total fantasy. And I'll start with Mr. Horvath. He talks about the indebtedness of the Municipality of Ljubljana and where it will lead. Since you deal with numbers a lot of times in your life and you like to play a little bit and talk about how nice it is to develop economically, I'm sorry, colleague Horvat, but you know this well, the more people, the easier they get in debt, the less people, the harder they get in debt. But if we look at the list of the most indebted municipalities, do you know where the Municipality of Ljubljana is? 18th. He's not one of the most in charge. And more importantly, this number has been shrinking sharply over the last four years. She was most in charge in 2011, but you know all this information, only Slovenians don't know them because they listen to your statements and statements as to where this will lead. Today it's true, you've got it right, 115 million debt. Four years ago she had 135, but with calculation not only Ljubljana Bank, the banks in which the municipality is in charge have no problems and concerns when the Municipality of Ljubljana is in debt. You know why? Because they know this debt will be repaid. However, they have a problem with small congregations because they do not know what their duty is. And it owes EUR 654 per capita. However, if we look at the most indebted municipality, which has a population of 2 000 122, it is the debt of a thousand 813. That's the problem for me. That's what I need to deal with. Why they owe congregations, but they also need to be looked at. That's the most serious problem. We are in the last 25 years after the Slovenian municipalities I am waiting only when we will start asphalting the Slovenian mountains. [[…]] As many as we've built all of them now, I'm going to say a little bit not to tarnish this infrastructure – that's enough. Instead of investing in returning infrastructure. The conditions for such projects are now laid down, where the municipalities can be entrusted in such a way. If we go back to the point, which is dark today. The Act on the capital of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in 2004, speaks of four things you do not want to hear today. 3. Article 3 makes very clear the following words: “Regulation of the conditions for the operation of state authorities and organisations and of representations.” There it is, not to me, but to all of us, Comrade Tanko has begun a little mockery and mockery, but how much money has made this burden one embassy in the city of Ljubljana. It's not a burden, but it's a liability, because there's usually a residence next to the embassy, which means two facilities. And in addition to these two facilities, there must be a special protection area for the sake of the reciprocity of countries, what they provide to our countries abroad must be guaranteed to them. However, a certain proportion of parking spaces reserved must be cancelled by the taxpayer and put into use by other countries for reasons of reciprocity, which does not happen in other countries. These are things that need to be calculated and done. I'll give you an example, look at the American embassy and then the whole street, what happened. You know what happened, I think it was around 2000, when the Americans actually demanded that the whole road be closed down and that the road was no longer a road? It's just for safety's sake, because they were afraid the car bomb would crash into this embassy. Of course, we have never agreed to this, because which road will close, the city and not the state decide. But we've agreed to those ugly, gruesome anti-tank blockades that now have three embassies around us – Russian, and American, I think, German, because it's there, it also has this protection. And it's not according to urban plans, it has nothing to look for there, but these are the distinctions that the capital gives because of such ways. Next thing. The mayor of the capital, and whoever he is, this moment is Zoran Jankovic, but one day someone else will, also has some specific protocol obligations to do. Finally, it is not only a protocol obligation, but also some of the expectations and obligations of ambassadors when they go to the mayor of the capital because they want these and those things to be settled within the city itself so that they can live. This is difficult, as my colleague Lisec says: “Speak as if it is difficult for you to do, yes, but give these institutions to somewhere else, and to other cities it will be easier.” No, it's not that, Comrade Lisec, whether it's hard for anyone to do it or not, far away from it. It is only to place on the same denominator and comparability what the taxpayer must – let the taxpayers of the Municipality of Ljubljana have before their eyes – that is why more to pay, or more things go out of budget, not least from work obligations than they would have been in another congregation. I'll give you a third case. Let's say there are state institutions here, where will the strike syndicate go? Either he's going to strike in Costa Rica or he's always going before the National Assembly and he's always going before the government and that's why the roads are going to shut down four, four, so I don't talk about everything else. These are some of the consequences that happen, they just happen and they always happen in the main cities, unfortunately they don't happen in Bučkovci, they don't happen in Nova Gorica or anywhere else, but they do happen here. You're talking about people who come here to work. I am happy if they can come to work here, but the calculation is so made that they pay their income – as my colleague Lisec said — it is only about where the permanent residence will be declared — and the income will come to where they live, to the congregation where they live. They work, they live, and everything else, so I don't say anything else, and here. And when the strike is over in Ljubljana, the state pays the Force to clean up everything that happens there – this country pays? When the cubes flew into Parliament, of course the National Assembly paid for the damage to the insurance companies. There in the market, where the cubes had been thrown out, which had been dug with shovels and scraps, the taxpayer had to pay for these cubes to be put back. That's the difference that no one wants to hear and see. The next thing I think is important to draw attention to it is to note, as my colleague Lach and my colleague Ferlug said when we talk about the Slovenian flag. I think that we have had at least three or four times this debate long and wide, so I will repeat to you that certain historical facts are facts and no one will change them, and no government, however, fantasize about the ideology of the stars, but the Ljubljana Castle has bought Ivan Hribar and given him to the city and has some other meaning, as some imagine, as just the highest point in Ljubljana. Far from the city respecting the state and the symbols it has. At each kindergarten, primary school, the Slovenian flag hangs on each official institution and, last but not least, before Parliament, the flag is elevated and it has its own special protocol post, it knows what it is for. And when not only a public holiday comes, any crown or presidential head, to the Republic of Slovenia, that day is the Slovenian flag on the Ljubljana Castle. And there are no excuses or any reflections on whether these attributes will be respected or not. That's why it seems to me that this conversion of stories, that the Ljubljana flag says and thus gives meaning to how, in fact, Ljubljana does not respect symbols, rude and ordinary falsification. And it's mean because you're abusing this place for this kind of discussion. Of course, there is a problem in the methodology, as has already been said today. He stated that he did not understand how it had occurred without some clever analysis of this calculation, 0.6 and 0.8. I'm sorry, I'm going to tell you where these calculations were made or where she dragged the median to get to 0.6 and 0.8. Janšev’s government, or then Minister of SLS Ivan Žagar, the current mayor of Slovenska Bistrica, who is the author of a lot of nonsense, which also took place within this calculation – the calculation was as follows. At the time, the highest possible figure in the Janša government was 0.58%, given the maximum of 0.78% for the Pahora government. And if we round, we'll see that we have 0.6 and 0.8, and that's that. The upper and lower limits were designed to prevent everyone from making up and jumping down so little at any time. Within this field, a piece of cake is then cut off according to the tasks. But it is really important something else that concerns me, and we will also continue to talk to the Ministry of Finance, because one is what it writes and proposes to the Ministry of Finance, and the other is how the Ministry of Finance explains it again and again. Since you still have the methodology, and so in the last government of Alenka Bratusek, when we removed these safeguards, we finally found out that only one year later when the IMF published the data that according to some of their methodology, which I honestly don't understand today, the amount is even lower than the original purpose of preventing it. And the problem with these methodologies is the most problematic. Next thing I know, it's important to mention it. You know what my colleague Tanko said, he said: “Is this a systemic solution to the problems of the congregation?” I will answer you – which, by the way, although he likes to say that the minister is going out, but now he's not in the hall, because he's strangely disappeared somewhere, he doesn't seem to be ready to face it – you know, it's not a systematic resolution of the municipalities, but it's a systematic arrangement of relations between the state and the capital, and you two are constantly mixing it up. Otherwise I will say, Comrade Tankko to answer, in 2011 the ZIPRS was a systematic solution to regulating relations between the country and Ljubljana, which, with one swing, took so much and so much money again, what, of course, in every Janša government we experience again and again. ZIPRS, listen carefully, ZIPRS, which is not even meant to solve such issues. Therefore, to ask such questions, Comrade Tanko, is a simple mockery. It's a blurring problem that we actually have before us. Until we acknowledge that we have the capital, and we will not solve these issues directly and appropriately, as organised, and what the expectations of the country have also written down, we will not have so much time to have any serious relationship and knowledge that this must be recognised. You know, it's about like basketball, if you grow up two feet eleven, you're definitely gonna play center, but you're never gonna be an organizer. And vice versa, if you're 160, 165, maybe if you're fast and you're good, you can be an organizer, and you can't dream about being in basketball anymore. And to expect today that the small congregation will be the most transit congregation in terms of transport, culture, economy and the rest, and that we will say that this is the same, forgive me, I think that someone has unusual mental processes and problems in his head. That's not how it works, and that's why these things need to be cleared up. It would be interesting to hear it today, but you hid it somewhere, for God's sake, Mr Logar, who is a city councillor in the Municipality of Ljubljana, it is interesting that he is not here today when he should defend the interests of the Municipality of Ljubljana – because he was elected to the Municipality of Ljubljana as city councilor. And if nothing else, I would teach this group of Members and my colleagues not to speak nonsense. But you hid it. Looks like he got an order not to come in here. Maybe I'm wrong, but he got sick and was justly absent. I don't know. I'm imagining it. And that can only be a big question, and it would be interesting to hear it, so I will listen very carefully next time in the city's world, where they have just as direct transfers, what discussion he will have on these issues given that this is always a problem. I wrote a few things down. The average has been mentioned so many times today, and onward, how the congregation needs to be helped. He even made a fool of himself, and he said, “Let’s take a special marriage because it’s a poor congregation because it’s suffering, it has to be helped, it’s the capital. In this context, when he went crazy from the whole story. Do you know how high the average rate the Ljubljana Municipality can get by law? 553 euros. How much does he actually get? How much does he actually get? 444 euros. Let's look at the data for Solčava, how many averages Solčava gets per head in the municipality – a thousand 294 euros. Once again, because some do not fully understand – a thousand €294. To say that the city congregation is the one who insists on getting something and that it has to get Forgive me, I will always be happy that the city congregation will be able, whenever it is possible, to survive itself, but we must not, and it is not fair, to mix two things. [[…]] The relationship and status of the capital and the attitude of the municipalities, municipalities and municipalities that do not meet the conditions. We have to change this philosophy once. As for the regions, it is clear why this government does not address the issue of the regions. You know, whoever's asking that is making a fat fool. In this country, we had a clear referendum that had fallen, and it was, of course, more than clear that it was with these regions that we would like to talk about which municipality would like to be the capital of this country. Every one. Because he sees only money, but he does not see the obligations and problems that arise. I will not even mention that they miss stories about how historic and, last but not least, the development of the place and the country, which is actually calling for where the centres should be. Because you just can't make it up. We do not have the kind of problem that Germany had, which in fact changed the capital because of some other circumstances. We can't talk like this. Otherwise, of course, the Ljubljanaians are proud of the Republic of Slovenia and of every municipality and of beautiful places, but I have a problem because today the Members here show that Ljubljana is some kind of skyscraper and that it is too invested in it. That's not what this is about. This is about misunderstanding some other needs. Why did the city’s congregations become independent and have their own associations? Because in the Community the municipalities of Slovenia were no longer able to satisfy their interests. We also have this problem here because we don't want to put it on a common denominator. The city is also proud when Members are at least trying to understand the city that it is and that it is working for the benefit of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u103	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Mr Boris Koprivnikar has the floor of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members! I do not want to burden this debate anymore because I think that the essentials have been said. Mr Möderndorfer, too, I think that he has explained some facts well in these words, so I will not go into specific data. But all I want to do is stress this as my conclusion. Today we are not discussing the system of local self-government, but the law governing the capital, and therefore we cannot directly bind these two issues because they are not actually bound by law. And if, in that first topic, which is not the subject of today's debate, I merely reaffirm what has already been said, the indebtedness of the congregations is decreasing, the surplus is increasing, the average is growing. These arguments, which go in the opposite direction, simply do not fit the facts. Ljubljana is one of the symbols of the country Republic of Slovenia because it is the capital. And as a symbol of statehood, it is also specially arranged for this. It comes daily to over 100,000 migrants, has more than 70 embassies, facing a range of additional transport challenges, events and other matters that are minimally compensated by the law that we are dealing with today. This law has no effect on the financing of other congregations. It just doesn't hold. It has no connection and has no effect on it. With the changes we want to make today, however, we simply want to ensure that there is no confusion in the part that was even a reason to encourage or to start the city's actions against the country in the past. It is said that it is clearly recorded and that the funds allocated to the capital, the Slovenian capital, are predictable both from the point of view of the capital and from the point of view of the state budget, so that they cannot be left to the correction or will of individual policies. That is why we want to make these borders clear, so that they will be predictable both for the state budget and for the capital in order to make it easier and more stable to ensure those tasks which are also clearly defined in the law. I myself firmly believe that this improves the capital's relationship to the country, that this symbol of statehood is strengthened, and I think that we can all be proud of it, just as we are proud of all other cities, places and congregations in this country. And I firmly believe that this amendment of the law can and deserves your support, and I hope it will too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u105	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much, President. I must say, after the Minister's recent implementation, I am truly afraid of local self-government in the future. Just two things. The capital is something special – yes, but the capital is also part of local self-government. Do not tell others that nothing is taken if we have before us the Law on the Financing of the Congregations. And then there's the other one. If all municipalities were to be levelled up, if Ljubljana were to receive 3.3%, then the rest of the municipalities should get what, according to the number of people in the municipality? About 28 million. And then you say that the financing of the city council must be predictable. What about the other congregations? Why, then, do we have a financial balance for those congregations that fail to make a positive move? Yes, Ljubljana is constitutional material, capital – fine, fine. But once again, not at the expense of others. And that just points to your debate that we had in the strategy for the development of local self-government when it was clearly written that there is no political will for the provinces. Today, the coalition MP spoke the most about how it was necessary to establish the provinces, but look at the fractions, the same coalition party together with the other coalition MPs at the meeting of this committee, where the minister was present, rejects the decisions to continue — not to establish, continue — measures that will soon lead to the provinces. And he said against the mayors, against the state. The mayors are in favour, but they are against the state because the coalition Members are against it. That's the only problem. Why is it a problem that only Ljubljana gets some predictable income? Because then that mayor knows exactly, yeah, so much about the average, so much about the income, he can relate to it, because he will have a few more resources, some more funds, which he hopes he will receive, the mayor of the Ljubljana Municipality, on the tenders. While other municipalities patch up what they get from the average, they fight in various ways to get as many people as possible, read some incomes as possible, and they barely spray on the current new obligations that the state gives them, on average, and on average they collect. The minister will now say, yes, we have raised the average in this term. You're a pain in the ass. From 536 to 525, and then you raised to 536 again, in the meantime you changed the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, and neither does that difference between 533 and 536 meet. In short, the mayors have been sneezing about how to get together to invest at least something, and Ljubljana will now have predictable income funding. It's nice to have it, but why not the rest of the congregation? And if you talk about how important all municipalities are to me, the Municipality of Ljubljana is as important to me as the Municipality of Hodoš, Kostel, Osilnica or all of them. However, it is not that we give special funding to this special law by law and by constitution, a certain position, and the Law on the Financing of the Congregations, where you will take care of the congregations. But you call it “the more transparent procedure of the method of allocation of the average”, read, the Municipality of Maribor will get less with this new average. For example, we know how the Municipality of Maribor is as the second largest municipality in terms of income. Because the country does not give them, even with those protocols that Ljubljana receives, and Maribor does not. People move out and they go with them – what? The income, which then unfortunately is paid primarily by colleagues from Maribor, is probably in some small Austrian congregation where they do not have these problems, because they have equality for everyone, not Vienna, but they are all in the same position. And yes, Ljubljana is an added value and must be an added value, but once again, not at the expense of other municipalities. What you're doing with other legislation shows exactly what you're talking about decentralisation and you're doing centralisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u107	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u108	My colleague, Jani Möderndorfer, has dealt with each and every one of them as he does when the President of the Government answers certain questions. Regarding the indebtedness of the municipality of Ljubljana, I did not realize that she was too indebted, but it is necessary to ask why a municipality is in charge of some monuments, for some things, for a luxury or for the basic part, such as my municipality for the construction of primary school and kindergarten. Since there is nowhere in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities the resources needed to build such an infrastructure. However, if these are funds, like elsewhere — if the municipal infrastructure needs to be charged by the network, the depreciation back, which has been cashed by the main manager of this infrastructure — the state should provide the municipalities with funds to depreciate those facilities if they have to be built by the municipality. This is probably where the Ljubljana Municipality is. This would also be quite a means if we explicitly adhere to the rules. This law about the capital is a marriage similar to Magna. Instead of solving this in municipal funding legislation, in order to clarify it, as the Court of Auditors wrote in its report, we should also try to write the original funding into this legislation, but it has been dragging me for years. That formula is way out of date. What's stimulated there? What is the primary task of congregations? Public economic services. This is also how the formula is set. So how many of these did we make? We put drinking water in the constitution, and 280 thousand Slovenians don't drink healthy drinking water. Where do we have a program? Where do we have money to finance municipalities for the construction of municipal and such infrastructure? Nowhere. We had European funds in the previous financial perspective, cohesion projects where you had to pool so many and so many municipalities, and one municipality was an investor, and now boasts that bearer municipality, how much European funds it has acquired on behalf of five municipalities. Instead of having landscapes, they would use these resources more easily and economically at this level. In the end, European and state resources should not be considered in the calculation of the municipal contribution, but rather in the network. [[…]] Total amortization. And what's the price of these services going to be in the periphery? When it is necessary to draw from village to village 5 kilometers of primary water, such a pipe for 10 houses also for fire safety and a hydrant net, how much does it cost — and who pays back? Users over the network. As far as waste is concerned, it will be charged by the Ljubljana Municipality of Ljubljana because it has a landfill or centre for half of Slovenia, if not three quarters of Slovenia and we will all drive waste into Ljubljana. Who's cashing the fees? The municipality where the waste management centre is located. For everything. And it is the manager who is responsible for the collection of taxes, which will, of course, be from the Municipality of Ljubljana. We have a bunch of anomalies in this local government. Maybe those of us from the periphery are even more allergic to this kind of marriage because we don't have anything arranged. The blame is also given to the Ljubljana Congregation, not only to others. Just not in that way then fix things when you just [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u109	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u110	My friend Lah, you really have one problem, which is that you still don't understand that we're talking about the capital law. You keep talking about the Law on Community Financing, which we do not yet have on the table, and we will only deal with it in the autumn. And all you want to do is combine the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia with the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. I'm sorry, but here was the first debate about the ZFO and you got the answers, the ones you got, and now all you want to talk about is the ZFO. We're talking about the capital law. Pika. Amen. Let's focus on these things. And the other thing is, if we talk about it, as colleague Lach says about the provinces, we will never even talk about the provinces, you expect us to talk about the provinces, and not one of the smallest things we can deal with because we want everyone, big and small, to be the same. They can't be, they can be equal, but we're very different. And we have very different needs and, of course, also very different statuses. Don't mix it up. On the other hand, when he says why the congregations were in charge. I'm sorry. I don't know why some congregations are in debt. I don't do that at all. Finally, the local community has a kind of autonomy. However, I have pointed out that the problem is that in the last 20 years they have been in charge of things that have not returned money, and that is why they have a problem today. However, it is a fact that this is still the autonomy of the local community, and let them agree and set up accounts for their taxpayers for what they owe each other. My colleague Lisec wants to make the same formula nonstop, which is: I have no objection to the capital, it is right that we have it, it is right to finance it, but not at the expense of the municipalities. Excuse me, colleague Lisec, we have the Law on the Capital of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal basis for financing the capital on the basis of the agreement and formula. We have the Law on the Financing of Communities, where we can agree on how the municipalities will be financed. If this is true, as you say it will be at the expense of the municipalities, tell me and show me in the budget the item, which is why it actually falls to the item with which the appropriate spending is financed, so that it can be given to the main place on the other hand. This is a complete bullshit and a lie! Or explain how to take political maneuvers to other congregations on the other hand, while you know that this is not true at all. And that's why turning the subject into a nice one, but the only thing that has anything in common is, I agree, my colleague Lisec, that it goes from the same budget, yes. [[…]] But we can't talk like this flat-rately because it's coming out of the same account, yeah, it's coming out of the right consumption for the congregations. However, the fact that the Law on the Capital City of the Republic of Slovenia is the same to Magna's domestic law, if you'll excuse me, can only be said by someone who is either making a fool or who really has no idea of the concept. We're talking about the capital, which is the constitutional category. And I mentioned that for 14 years it took the Slovenian people and, above all, the Slovenian policy to settle this with the law, this relationship. Today, to tell this story in a way that we arrange and adjust so that someone might like you, you know who I am, and you know who Zoran Jankovic is, and you know what kind of relationship we are in. [[…]] I am talking about the city of Ljubljana, I am only interested in the city of Ljubljana to meet the needs of Ljubljana. And I'll tell you again about those who don't understand. For many years I worked alone in the Municipality of Ljubljana and have never and never thought that others should go worse. On the contrary, congregations will live well only when they help others, not when they build fences around them and watch only what happens in their fences.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u111	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I guess as a member who does not come from the Ljubljana City Municipality, i.e. from the capital, I have the right to a free parliamentary debate. That's what the constitution allows me to do. And if the Government's own representative has already said in the opening implementation that this law is, of course, linked to the Law on Community Financing and that it is likely that today it will not be possible to avoid discussion of the Law on Community Financing and I do not divide municipalities, not citizens at all, into three categories or more. For me, all citizens and citizens of this country are one, and this is the highest category. Whether they live there in the north of Goričko or in our beautiful place, I don't make a fool of myself, a beautiful capital. In the last few years, Ljubljana has made excellent arrangements. Since the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2008, Ljubljana has also felt recognizable as the capital of one of the members of the European Union. However, I agree with my colleague Möderndorfer in the part where he says that it is necessary to analyse why some municipalities are too indebted. There's got to be two options. If someone has stolen from these congregations — perhaps very few — then it is necessary to get on top of them, all in 212 congregations. Perhaps, though, someone was forced to do so in order to provide the citizens with the goods that the congregation must provide under the Law on Local Self - Administration. My colleague Lah said exactly, more than a quarter of a million people today, July 2017, drink water, which we cannot say is drinking water under the Drinking Water Regulation. There was a lot of croaking of cameras when we accepted the change of constitution and wrote in the constitution that everyone had the right to drinking water. You in the coalition now have an overview of the budget balance for 2018, I hope that at least one symbolic euro in the budget balance has been assured that this right will also be realized. That's what we're talking about. It hurts me, it really hurts me, but I have a feeling that now we who do not come from the capital, which we respect, which we love, we debate and turn out to be fools in the eyes and heads of those who come from the capital. And I'm going to touch myself now, which, of course, my colleague Jani won't like again. People write me here to ask why there is no Slovenian flag on Ljubljana Castle. It's only right that he hangs when the crown heads and the president's heads come in. That's right, give them an honor. What about us citizens of this country? Can't the Slovenian flag honor us? Can't he? Can't he?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of thinking, which, unfortunately, I hear more and more often here in this mandate, worries me. I'm really worried because Slovenia is getting smaller every day. Yeah, it's smaller every day. You don't know that here in Ljubljana. They don't even know it on Gregorčič, or they don't want to know it. Some of us feel that Slovenia is getting smaller every day. When you figure it out, when you count it, it'll be too late, believe me. Then we will, maybe you'll start talking about it. But I'm afraid it'll be too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u113	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, 14. Seven. 2017, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 20. IN 21. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts and a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of six Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members of Parliament are the first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin demanded that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. In order to further explain the two bills, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to Mr Jerne Vrtovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u114	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, all of you have a good day! Banking crime has marked very strongly the last years of the financial and fiscal system of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sure that's true. In addition, the crimes of banking crime and the incomplete confrontation with their consequences in Slovenian society have in fact created a sense of inequality and mistrust in state mechanisms. The anger of many citizens and citizens is understandable when they see that we have a multibillion-dollar bank hole on the one hand and we cannot find the culprits for it on the other hand. It's not a whole bank hole due to crimes, but it's certainly a good part of it. Particularly worrying is the fact that Slovenia is the country with the highest share of bad loans in gross domestic product among all members of the European Union. In 2015, according to the Eurostat European Statistical Office, poor loans in the Republic of Slovenia accounted for as much as 7.5% of gross domestic product. Far from Slovenia, the Czech Republic ranked second in this infamous category with a much better result – 1.7% of gross domestic product. For the vast majority of all other members of the European Union, this indicator is below 1%. What do people, citizens and citizens expect from us? They certainly expect us to do something in the National Assembly, MEPs and Members in the area of the search for criminals in banking. And it is reasonable for the legislative branch of the Authority to expect that, in the area of the establishment of a legislative framework in which law enforcement authorities operate, it is certainly proposed that the best possible solutions be put forward, i.e. improvements. We therefore need to focus more attention and effort on banking crime issues. It's a real country. According to a righteous country, people are calling, calling to prevent the establishment of a country of double standards. Currently, the current Slovenian legislation governing the judicial treatment of more complex crimes does not know the specific form of specialisation in the field of investigation and trial in banking crime cases. However, experience and confrontation with banking crime show the high degree of inefficiency of our judicial system in carrying out procedures that would result in a judicial epilogue in the form of a conviction or an exonerational sentence. Obsolete cases of this kind of crime are in fact unacceptable. The Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office, Harij Furlan, pointed out a long time ago the problem of organising courts in the face of banking crime. In his view, we should establish such an organisation as to actually ensure that specific cases are dealt with by a number of the most experienced judges. In his view, a court dealing only with such cases would deal with cases more quickly and more effectively. The proposal for a new Law on Courts, proposed by Nova Slovenija, provides for the establishment of specialised branches for banking crime in district courts. In these sections, judges, co-workers and assistants who are most qualified to deal with banking crime shall be deployed. The proposal lays down, in view of the high degree of complexity of this area, the obligation to complement the persons operating in this section. This includes the acquisition of knowledge from abroad, allowing in an international sense the transfer of best practices into the operation of this department. The activities of the most qualified persons within the Bank Crime Department ensure a higher level of special focus, improves the flow of specific skills and gives the department clear responsibility for dealing with one of the most demanding forms of crime. We believe that the area of detection and prosecution of banking crime within the competence of the Special Prosecutor's Office for our society is so important that these processes need to be supported and strengthened. That is why we also propose to amend the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. In Iceland, for example, a special prosecution unit has been established, which has taken responsibility for the prosecution of banking crime. She was able to conduct prosecution procedures by condemning 30 bankers and financiers for her actions. In Slovenia, only 2 and these two bankers have been convicted so far. The proposal for a new Law on State Prosecutor's Office within the Special Prosecutor's Office also establishes a special department for the prosecution of banking crime. The proposal provides that state prosecutors and professional colleagues who are most experienced in this area shall operate in this section. In addition, the proposal to the Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Office states the obligation to ensure that local and foreign experts in the field of banking crime are able to assist state prosecutors and experts in this section, since the transfer of good practices from abroad to the functioning of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office is certainly welcome. As with the new Law on Courts, we would also like to achieve by means of the amendment of the Law on State Prosecutor's Office that persons most qualified to deal with banking crime could only be dealt with within the Special Prosecutor's Office in this area of criminal law. We expect Christian Democrats to support this bill's proposal by all Members who want more focus and responsibility for the prosecution of banking crime. This brings important strengthening of the authorities responsible for the prosecution of the most demanding forms of crime in our country. In New Slovenia, however, we cannot wait for the government to send its proposal to the National Assembly to strengthen the work of justice in this area. The specialised departments that we are proposing are a quick and effective solution. The specialised work of the courts has already proposed a decision in the interim report on the parliamentary investigation carried out by the so-called Logar Commission for the Prosecution of Bank Crime. On 22 November 2016, the National Assembly voted on the conclusion of the interim report on the enhanced parliamentary investigation of the Factor Bank, Probanka and Banka Slovenije. Among other things, the decision contained the following text: “The National Assembly, in line with the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, proposes to the Government to provide legal and materially with the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the organisation of the judiciary.” 74 Members and Members voted in favour of the draft decision, and none of the members of the National Assembly voted against it. Since the adoption of the decision, it has been more than half a year and the government coalition, which unanimously supported the decision and which has the entire administrative apparatus behind it, has not proposed a solution to this decision. This is why we have prepared our proposal for the law in opposition to New Slovenia this second time. I would like to stress that the bill is now on the table at first reading. In the first reading of the legislative procedure, Members, in accordance with Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, shall hold a general debate on the reasons for the adoption of the law and on the principles, objectives and main solutions to the draft law. Christian Democrats hope and, in some way, we want Members to understand the importance of effective prosecution of banking crime in order to normalise the situation in Slovenia and society. Given that all parliamentary groups in the field of banking crime unanimously support the specialised work of the courts, we expect to jointly support this bill in the first reading and to address the details of this bill in the second reading. In the New Slovenia Group, of course, we are prepared to agree and agree on possible additions or amendments to the proposal in the next stages of the legislative process. When the Members unanimously supported the decision of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, we supported the specialisation of the courts for the prosecution of banking crime in a declarative manner. Today, we have the opportunity to take a step further together in real terms to implement this solution even in practice. Let me remind you, this solution is also supported by Minister Klemenčič himself, who also announced this in 2013, even before he was Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u115	For an introductory explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. A good greeting to all Members of Parliament and to all those who are present! The Group of Members and Members with Mr Matei Tonin has proposed two new laws, namely the Law on Courts and the Law on State Prosecutors, in a work to organise and establish at the legal level the Banking Crime Enforcement Department and the Banking Crime Prosecution Department within the framework of the State Prosecutor's Office. The government, which has addressed this bill, agrees with the proposers that the issue of banking crime – not only for the banking system itself, which, by its function, is intended to ensure the security of deposits and an effective financial banking system in the country - has placed an indirect burden on taxpayers by the need to rehabilitate or socialise this so-called bank hole. At the same time, the Government considers that the proposed solution is not appropriate in view of the judicial organisation in our criminal justice system. Here I would like to complement the honourable Member who mentioned that Minister Klemenčič explicitly supports such solutions. This is in this part that Minister Klemenčič explicitly announced, and this is also in the government coalition's effort to establish a so-called specialised court central to the whole country, but we currently have four sections of specialized courts in four district courts in the current legislation. The Government's efforts are to establish, and we are also trying to implement these solutions as part of a project to change the judicial network in the Republic of Slovenia, which you also know. It is the fact that in this triad the authorities would then be: the National Investigation Office as a specialised part of the police for the most serious crime, where banking crime is also included, of course; in the framework of the prosecution organisation, we already know the specialised state prosecution; and in the framework of the judicial system, a so-called specialized court, central to such crime, would be called. Why do we believe that the proposed solution, despite the ambitions and objectives we support, would be equally inadequate? Simply because we currently have 65 judges in the District Courts dealing with criminal matters in the field of criminal justice in Slovenia, of which 35 judges are assigned to the so-called specialized sections of the courts dealing with criminality in these four courts, namely, Cyprus, Celje, Ljubljana and Maribor. In principle, this organisational approach would further disrupt this organisation and, in fact, prevent more efficient work on both current and future matters. This is because, according to the findings and analyses that we have made so far – with amendments to the legislation to solve this problem and improve it – I will say what has already been done in this mandate – we note that it is simply a matter of improving the effectiveness of procedures through procedural measures and the organisational options already available. For we already have in criminal law the possibilities of so-called specialised investigation teams, which, at organisational level, enable both the police and the prosecution to have an effective, concentrated approach to a particular segment of crime, in order to quickly and effectively conduct the so-called pre-trial procedure and, of course, then the criminal procedure. In addition, the proposed solution, according to the Government, would also pose serious risks to competence. For banking crime is a criminal concept, not imported in terms of criminal law, and if it is not clearly defined what crimes are, even though in the core banking crime is covered in the section of the criminal code on crimes against economic crime, the part which is linked is, of course, also in the chapter of criminal offences against legal traffic [[…]] In short, from this point of view, it seems to us that the matter would be inappropriate and counterproductive, as we say, but we are trying and believe that we will also be able to establish this specialised central court with your help and then the documentary and procedural flow will be more focused and smoother, and at the same time there will in fact be judges dealing only with this kind of crime. The same is true of the State Prosecutor's Office, which does not prevent the establishment of specific departments already in force with a view to a more efficient, coordinated and successful prosecution of such crime. The State Prosecutor's Office Act makes this possible for every head of the District Attorney's Office and also for the Head of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. However, in order to strive to achieve this objective, whose ambition is also your proposal, and I can tell you that we have already proposed and have not adopted a KIC in this National Assembly, two novelties during this period, which make it easier or easier to facilitate, improve the chances of more effective prosecution in the field of economic crime, you have adopted the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which allows for easier employment of experts. We agree with the objective, the path to this goal has been practically on your desk, you have accepted it, and it can contribute procedurally to the effectiveness of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is already on parliamentary benches. But I'll explain more further if possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u117	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you, President. I'm a good-bye! We are talking about this bank hole practically the entire mandate, its agents and so on, including the proposed amendments to the Law on Courts and the Law on State Prosecution. A parliamentary investigation has been conducted to find the culprits and determine political responsibility. There was another appointment at this session. Although the largest coalition party promised to investigate the bank hole before the elections, it also promised the establishment of a special specialised court and announced a special law which would allow for effective investigations not only of the bank hole but also of all the other major holes that we have experienced in this country. Also, let's say an investment in Block 6 TEC. All of this is also enshrined in the government's coalition agreement. But despite all these great promises, almost nothing has happened since the beginning of the mandate until today on this issue. Of course it didn't even reveal anything. Although the Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State Interest was incorporated into the legislative procedure, it was also prepared by the Ministry of Justice for the investigation of the Banking Hole. But the law was so bad that when we received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, it became immediately clear that it was nothing more than a cheap pear of the government. Although the coalition also wants to force this law now, after these two years, but I am afraid that there will be more damage than the benefits in this case. Most of the work, as regards investigations into all missed projects in Slovenia, was thus taken over by the opposition instead of the Government in this mandate. In addition to the commission of inquiry to determine liability for an investment in Block 6 of the Šostanj Thermoelectrica, which was determined at the request of Levice, a parliamentary investigation into the causes and culprits of the bank hole was also determined, including at the request of the opposition party, as well as today's amendment of the Law on the Courts and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office come from the opposition party. The solutions provided by both proposals may not really contribute to a more effective detection of the culprits for the bank hole, but it is definitely a fact that they would contribute significantly more than the government's solutions. For one simple reason, there are no government solutions. Although the government says it has done a great deal in this area. Yes, it is. It has done so to increase the penalties for certain offences, to extend the limitation periods, to introduce certain other legal changes, which, of course, are not considered to be retroactive. So that most of the government measures that have been taken will have an effect only if the bank hole recurs or occurs again. Apparently, the Minister of Justice also did not learn much from his visit to Iceland. Iceland could be a good example by condemning 30 bankers, including the management staff of three domestic banks, as a result of a bank hole in prison. This is 30 more than Slovenia, which, of course, has not been able to condemn anyone to date. On the proposal of Levice, also in February 2015, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission adopted a decision instructing the Government to prepare within three months all necessary to seek a forensic review of the resolution of the banking system. More than two years later, we still don't have this base, and we probably won't get it either. In this area, therefore, there has certainly been a weak lack of capacity, and in the light of past experience, it is quite clear that, in order to avoid any similar stories, one key thing must be ensured as soon as possible, public supervision of banks. Only banks under strict social control and state ownership can be socially beneficial and only under such supervision can it be ensured that they act in the interest of those for whom it is most important, i.e. people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u119	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u120	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have two pieces of the law, the courts, and the state's attorney's office. Again, it's the opposition's business. We expected from the government that the situation in the field of repressive organs, the police, the prosecutions, the courts will be settled, but none of the laws will come to an end because they are not well prepared. Financial crime is very important in the further development of the country, if it is limited, then the country is developing, but as far as financial crime is concerned, the economy cannot function. Detection and prevention is only one small part of this fight against such crime. And especially the prosecution and the court find and prevent, judge only the worst forms. Much more can be done by financial institutions. The problems that lie ahead are the problems in knowledge, the problems in experience, the problems in organising and managing these institutions and, of course, the people who occupy key positions. If we look at the proposal, there's no other way, if the coalition doesn't do anything, we have to support them. And in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we certainly support the proposals. It's just the first step. Where are the problems of the two institutions mentioned? Like the D.A.'s office. Of course, the prosecution has its own problems, which we have repeatedly pointed out: the problem is in human resources education; in the career system of these personnel, until the ambush, the highest function; in the quality of the complaints, why we do not measure prosecutors in the quality of the complaints, we see their progress; and, of course, in the exploitation of specialised and common investigation groups, which the European Union has repeatedly warned us about. It's just one small piece on the prosecution's side. What's on the court's side? Only when we look at the annual reports we receive each year can we see that there are many problems in managing criminal matters. For example, the number of cases received is declining. Interestingly, the number of cases resolved is also falling, 10 % less. And we have multiple criminal judges. In particular, the problem is raised by specialised sections of judges involved in complex cases of organised and economic crime. Here it is interesting that there are fewer and fewer confirmed judgments. It is said that the creation itself is the first step, but we see that the system, especially at this time in terms of statistics, does not work. Who's responsible for this? Presidents of the courts and those departments that deal with this kind of crime. Moreover, the second stage is important and the Supreme Court is important, because this is where case law is created. Until we have a case-law on financial crime, efficiency is what it is. Of course, in both institutions, the career advancement of judges, which must be transparent, and in the light of all statistical and accessible comparative data, which we have seen on several occasions on our commissions, is essential, that this is not the case, but that judges who cannot demonstrate their careers are making progress. Because these are problems, we expect the government to solve them. However, these two proposals are essential for something to begin to move at all. Unfortunately, this must be done by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u121	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Teja Ljubič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u122	Dear President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Government, a very nice greeting to all! Today, as we have already heard, the first review of the draft law on the amendments to the Law on the Courts is under way as well as the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. With almost identical content, we have already discussed these two proposals at the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, i.e. January this year. The proposer was the same parliamentary group, and Members and Members then voted that the bill was not suitable for further consideration. The solution proposed by the new Law on Courts is the organisation of special specialised departments dealing only with banking crime. The problems that such a solution would bring are diverse, namely the redeployment of judges would weaken the work of the existing specialised departments, as additional resources are not specifically foreseen in the proposal. Nor does the proposal specify exactly which offences new departments would be responsible for, but this increases the risk of prolonging procedures in cases of jurisdictional disputes, as the proposal for a law did not exclude those offences from the competences of specialised departments. We are aware of the importance of effective prosecution of banking crime in the modern centre Party Group, and we stress that a number of measures have already been taken to this end, some of which are planned for the near future. The competent authorities are already working to prosecute such crimes as effectively as possible and, of course, to try these cases. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party assess that the proposed amendment to the Law on Courts is both substantive and nomotechnically incomplete. Therefore, we also consider that the proposal for a law is inappropriate for further consideration. With the proposed amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act, the applicant wants to set up a branch for the prosecution of banking crime and it would include the most experienced prosecutors and professional colleagues. The Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Office is also required to ensure that these prosecutors and professional colleagues are provided with a full complement in the area of banking crime. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party estimate that the current regime already allows, in accordance with Article 191 of the State Prosecutor's Act, that the State Prosecutor's Office is organising departments for specialisation, better efficiency or coordinated action in particular areas. So there is this possibility today. There is also a basis for the education of state prosecutors in the current regulation, including the possibility of cooperation with competent authorities and institutions, such as taxes, financial transactions, securities, the prevention of money laundering, the prevention of corruption and other areas of vital importance for assisting in the management of the public prosecutor's work. The main purpose of the proposal can therefore be achieved within the existing system. This is an essential reason why Members and Members of the Modern Centre will confirm that, like the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Courts, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u123	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We were just talking to Mr. Horvato. You're actually feeling sorry for us. But if we go to these two laws, we have to say this. You predicted a judicial reform. You listed it and the Minister wrote it down in the presentation about, in my memory, I have things there, 15 measures, 15 drastic changes to the laws that he will make to bring down the so-called judicial reform. Well, from this we now have adopted, in my memory, two or maybe three laws. Next thing I know, it's broken and stopped. The Ministry has prepared nothing, at least what we're saying today. We are therefore talking today about the establishment of banking crime law enforcement departments in the specialised state prosecutor's office and the establishment of specialised departments and branches for banking crime in the higher courts. The motion is filed by the opposition. We already voted on this law in January, and you weren't in favour. We supported him then, of course, today. I heard a little earlier from a predecessor who is no longer here – this is typical; I don't know who wrote that, that speech – the law is not appropriate, because it is not systematically arranged and so on. Yeah, take care of him. You're 35! There are five or six candidates. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, okay, six. You've got a job, you've got a government in the back. Let's make an amendment. Don't you? Oh, no. It's simply that you don't want to do anything about banking crime because it suits you. We see how it is. Here comes such and different data on the day who paid someone for an election campaign and so on and so on. And things are relatively clear. If in Iceland, which has otherwise reached this bank hole two years before us, they put the last banker in jail 26. Last 10 years, nothing happens to us. Last time we listened to the chief of police, he said, "We're done investigating the bank hole." Now look at the numbers. In mid-September, I think that in September 2012, I was given a list of so-called bad loans by the Government, about 3 billion of them, names, companies, loans, and so on. Later, we know that we have put nearly 5 billion into the banking system to keep it above water, as it is called. And now the chief of police says, "We've even searched a bank hole." I'm aware that anything in the bank hole can't be a crime. This is clear to me as a white day and do not correct me in this sense. But the police stopped at 460 million. So the police found out about 460 million bank holes, and this is considered a crime. Now, according to the practice it is, even in investigating other crimes and seizures between the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, the situation is relatively clear – that about half the prosecutors throw in the trash bin because they say that there is not enough evidence, is not a crime or anything. It's probably gonna be something like that. However, we have about 20% of possible convictions. I already said in 2013 when I returned from the interior ministry to this Parliament that nothing would likely happen. Nothing's likely to happen. And we're on the right track for nothing to happen. But, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the coalition. Also thanks to a coalition that doesn't want to, doesn't want or want to accept the minimum things that we have here today in order to take some step forward in searching the bank hole. That's not what you want. Then don't say we're reading something that's not true. Because it's true. You want it or you will be responsible for concealing the crime that took place in the context of the so-called bank hole. While these two marriages are not terribly special, they are, of course, a step in the direction of, at least, desire, a step in the direction of good will so that, as politicians, this bank hole can be investigated. And of course, the coalition doesn't want that either. But I've got my readings here, and I'll be honest with you, it's already the top of my head, because everything that your experts write to you, and it's not true. Let's say something out of your head. You've got them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u125	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker, nice greetings to all! Today, we again have two draft laws on the table, which, as in their explanation, are written by the proponents, these are Members and Members of the New Slovenia, seeking to achieve more effective detection and prosecution of crimes in the field of banking crime. Since the proposals are aimed at the same objective, I will present the position of the Desus Group on both proposals at the same time, i.e. the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Courts. The fact is that we all want a better and more effective prosecution and prosecution of crimes in the field of banking crime. However, the fact is that we do not need the proposed additions in our legal system, since already Article 191 of the State Prosecutor's Act allows for the establishment of specific departments and gives this possibility to the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office in autonomous jurisdiction and decision. Last but not least, two departments already exist, namely the economic and criminal and corruption departments. That legal standard therefore gives the Head of the Specialised State Prosecutor the opportunity to address the situation of the response and, independently of others, to set up a department where it assesses that he would achieve more efficient and quality work in detecting the persecution of a particular type of crime. As has already been said, much has been said since the consideration of the proposal of the New Slovenia Group in January this year. We also opposed the Ambassadors and Members of Desus for the same reasons. Let me repeat why this is so. We certainly support the improvement of the conditions for the judicial treatment of banking offences and the improvement of the effectiveness of the courts in the proceedings concerning these matters. It is also clear that we support the intention of the applicants, but we believe that the path chosen is not going in the right direction. We already have specialised courts in the Republic of Slovenia operating in four district courts dealing with economic crime. In other words, we also legally include crimes in the area of so-called banking crime. There are 35 judges involved in such cases. I will not mention which rules, which will also lead to more effective resolution of banking crime, have been adopted by now. I should only mention the adoption of the new Law on Courts, according to which instead of one, as has already been said, four specialised departments have been organised to prosecute in the most challenging cases of criminality, including banking crime cases. These departments operate in the area of higher courts in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and Koper. It should also be noted that in the legislative procedure there is a amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which provides for new solutions in relation to the determination of the actual competence of specialised sections of the courts. In view of the fact that there is already a special group of prosecutors involved in the investigation of banking crime in the specialised state prosecutor's office, I reiterate that we will not improve the situation by amending legislation, but by making more effective use of existing resources. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Desus Group, we are confident that the proposed change would not help to improve the trial in banking crime cases. On the basis of the proposal set out in the Desus Group, we consider that the draft laws are not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u127	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to initially borrow the quote from Dr. Vinko Gorenak that the laws before us are nothing special, but fall into a category that is called rolling in one of the other branches, except that colliding in this case is not excessively effective, nor does it have any broader effects and positive results. It is a process and process of how, with minimal effort and work, to demonstrate its maximum effectiveness, and with the same or almost identical proposals that address, above all, the issues already resolved and made possible by legislation, to complete the legislative space and to gain a few additional minutes to perform in this assembly. If the interest of the applicants is indeed to speed up and increase the effectiveness of prosecution of the most demanding crimes, the legislative process will support the law on criminal proceedings, its amendment, which is also opposed by many who are fighting mainly to avoid substantial changes and reform in the judiciary. Why, let's keep the rhetorical question. Since we have not supported the law for clear reasons for the first time, and for identical reasons we will not support it for the third time, we will not support the Members and Members of the Social Democrats of both laws, nor will we support their second submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u129	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, representatives of the Ministry, dear colleague and colleagues! I can't argue with the position, but as much content as we've heard before, there probably wasn't in the history of the National Assembly. We have before us proposals for laws aimed at strengthening and specialising in the pursuit or handling of banking crime. We know very well, ladies and gentlemen, what was the extent of the consequences of such crime, and unfortunately we have not yet found the culprits. Therefore, in Novi Slovenija, we propose the creation of a branch for the prosecution of banking crime within the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. We urgently need to ensure that within this section there will be experts, professional colleagues who are most qualified to deal with such crimes. In addition, the draft law requires training, including cooperation with experts from abroad, which provides opportunities for the transfer of specific skills in the operation of the Section. Christian Democrats have taken the area of judicial treatment of banking crime very seriously. Christian Democrats have taken the area of judicial treatment of banking crime very seriously. We have proposed a amendment to the Law on Courts, which, according to a decision reached in this assembly, provides almost plebiscite support for the work of the courts. The bill provides for the establishment of specialised branches for banking crime in district courts. This section shall be composed of judges, co-workers and assistants who are the most qualified to deal with banking crime. The proposal lays down the Ministry's obligation to ensure that, in view of the high degree of complexity of this area, persons operating in this section are provided with supplementation, including, inter alia, the acquisition of knowledge from abroad. In this way, it is possible to transfer best practices into the operation of the department. If I simplify the meaning of the proposals, we want the law to ensure that banking crime is dealt with by those who are most qualified to do so and further improve. It is precisely because of the enormous financial consequences of banking crime on the Slovenian budget that the departments should be given special responsibility for the prosecution of bank criminals. In Novi Slovenija, we regret that, at the previous introduction of the bill, the government coalition has decided that, within the framework of the State Prosecutor's Office, we do not need a special group of prosecutors to prosecute banking crime, in spite of the complexity and the financial dimension of banking crime. In the debate on the solutions to the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office in Novi Slovenija, we were amazed at the non-compliance and the Government's excuses on the financial resources needed for the implementation of these laws. Such excuses, ladies and gentlemen, with such a bank hole are truly, kind of, inappropriate. Citizens expect and deserve that politics does everything and everything in its power to improve and strengthen criminal prosecution procedures in banking. This bill is going this way. Given the low performance of law enforcement and prosecution authorities in dealing with banking crime, we can ask what a signal this is for people who may be planning new crimes in banks right now. If the law enforcement authorities have not so far been successful in proving guilt in such cases, why should they be in the future? By strengthening the work and focusing prosecutors in this area, we also increase the impact of general prevention, which is extremely important for future action. We reiterate that on 22 November last year, the National Assembly voted on the conclusion of the interim report on the parliamentary investigation of Factor Banka, d.d., Probanko, d.d., and Banka Slovenije, which included, inter alia, the following text, I quote: “The National Assembly, in accordance with the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, proposes to the Government that it be legally and materially ensured the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the organisation of the court.” The end of the quotation from the decision adopted by the National Assembly. 74, 74 Members voted in favour of this motion for a decision, and no one voted against it. And now we're wondering who actually rules in this country. Is it really the National Assembly? Well, we will see today, given the decision on the appropriateness of these two laws, proposed by Nova Slovenije, that they are going into a further parliamentary procedure. Today we will see if the National Assembly really rules this country. That is why in the New Slovenia Group we expect support for this amendment of the Law on Courts. Otherwise, we expect the government coalition to draw up and submit its legislative proposals to comply with its own decision. As we do not care in New Slovenia about the situation in the area of prosecution of bank criminals, we will, of course, support the proposed amendment to the Law on State Prosecutor's Office and the Law on Courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u131	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposals for laws. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u132	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! If you look at the New Slovenia Group you can see that it is 100% represented.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u133	Presidential team, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u134	Absolutely! And I think that this can speak very clearly about how individual parliamentary groups are interested in the prosecution of banking crime. I had to point this out because sometimes things really piss me off because those who have a mouthful of bank crime have no MP in this room today to discuss something concrete and try to make some kind of proposal about how to improve the prosecution of banking crime. I understand that sometimes it is much easier to talk about hundreds of euros, about 500 euros, but perhaps it is much harder for someone to talk about billions. But when we talk about banking crime, we're talking about how billions were running, how all of us were injured by the individual Slovenian taxpayers, in concrete numbers, each of us, from one month old to nine years old and over. Each of us has more than 2,000 Euros to contribute to the recovery of all our big bank holes. And if anything, then this should be the main topic that this Parliament should discuss all the time until something concrete has changed. And that thing about swinging. Yes, there is obviously a need for colliding if there are no concrete results. So there's something wrong with the current system if there's no criminals behind bars. Look at the specific numbers. By the end of 2016, 245 suspected bank crimes had been reported according to available data. 245 sums. There were 264 people in the area. Now let us ask ourselves: How many of these persons have been tried in courts and in some way imprisoned, convicted? We can be appalled at how bad this number is. Two cases. One case is the conviction of Simone Dimic, who is now forgiven and the case has fallen, this is one case. And another case is the conviction of Boris Sand and Dusan Valenčič. This is what we have on the table today, and this is the result of the prosecution of banking crime. Nothing. And apparently, it's the prosecution's problem, and it's the judiciary. If the police insist that she's done her job. That she is doing her job effectively, then it is clear that the police-Judge-Judge line does not work as it should. If we want to change anything, the prosecution and the judiciary must first and foremost be strengthened to better prosecute banking crime. This is exactly what we come to New Slovenia, with these two laws that are before you today to make special specialized departments of the prosecution and special specialized courts dealing with the prosecution of banking crime. Obviously, I need these things. However, it seems to me that when I listened to the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, everything remained only in the words that concrete actions were always lacking. I find it difficult to understand the representatives of other parliamentary groups that so vehemently say that changes are not necessary, that we have from 265 or 264 convicted persons in two cases, that everything is fine and that so far the tools are great. I am confident that in 10, 15, 20, 30 years from now, someone will look back into the past and that future generations, us, those of us sitting in this House today, will ask what we have done to prosecute banking crime. At least we in New Slovenia have a peaceful conscience. But ask those who repeatedly and repeatedly reject the proposals of laws that would set up prosecutions and courts that would be special in order to gather in one place the specific knowledge needed to prosecute such banking crime. You're gonna think it's a silly and stupid comparison, but look at the example of Italy of how they faced their mob. They also set up special courts and prosecutions to prosecute mobs. Now, the sad story of this Italian version is that most of these prosecutors and the judges died under the execution of mobsters, but nevertheless they took a step forward with these special departments. The following example is Iceland. The Minister of Justice was in Iceland. In Slovenian media, Iceland is being exposed all the time, and only I find it difficult to understand that it is warm water, let's say Iceland's hot water is within reach and we don't want to get it or use it. In Iceland, they set up a specialized prosecutor's office, and their point was the same as ours — one place to gather all the special knowledge that can effectively prosecute banking crime. That's the whole point of this marriage. Of course, the results are very different. You know Iceland is much smaller than Slovenia, but there are currently 30 different bankers in prison and various investors involved in this banking crime. They shut down nine high-ranking bank officials and officials. And, of course, that's where the thing started to turn. Above all, he was an important example, as I am probably a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and we sit there with the Icelandic Members, and whenever I ask them about these stories, they do not forget to say that this case has been very enlightened to them and, above all, an extremely important example for people. People got confidence back in the country, because when they saw that someone stole millions, it was bolts. With us — what? But someone steals millions from us and walks around the country normally. However, if a technical controller takes a bribe of EUR 200, he is sentenced to three years. Now let us ask ourselves, who are to represent this country, how will people respect such a country? Then we wonder why people don't hang the flag at the holidays, why they don't have any respect for this House, for the officials, for the president of the Republic, for the government, and so on. Yes, if this is the way the state behaves, it is difficult to have some respect and confidence in the country. We who sit in this house are first called upon to make certain changes. Maybe someone will say that we're restoring old stories back and that hot soup is over and over again, but it's not true. Look, banking is moving forward right now. Like me, you must have been familiar with the case of all the other Members of Parliament these days in Swiss francs and their sad cases, and what the Association Frank is now exposing. When banks encouraged Slovenian citizens to take loans in francs because they will have better conditions because they will have lower interest rates. But you know what, the banks forgot to tell us what the risks are. No risk simulations were received by these people. Apparently, at some point it was more risky to go to the bank for credit than to go to the casino. Because if you go to the casino, at least you know how much money you're gonna lose. As much as you have in your wallet as you can lose it. But with these Swiss loans, you just don't know what your end duty will be. And let's say, look at these cases, it's a sky-screweding banking crime. Someone borrows 144 000 euros, 80,000 euros are already coming back, and then the bank informs him that he owes another 233,000 euros. Unbelievable. Of course, banks gave these people credits without any risk limitation. To me, this is a crime and banks are unjustifiably repulsing people. How can this problem be solved? I believe that it is these specialised courts that could help to make such a case quicker to process, to make legal practice and to establish some order in this area. And as legislators, I think we will have no choice but to adopt a special law in this area. In particular, I am delighted that in this Association, Frank is willing to pay all the debts, including the interest paid in euro loans, but it is absolutely impossible to accept that banks are now in the same way as they are. And that's a lot of arrogance, and that's again in the banking crime section, that the New Ljubljana Bank, which we all have with our own money saved and which of those who took Swiss credits now requires huge amounts of money back, much more than they've borrowed from the bank to sell these claims to some company – do you know with what discount? With 80% discount. For €104 million in claims, €104 million in claims, they are sold to a company for €17 million. And that, in my opinion, is a serious banking crime. That someone here would break down and make a fat profit, and at the same time, the bank wasn't ready for some normal change in Swiss credits to Euro credit. Not for people, but for some companies, 80% of the discount. If this is not a case that should be dealt with by special courts, then I don't know what else can be. I will not lose words about the Iranian story, because most likely one of my colleagues will talk about this Iranian story. However, it is most evident here that the mafia in Slovenia operates, a banking mafia that is capable of moving past the state summit, beyond the regulatory institutions, to conduct 800 million transactions. They're amazing, really. And this is another case that is very difficult and that would require exactly such courts and exactly the kind of prosecutions that we propose in our law. I would also like to point out that banking crime is still taking place today. And future generations will ask us what we've done. Today we have an opportunity to do something concrete and move forward. I don't want to hear any excuses about how everything is okay. If you are so truthful and honest, then you need to look at specific numbers, how many people have been contacted and how many people have been convicted. And given the billions that we have two successfully completed cases, it is sad and this should be a key guide for us to make a difference. However, if these two laws are not adopted in this second attempt, I feel more and more that those who oppose these two laws, that you are part of some stories, where everything is done, that nothing changes. At least for those involved in these dirty transactions, those who have harmed taxpayers are, of course, in the interest of having no special courts or prosecutions to prosecute them. That's definitely what he's for. But if we want to make order, then the adoption of these laws is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u135	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Prepare Mr Joseph Horvat and Mr Marko Ferluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I am now in little trouble to discuss after two debates, first after the position of the New Slovenia Group and now after this last debate, because I am saying something else. I will reiterate that we do not really need these changes, as we said in January, because the Law on the Courts and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office provides that the Head of the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office may establish a special group under section 191 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. And that if we vote now for this law, we are essentially doubling matters. The Secretary of State also explained today how the state prosecutor works in these cases. I also repeat that we have already established two special groups or two sections of the State Prosecutor's Office, namely the Economic Department and the Kazenski and the Corruption Department. So the possibility of the prosecution acting in this direction is given. 191. Article 191 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office gives the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office the possibility that, should he assess that he would achieve a more effective and better functioning or better work of the prosecution in detecting certain crimes, that is, certain crimes, including in the area of a bank hole, to be able to establish a specific department. The U.S. Attorney's Office said that they were staffed up enough to be able to do business, and that all the things they get done. However, they have a problem with equipment, so it will be necessary to ensure that the Special Prosecutor is specially equipped with the equipment they need in order to employ sufficient analytical experts and to provide them with additional education. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the importance of effectively prosecuting crimes in the area of banking crime, but we believe that key legislative changes have already been adopted. Respected and respected, I think that a step forward or step in the right direction will also bring forward a proposal that is under consideration, i.e. the proposal for a law on criminal procedure that we have under consideration. If we really want to do more in the area of prosecution of banking crime and in the area of improvement and rationalisation of judicial proceedings, I too will join the call of the President of the Justice Committee, Mr Jan Škobernet, to support the Criminal Procedure Act when it is back on the table, first of all on the Committee and then in the National Assembly. Since we are talking about the need to investigate the bank hole and all other matters, to bring them forward as soon as possible and to condemn the perpetrators, of course there is also a need to adopt legislation that rationalises these procedures. Finally, I would touch upon this call, which was also expressed by Mr Horvath's distinguished colleague, that citizens want politics to do everything, just to explore the bank hole. I believe, I'm sure, because I hear that a lot from our citizens. However, as I have said, we Members will do our utmost to adopt such legislation that we do not focus on just these two laws, which I say, I have already said that all the possibilities have been given for a leader to set up a special investigative commission, a special section of the investigative department, if he deems it necessary. In short, I am convinced that legislation is appropriate and that work can continue. As far as Iceland is concerned, I have also been able to learn a lot about these cases, and I have also read a lot, and I must say that the case of Iceland is a little different than our case. However, I must also say that there are people, citizens who have also been louder to go to the streets and have demonstrated for so long that something has happened, but because I say, legislation must be appropriate, even the Penal Code must be so written, we cannot write it down now, but it is true two years ago because we know these things as to retroactivity. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u137	The speaker has the floor, Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u138	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Quite a bit of confusion needs to be discussed and you're listening to this debate, because this non-salanty is at the same time sad, and at the same time ridiculous up to EUR 5 billion, which we have saved by taxpayers at the end of 2013. In fact, the people accompanying the work of the National Assembly, each citizen, has paid EUR 2 000 500, EUR 2 000, 500, when we cannot agree in this House to do something, move things to get people who have also cooked this bank hole and would be able to answer in a cassal and indemnity manner, can truly be concerned. And the right country is really what we should be calling about today. Look, no one in this country has ever been responsible for this $5 billion. Nobody in this country. Imagine, cartooning, in the middle of Prešeren Square, someone's been shot and we say, "We're not going to find the culprit, he fell down alone." That's the same thing as our bank hole. It was created by itself. And what would we expect? We would expect this moment indeed from you, dear coalition, a little more responsibility. I don't know if anyone's ever read this legislation, and especially SMC's in SD. Apparently not. But you're speaking against a marriage you supported six months ago. Mrs Kotnik Popotat has just spoken, we do not need this law. Same SMC. However, to read what you supported in December 2016: "The National Assembly will, in line with the essential findings of the parliamentary inquiry, propose to the Government that it provide legal and materially for the establishment of a specialised court for the prosecution of banking crime within the framework of the organisation of the judiciary." Teja Ljubič, Mrs Kotnik Poropat, Mr Jan Škoberne, you voted as well. But since in New Slovenia we cannot wait for the government after six months to come up with the initiative to propose a law, we have done this, this step we have taken ourselves. And today is the marriage on the table. But no matter what, you're going against your own minister. And I say that Nova Slovenija has an ally minister in this area, perhaps only from a pianist point of view. But what did the minister say when he was not a minister in 2013, when he resigned as head of the KPK? “In view of the scale and consequences of the bank hole, we propose the establishment of a public investigation based on the model of Iceland.” There's nothing about Iceland that's weird or different, that's what the minister said. “The investigation referred to in the previous indent must have all the necessary tools for obtaining data, irrespective of the level of confidentiality, and for conducting interviews with persons, and appropriate high penalties for non-response to the requirements for the issuance of documentation and the transmission of data shall also be prescribed. These problems are facing both the prosecution and the police as well as our investigative commission today." This is what your Minister 2013 said that this should be arranged. “The objective of the public investigation is to determine why this has happened, who are the key players, against whom it is possible to act, civil, criminal, confiscation of illicit property benefits, how to prevent such a story from repeating itself and if it turns out that something cannot be determined where the reasons for this are and how to prevent such practices from being concealed in the future.” That's also what your minister wrote down, and I'm wrong, Mr Stare, you were still on KPK at the time. And then, "The deadline for the investigation to be completed is 12 months." The Minister has been a minister for three years and you've been a coalition for three years. The findings of the investigation must be public and the whole file must be public after the investigation of information has been completed. And now one really wonders why such misdirection. Does anyone else benefit from this political space? Is that what you're protecting yourself with? The one who may be responsible for the formation of a bank hole. I will read one more thing that the minister said one year ago for the newspaper Work: "In the pursuit of banking crime, there is not sufficient progress and because obviously there is not much change in his ministry, they are now planning the establishment of a specialised prosecutor for economic crime after specialized prosecution. The practice has shown that it will also be necessary to establish a special specialised court which will deal only with such crime, which the Ministry is already preparing.” One year ago, the minister spoke or then explained it to the Ministry. The legal basis of the new Law on Courts is to be prepared in the first half of next year. Now we're in July. We just can't wait any longer. Who should we wait for? For the Minister to say in two months, are we going to prepare this next year? Can we still believe anything's gonna happen? In New Slovenia, we do not believe that anything could change. At least a little statistics need to be provided, because it seems like we threw a rifle into the corn and said it's not worth it, 5 billion euros went by and we're moving on. A few stats. As Mr Minister said, I quote: "As a country, we are not effective in detecting the prosecution of banking crime." 8 billion euros, bad loans were in the Slovenian banking system in mid-2013, before the rehabilitation of state banks began with the recapitalisation and transfer to the DUTB. A billion euros is the total value of allegedly controversial banking transactions recorded by police in mid-last year. And how many cases have the police been through? The police received 236 allegations of crimes. For 108 cases totalling around €310 million, she filed complaints. In 53 cases, over €200 million in the group did not identify any signs of crime. 75 cases worth €518 million are still being addressed, so it is gathering evidence. How many cases did the D.A. say last year ended? The prosecution received 108 complaints from the police for transactions worth €310 million. 18 requests for investigations against 56 persons and 7 charges against 16 persons have been filed. And Hari Furlan, for example, said last year in the middle of the year: “There will already be more people responsible for the bank hole before the court.” That's it. How many are convicted of all this looting? And we're not talking about $5 million here, $5 billion. How many convicts are there? Two people from the Factor Bank were wrongly convicted. But we can also go here about court epilogues in a little bit of statistics. Nova Ljubljanska Banka: 17 allegations of criminal offences, 50 criminal charges, 3 indemnities, 35 claims of property worth €170 million. The epilogue of the trial to bankers in the first instance was first reached in one case, the case of Dimic, then this story fell and now it's going back to court if we're monitoring the media. NKBM: 24 allegations of criminal offences, 4 indemnity actions totalling more than €46 million. The Bank legally lost all three lawsuits against the six former members of the credit committee, the NKBM sued you for EUR 23.1 million for renewals of loans to Pominvest, the Celje Exchange House, the Investment Centre, Gradis Celje and Stavbar. At the same time, Matjaž Kovacic and former member of the Manjo Skernišak administration are also suing for lending these five investments in one lawsuit for EUR 23.1 million. That's it. Factor bank: 18 criminal charges of € 144 million, 7 damages of €30 million. And from this story, two were also unjustly convicted, Mr Pesjak and Mr Valenčič. Therefore, Nova Slovenija decided to propose a new law on the special department of the Banking Crime Court and a special department of the prosecution. For the first time, because the Minister himself has spoken this way and in the rule of law, the Minister must be trusted. Secondly, Hari Furlan said at several meetings in the National Assembly, where we discussed reports: “The judges do not know about these specific criminal acts and we bring them proven things, we prove our arguments, all of them, but someone who is judging the smokers of thieves or of milestones in the morning, of course, cannot be a specialist in such specificities that he will then judge the bank criminals – or so?” And here was the occasion. The Commission of Inquiry on the Banking System also said that because Mr Harij Furlan was at that session of the Commission when we heard him that the judges did not understand the issue, it gave us reason to go into these changes. We did not invent this ourselves, that we now need a few more judges, specialists in banking crime, but this idea came up because of the need that those who deal with this issue are talking about. And I'm not one of Harry Furlan's advocates, a critic before. But if we were to take a responsible step, we would trust those who deal with this problem. Then I'd like to expose Prosecutor Kozin. Somewhere in 2013, if I am not mistaken, Mr Kozina said: "By the end of 2014, these men will be behind bars. They will answer criminally and indemnity.” Of course, politics and the public were thrilled in this fact, so those responsible for banking crime are also responsible. Then came 2015, and Mr Kozina said that the seed of banking crime was held in this National Assembly. All right, we believe him, he did. Legislation can also be so flexible or so flexible that the Lumps took advantage of it and took advantage of it and helped themselves to dig up the bank hole, but the task of this National Assembly, with what Kozina said, is to eradicate this seed and to make this mistake if our predecessors have made it, even in the context of the establishment of a special court, to change the course of the event. And Harry Furlan also said last year: “Just let us work.” When I asked him at a committee meeting what you needed to prosecute banking crime, what more do you need, he said: “A little support, we need it, conditions, but we are trying.” And he was able to understand that things come along from the police, and then he stuck it in the courts. And with regard to the special section on SDT — why did we do this? That's what I asked Harry Furlan, if you need a special department to establish it, if you can't, you can't, he said, I think it's also in the tapegram of the commission of inquiry, because the meeting was public, he said: "Yes, I can, if only. It can.’ As a result, we also propose a special section of the Special Prosecutor's Office in the form of a law, because you believe that if it has not been established by the SDT chief's decree so far, then it will not continue. It would also be necessary to have prosecutors who are trained, who are educated in this area and who are breathing as a collar to those who have been digging a bank hole. Other information that may then be provided further through the debate on the work of SDT in the prosecution of banking crime, for introduction only, please read the report of the Special Prosecutor's Office for last year, where they write: "Banking matters are dealt with as a priority despite professionally complex topics and scopes." They shall be treated as a matter of priority. We can believe it. “Although case law has not yet been established in this area, in ongoing court proceedings there is evidence raising, SDT is rapidly continuing to deal with banking cases. During the reporting year, there are already 20 criminal cases in court, 89 people in total, and in 8 cases a total of 21 persons have been indicted. In one criminal case, the court has already issued a judgment in 2016.” That's what I mentioned earlier. And then they state: “On the other hand, in banking crime, the success of prosecution remains uncertain, as the case law has not yet evolved with regard to the filing of investigation requests and indictments.” So let us also help the prosecutors here and support this law of New Slovenia. I'd like the government to file it, but if the government doesn't file it, I think it's the opposition's responsibility to do it. That's why we put him in. Saying we'll do it next year because it'll be the end of your term of office sooner. [[…]] It's just a hoax of responsibility. I have yet to answer or explain the inaccuracies of the SMC. It goes something like this: "In the coalition we are aware that this must be done." It's nice of you to be aware, but then you have to support such legislation, regardless of who's putting it in. And the SMC still said in its position that we did not exempt, we did not clearly determine which crimes the law applies to the court. See what banking crime is, the definition may not be clear, but tell me a better definition than New Slovenia proposed in marriage. Say better or read the definitions in Article 40 concerning specialised sections of the courts, please tell me if these are clear definitions. I quote: “In the District Courts in the higher courts, specialised sections of the courts, which conduct investigations and are subject to more demanding requirements of organised and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other similar offences, in which the indictment is brought by the State Prosecutor responsible for the prosecution of the perpetrators of those offences.” Is that the exact definition? And then, according to your logic, that's not exactly the definition. We can get involved in the definition of banking crime, but things are different when it comes to banking crime and when it comes to banking crime. If we are dealing with definitions, it can only be a good excuse for us to deal with the definition and do nothing at the same time. Regarding the fluctuation that Nova Slovenija is dealing with this topic, what was said by SD. We, in New Slovenia, will make it clear that we will continue to work to finally get a fair country in this country, that we will not have double criteria for those who stole to dig a bank hole, to take advantage of it, the police said that it was a billion euros, perhaps a bad loan that was made on the basis of crimes, to answer you. To answer criminally and indemnity. Things aren't going to get any older, thank God we have this kind of legislation here. But they can't be the investigative commission of the National Assembly that's the basic element that's investigating this story. They can't be an investigative commission, we have a legal state here, which also has to work against bank criminals, not just against hot thieves. That your secretary of state loses his job because of that pasta, he's convicted, and someone else is walking around the city and collapsing with companies, and that's from a state-owned company. Moreover, even under this government, some who were the supervisors of the largest Slovenian bank during the period of the bank's establishment have been reappointed under your government as supervisors. This is about the colliding of the same people. One and the same people, Ribnikar, Macuh, you could count. She did not re-establish these people as supervisors of Nova Slovenija New Ljubljana Bank. Responsibility is solely in the National Assembly, between the opposition and the coalition. For when the bank hole was formed, they were not divided as we were in the assembly of the State, to the left and to the right. No, no, they didn't share. They were united in the fact that money didn't stink. The one in it. Even when adopting this legislation, the National Assembly should be fully united. I expect that, through this debate and through tomorrow's vote, we will come to this unity. Mr Secretary of State, if any of the things in our legislation that we are proposing bothers you, believe that we can correct it with the amendments. And I can. Only because marriage is not so difficult that we cannot make amendments and correct them in another reading. Some comments from the Legal and Legislative Service, which has already made in the previous introduction of the law, have also been taken into account by Nova Slovenija and are now enshrined in this new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since I have a very limited time compared to you, I will try to be as telegraph and as fickle as possible. Dear Member, whether we are disturbed or not — absolutely. Objective, we fully support the purpose as you do. But if I metaphorically express ourselves, if our goal is to come to Šmarno gora, we want to come along the shortest path, where is the least obstacle, and you want about twice and then to the top. If you have a five - dress closet at home, it doesn't help if you buy a new wardrobe, because you're gonna have to move these five clothes. There won't be any added value. But to go back, I must also say, and do not misunderstand me, with all due respect, Mrs Popotat has obviously learned very well, as she said, and she can distinguish between the arrangements in Iceland that you compare here and it seems to me that wrong – I think, no, I know – you are misrepresenting, but I believe that you are reluctant. One part concerning the public investigation of the banking problem in Iceland has become the words of Minister Klemenčič because he and the government have drawn up a proposal called systemic investigations and is in the procedure in Parliament. This is the part about public investigations. However, the part concerning criminal proceedings is also different in Iceland and in essence a special law has been adopted with regard to this particular prosecutorial and police system, which has made it possible to respond more quickly and with a focus on this issue. But it's just systemic, I believe you've messed it up. It's two different things. These decisions of the distinguished National Council on the establishment of a specialised court are also possible for both the Ministry and the Government, including in view of the financial constraints in that country, from the point of view of taxpayers, in full, both in the national development programme and in the proposal for a new Law on the Courts, which is already at the Supreme Court in professional coordination, provision is made for an article establishing a specialised court and in the budget adopted for 2017, 2018, 1.5 million funds are planned by the Ministry for the purposes of a specialised court. Now that I am going back, I will try to be telegraph, and at the same time with a report, to see how I, as a listener at the same time, have to say, an acquaintance of this area, for which I am ultimately responsible and paid, in fact – I believe that you do not want to – you are making the wrong impression. Look, the bank hole was created mostly between 2005 and 2009, 2010. Governments, which until 2014, namely the Government of Mir Cerar, were informed indirectly through regulators and very focused and focused on the Bank of Slovenia's special report in 2012. None of these measures, both legislative and organisational, would in fact say that the financial remuneration was adopted by 2014. When this government comes in full awareness of this banking crime, and I don't know how many strategies even at the MNZ, since 2005, to fight economic crime, something very concrete has actually happened on the normative financial organisational salary. From 2014 onwards, what this government is. We changed immediately in the first part of the mandate or in the first year of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office and made it possible to hire experts in specialised financial crime because it was a very complicated, long-term procedure. We have amended the Law on Courts and allowed all the Presidents of the Courts to redistribute judges from the District Courts with an annual schedule, where, I don't know, 400 of them, and they are less burdened, to the District Courts, and that's what they started to use. We have amended the Banking Act to allow police and prosecutors to obtain, without orders, directly where there is no substantive data, information on bank secrecy. We have amended the Law on Judicial Service, we have amended the Law on Judicial Registry to allow online investigators, law enforcement authorities to receive independent mail and the presence of some officials all data, so they work. In the years, I don't know, 2011, 2012, 2013, and so on in the mandate of the opposition government, so to speak, as well as the fact that I am merely stating, due to the shortcomings found in the ability to investigate and detect such crime at the Education Centre, it was spent and allocated at an annual level of €150,160,000. When we arrived, we picked it up in the first year from an integral to 350 000 and provided an additional four million for training in economic and banking crime. This is a moment that you have also found that training in this area needs to be strengthened. With regard to this statistics, it is very manipulative, but the fact is, Mr Gorenak, the honourable Member said, the police have reported, 210 suspects have been accused. You know, we've already stressed this a number of times, if the police say that suspicion is justified, and that the complaint, it's a questio facti, if the prosecutor says, that's relevant. If the D.A. says to throw it away, it's nothing. As a result, we in the Criminal Procedure Act, which is on your benches, propose to provide as much information as possible on the grounds that there are no misleading or unwarranted expectations in the public. Because what's the point of the police saying, on the one hand, we've investigated everything, we've filed a complaint, and then the prosecution, who's the only one qualified, says, look, this is groundless, rejected, and they're working together, and that's why the prosecution is the superior authority, and it's said to him -- you've already heard? – master of the procedure, dominus litis. And here is the function of this orientation to work together, to work better quality, to guide and to cooperate. This is also, in essence, in this proposed law on criminal procedure, made it possible to be more qualitative and more effective. Now, as for the defendants and the defendants. So this is already the next step where the D.A. said and saw that this was a reasonable suspicion. We have 90 natural persons, 90 people are accused, so there are trials against 90 people, which means that the investigating judge has also identified a reasonable suspicion, and against 4 legal persons. The defendants are said to be already an indictment – it is generally an indictment because it is the jurisdiction of the district court – but it is 36 natural persons and one legal person. And now, after your proposal, we see the biggest problem and problem in our criminal proceedings in the previous phase. This is a predictive piece led by the police under the direction of the D.A., and this part that goes to trial. For this reason, we are also encouraging the novelty so that as many evidence as possible can be obtained in a more efficient way in court, even during the premonition phase. Then it is not necessarily necessary to have legal investigations that take place year after year, two, but not because individual cases would be so difficult, because they usually involve more defendants and before they are all hot, but as they are abroad, as a rule, 80% of the time is spent serving these acts, and then, of course, they have all the remedies – which is right not to misunderstand – but 80% of the time is spent serving. By this logic, we strengthen, comparable to other countries, that predictive and preliminary procedures are more effective. So we can't say that there's no effect, that nothing was done. It's been done a lot. And if we compare now with Iceland, there will be no misunderstanding. They started working in Iceland in 2008. The convictions, these first ones, were 2015, after seven years, by the fact that the Icelandic system does not have three degrees. They don't have a higher court. There's the first stage, and then there's the Supreme Court. And in our case, according to the scale, there were bank crime amounts of more than ten billion because it was also about other forms of crime, not only bad investments, mostly, but it was about different forms of this crime, and it was a lot of money, much more than we did. If you look at this number that you're referring to, you'll see that things are very comparable. And now to say what seems important to me, given your proposal. Our criminal procedure, when the case comes, is that when the prosecution comes before the court, a relatively fast procedure takes place at both the first and the second stages. And I can also complete Mr Tonin's statement, which he said, we have two judgments, one is unlawfully convicted, one has been abolished. Also, the one who was essentially exonerated, with the person you mentioned, last week was suspended as an exemption and goes back to the first stage. Just like Iceland. In Iceland, they had their judgments annulled and in 2014, it seems to me, or 2015, not to hold me to the floor, the Supreme Court annulled the first judgment and then, in fact, it was possible to work more effectively. And this prosecutor of theirs, who led these cases, used an illustration, using a method on the head of a reverse New Year’s tree because of a host of cases. He focused on two, three cases that, according to his belief, were well founded and proved to be so strong that he would come to a verdict and then be able to work on it. And basically they did two, three cases first, they came to the Supreme Court, which annulled the first degree exemption, and then it was a glass case. And I think that we have a very similar situation with us, so that we can find out, I think we are pleased that our courts were faster, given that this has only begun to do so intensively in 2014. One of the honourable Members said that, at the end of 2015, 2016, the police said that we had so many people accused, and now look at how many people we already have in the first degree of unlawfully convicted, how many accused we have and how many accused. This is not a negligible result, but I absolutely agree that it could be even better and that we could be even more effective. But the fact is there's a lot to be done. That makes it seem right for people to hear that it's not just some expectation that's supposed to be, but that it's nothing. But our shared responsibility is to do more together. That is why I am pleased to hear Members of the National Assembly today, who also support the amendment of the CAP-N. And I am deeply convinced and I hope that I am not mistaken that this is one of the most important tools that can make an important and important contribution to making this preliminary process even more effective. As it is said, the trial is relatively effective, the most time is spent on so-called judicial investigations, which are not necessary if the prosecutor obtains sufficient evidence in the pre-trial proceedings in order to be convinced that the charge is justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferluga and Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Mr Stare, I have no reason to believe that you have indeed done everything you have mentioned. [[adverts from benches]] Yeah, you mentioned it was a lot done. Of course, much has been done by the National Assembly and so on, but, Mr Secretary of State, Nova Slovenija is close to people, really, not only our slogan, but indeed. You know our field visits and so on. Perhaps you would come with us once so that people might tell you something about their trust in the rule of law. And look, the simple people, including those of the 208 thousand who live below the poverty threshold, contributed to the bank hole of 2 coins, those, with all due respect, did not fully understand what you were saying, and they tell us very simply, by human logic: "You know what, dear Members, dear politicians, I am interested in the results. Results. You do everything, you have free hands, we have chosen you, but please take those who have taken us." It's a very simple message. That's what simple people say. And I have listened very carefully here today to reading the position of the largest, most powerful parliamentary party and, among other things, it has been heard that “some activities are planned for the near future”. Ladies and gentlemen, the near future is the end of the mandate. This is also what Dejan Židan is talking about, at the end of last year, when he said after one of the coalition's tops: "Now is the time for this coalition to show results." I agree with mag. To the real Jews, the signatories to the coalition agreement. Political parties go to elections, we have some serious programs, we've been working on this for many months, we've been hiring experts, even outside, but others go to elections without a program, they set their faces, and they say, look, this is a new face, now it's going to be different. People just make up their minds. But like the dawn of democracy in this country, it is likely that one day the belief will grow that people will ask those who won the elections, that and that and that you promised us. Where are the results? And they're going to say very frankly and directly, "You lied to us! Political programmes are, of course, different. We know what our system is. We have a proportional system. We have coalition governments and the government's programme is a coalition agreement. It would be better if it was called a contract. What else does he think is left than reading the coalition agreement signed by Dr. Miro Cerar, already known as mag? Dejan Židan and Karl Viktor Erjavec, and in chapter Justice and the rule of law, page 36 of 72, wrote in point 5: “The possibility of establishing a specialised court of the Republic of Slovenia.” Just read it. I also invite the public to read it. I don't have much time. Moreover, when it came to a bank hole, then I went to watch the coalition agreement again, on page 10 of the Programme Part of the Coalition Agreement, at point 4.1 of the Bank and Insurance, Measures No 3, Investigation of Bank Holes and Definitions of Responsibility, and so on and so on. It sounds good. It reads well. And again, simple people will ask you. I'm interested in the results. I'm interested in the results. I am sorry that my dear colleague, Marjana Kotnik Poropat, has now left the hall, she has somehow mentioned my name, and I have a duty to tell her that we live in democracy. And she said, "I'm looking for something else." Yes, of course, it's democratic. I argued and, on behalf of the Group of Members, mentioned and recalled a decision supported by 74 Members, no one opposed to setting up a specialised court. This was a proposal to the Government, of course, the executive branch of power, because it cannot be established by the National Assembly. And now apparently colleague Marjana Kotnik Poropat claims something else. The public tells us: Take those who took us through the bank hole. Colleague Marjana Kotnik Poropat says something else. The prosecution of banking crime is ineffective. I am sure that we agree with this statement in the majority, but colleague Marjana Kotnik Poropat claims something else. I have made a lot of promises from the working visit of Minister Klemenčič and the delegation from the justice system in Iceland. There must be some good experience there, which, of course, we follow through the media. That things cannot be painted in Slovenian space, I agree, but there are certainly some experiences. And even more, normally, when you're in opposition, you don't support the government and we haven't voted in favour of this government, that is, not Minister Klemenčič. However, if you go to analyse our vote, the vote of Members of New Slovenia, you will see that we have confirmed many of the government's proposals or coalition amendments when we have assessed that they are good to bring good solutions to our people, to our citizens. But even though I did not support Minister Klemenčič, I made a lot of promises from him and from him and in the field of investigation and prosecution of banking crime. Why? Since I am in front of the Logar Commission, that is a good name, that is a good brand, we all agree, but I took part in the previous mandate in the Pogačnik Commission. And there we heard Mr Klemenčič, President of the KPK Commission, that we all know what this is. Yeah, I thought we already had all these bank hole drills in our hands, just five inches to grab them by the neck. He said that they had reviewed 40 credit maps in banks – because you can read this in the KPK report – and that these maps are actually controversial loans, if they were aggregated at the value of credits, this sum is about a billion 600. So the average loan approved in this one map is a simple account, 40 million. And we all know that, and the public knows it, Klemenčič's statement, and yes, there the boys in Tržaška on the vampires agreed to a loan. And yet, we listened when the meetings of the credit committees were recorded – I will not issue any bank secrecy, do not be afraid – but then at some point the video was the same as silence. Of course, it was an audio recording, it was just a sound recording of what the chairman of the credit committee showed or did not show, we don't know now, let it go, but the credit was granted. And even the very right President of the KPK then invited us to come to the KPK premises and to have the parliamentary commission of inquiry look at this map in the previous mandate. Of course, we didn't go. Now that Mr Klemenčič was appointed Minister of Justice, I was so naive, I was really naive, I expected that there would now be a very effective prosecution of banking crime. The mandate is coming to an end, the results are on the palm and the palm is empty. And that hurts. This pains me, our people trample, they can't go from month to month, 280 thousand live below the poverty threshold, which means that a single-member household has less than €617 a month's income. I know their plight, especially on the periphery. Some said, I don't trust this country anymore, there's no future here and they're gone, but that's another topic now. Anyone who leaves because of this and with such knowledge in his heart from Slovenia, I am sorry for everyone. I would expect this government to feel the same way. And so much talk about KKP-N now, yeah, bring it in, and we'll see what it is. We are now talking about the laws proposed by Nova Slovenije. Of course, it is the easiest thing to say in the position of the Group of Members, but you are repeating yourself again, and what you are doing, without effort you have just re- tabled two of the same laws and blah, blah, blah. I'm sorry to use that term. Then you bring something that will be effective, which will produce results. But time is running out. Time is a very important resource, very important, also linked to obsolescence. You all know what I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you. With all due respect, honourable Member Horvat, I honestly think that your debates are always with interest I listen to, are substantive and so on, also on other committees where I have the opportunity to participate, and therefore I think it is valuable and important for me to complement something. Look, I don't know now, you mentioned that Mr Klemenčič was talking about 40 credit maps. I think it's a misunderstanding. He could have talked about 40 things, because I know it, and I was doing it at the time, and there were some maps, too, but we had 40 cases, which we also gave up in the form of announcements or complaints, whatever they were called, to the competent authorities, especially the police. And that's what I want to say. You say there were expectations, and now you open your hand and it's empty. I told you before. Since 2014, 215, now 90 accused, 36 accused. In view of the fact that there were three, four banks owned by the state, there were 80 % of the bad investments from all banks in the Slovenian banking market, this is not a small number of people. That's not a lot of people. And most of all, we have to admit it now, whether we want it or not, I want it because I believe it is justified, the police and the prosecution, who have brought the cases and investigated it to the point that they have justified the suspicion that it is also obvious that it is already justified for the court. Of course there will be a final epilogue in court. That's what the court is for. But we can't say there's no effect. And the key role and the most deserving of this situation are currently the detection authorities in our country, i.e. the police, including the tax authorities and others, including the regulator, perhaps in the last two years, and the individual banks and the prosecutor's office. We, as the executive branch of power, with your support or what you have done, have supported certain laws that have made it organizationally, financially and normatively easier and have encouraged this to happen in the last three years, because previously Zero Koma Joseph, as we say to the people, is our common result, let's see it. Let's say that's the result. But it is right that we ask ourselves more and more of others to be better, for there is still an opportunity, and there is much more to be done. And we're trying. This really hurts like it's nothing. That's not true. It's just not true because that's what all the numbers say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Yes, this debate about banking crime and persecution, prosecution of criminals is always a thank-you topic, but I will allow myself here to go a little wider to somehow ease my soul, because these are such great pains that are probably present in all ordinary people. What's this all about? My question in all this is what ordinary people think about the functioning of the judiciary and the prosecution. I think there's been a lot of talk already, and I regret to say that we don't really have a lot of positive things about this. When we talk about a variety of court practices, one wonders whether these people can't set up a case-law, can't set it up, can't set it up. There is one big question, because I believe that judges and everyone else have a certain education that they have something in front of them. And to see that there was not enough practice of oppression, specifically banking crime, in this case, I wonder, it is best to draw one fisherman from Piran who will now not know where to fish and then come here to judge if this gentleman who is supposed to judge has no judicial practice. I really can't accept this and I can't understand it. If we have appointed the judiciary as an independent, sovereign, independent, and with all the insolent, wage and all the other ratings, and if these people can't once begin to judge that they know. I would say purely descriptive but very simple, simply, I would believe in justice, the judiciary and the prosecution if we were to work on one principle of the game man, not angry. Why am I saying this? Man, don't get mad is a game that has a field of play, you know the rules exactly, and when some rules are broken, you just go out. This thing is so simple. In this famous phase of human rights and all other rights, we forget what is most important. To the truth. There are some legal acrobatics and lawyers and lawyers and all these intellectuals, and in the end, when you look over the line, you see nothing. In the end, one man who did not pay the bill for 200 euros loses his house and it is very easy or someone who built a house in Triglav National Park 30 years ago will tear it down without a hitch. But you have one gentleman in the Sečovje that has a fruit dryer, but he has made a megagalactic fairy, of course it doesn't collapse, as it hasn't collapsed to many people, and it's been replaced. So people, I'm just saying it out of my mind, are just tired of listening to all these ping-pongs, what we've done, what we haven't done. Bruts are scary that people don't believe in justice, and I'm sorry that I have to say that. I don't want to crash with the ashes because I don't have anything. And it is true that what Jože said is very well written in the coalition contract, which is why I am even more disappointed with myself and my client, that it does not apply as it should, as far as it is concerned, when we are talking specifically about banking crime and the prosecution of banking crime. Man always feels, even with me, that at some stage we're also here, inside of us, trying somehow to do everything so that nothing happens to me. Every honor to Angie with this commission, that he proved that things could move. Why we didn't, it's another question, but here I absolutely support it, and these matters need to be cleared up. Because if we have easily pushed these 5 billion into this bank and that some are very close to politics, such as Mr Pahor's advisor, who gets credit in a pretty way, others can't get any credit on such matters, and that's all normal, then I don't know what kind of society we're coming into. I expect from the judge that he will judge not by saying, yes, that's paragraph-by-paragraph, that's legislation, but by showing the ordinary man that he knows exactly what's right and what's wrong, and when he knows what's wrong, that it won't happen. While I am more radical in these respects, I would almost prefer to vote that for this Sharia law, which everyone avoids, that those who lie have cut off his tongue, and whoever steals, his hand is cut off, and then it would no longer be done, but the fact is that in this beautiful society we only parliament, we work 3 000 500 laws, and every law has a hole, we avoid, we have one Mr. Bavčar, who once has a heartache, another can't go to jail, now he's asking for a sentence. What are we reporting? What do we tell people? We tell people it's great to commit crimes because no one is going to end up like that. No, I'm lying. They're going to end up in prison stealing chickens for a little bit. What do we say when we see that thing that was in Dravograd when they had the American pursuit of a young boy? Nothing. He walked out without any problems, or it's out of this context, but I have to say this because he's lying on my heart because I can't do any more of this. Yeah, we're making legislation here, but I would expect some proactive action from the judges, if they're already so independent and so sovereign. We have also made it possible for this government to give 30 new prosecutors, so that I also expect some results from this. And you know, this bureaucratic sitem, which has been created in these 25 years in this dear Slovenia of ours, is that everyone cares for his own feud, judges for his own, prosecutors for his own, but beyond that nothing can be done. Unfortunately, I also come from the economy, I have been little not in the economy, but in the economy the results are required. Judges should not be pressured in such a way, otherwise pressured, and should not be pressured on efficiency. How? The best thing is that they're sacred cows, they don't answer for anything, nothing's wrong, and the world goes on. People, I love, because I speak from my point of view, we have a suitcase full of it. It's really enough, enough of all of these, I'll say, acts, this law and these legal acrobatics, which aim at blurring the facts. However, the facts are always simple. You know exactly what's right and what's wrong, you know exactly what a full-year-old person can and can't do. There are morals, there are ethics, whatever you want, but there are laws. If these laws are to be broken, man must answer. Now that someone gets sick, that they can't, that I don't know what and that the courts are so lenient and so humane and so humane, and so humane, I think almost, because I think that every ordinary person and every taxpayer who pays these taxes here has both the right and the right and can demand that the courts are effective and that they clearly show when it is wrong and what is wrong. Speaking of Iceland. Yes, the facts, as Mr Undersecretary has already said, are different. There are some ways in which these matters are carried out, different, but the point is that the culprits were proved and sent to prison. With us, all that the police have done now, which has to be admitted to her that she has done a very large part, now this connection between the prosecution and the police, I agree that she could be much better. I couldn't agree more. Because, like you said, the prosecution is the one who runs this procedure to direct them in the right direction, because the police can somehow lose the compass a little bit and they don't have that much knowledge. But the fact is, if we want to put this country in order and this country is very small, it can be very easy to get it in order if it wants to. And here's the point: if you want to. But if we're going to play these ping-pongs and political games and legal acrobatics, then we're not going anywhere. And that's the grief. I think that this country deserves to see order, discipline and responsibility once and that everyone is responsible for their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I also hear most from people, from our citizens: "When will those who have made such a bank hole be condemned? When will those for whom we had to put so much money back in the banks be condemned?" We hear that all the time. That's what we all hear. And I have to apologize again and again as a Member of Parliament. I can't lock anyone up, it's not in my power. All I can do is warn, we can only make laws so that the courts can work easier. Our purpose in proposing these two laws was precisely, as you yourself have found, to make something concrete so that the courts will be better, more effective to work more easily. Finally, the prosecution's report says that there is no case law in this area. I've heard many times myself that judges don't have enough knowledge. We know that thieves are always one step or more steps ahead of those who have to investigate and persecute. We're all aware of that. As a result, our aim has been to re-introduce laws to remind us that, however, our courts are becoming more effective in persecuting crime. If we hear that there's not enough knowledge that they're not educated enough to lack the power that complaints are poorly written, how much things fall due to procedural errors, so what we as legislators can do. That was our answer, and we repeated it again, not least when we heard the report on the bank hole, but we all supported the conclusion that this special court or prosecutorship should be established. That's when we knew it. Then, I believe that you are coalition MPs in a dilemma, or that you should re- back up some law, but if you know that your government has told you not to support it, because it will be done somehow differently or with another law. I understand. But you know, in the end, we are Members of the people's eyes, and we are usually guilty of everything. Many people do not even differ, I apologize to all those who know well who adopts laws, who rule, who decide in courts, of course many citizens know this, but many do not. And in the end, we are messengers who steal, who are guilty of not closing anyone. Which bothers me very much, but it's when some house investigation with a big pump, with cameras, happens terribly, many times when there's a delicate topic in Parliament, it's been in the past many times, and then nothing comes out of it. That is why people do not have confidence in the rule of law. Then we have known personalities who say that the case will probably wear off. Yes, it really takes people's will and faith in the rule of law. Of course, we as politicians are guilty of this because we have done nothing. That is why I expected much from the Minister, too, because at the time he was the President of the KPC, he himself found that he had given known cases of corruption and had not been further processed. That's why I believed that he would be the one to move things forward. If I listen to you, Mr Secretary of State, I have no data to be able to object to you in all that you have been saying and saying. I hope that what you're saying will really come to an epilogue someday and that we can all say, "Yes, in fact things are moving for the better." I really want to do this. Thank God I don't have much experience with the courts. But I have one and not so long ago when I was defending myself for a client. For such a banal thing, it was a very serious judgment with long records. However, due to the 200 euros pointed out by someone to the old bill at the time of the election campaign, it has not been recorded in the current year. Of course, Members, we are the first parties to adhere to the laws, but I thought: “At this time this judge could still do much more necessary, necessary, useful things than to deal with a really banal matter.” The sentence was high, but the process is still pending. This happens to us all the time. There we're talking about five billion people who went somewhere for which pensions could be much higher, and also scholarships are a lot of other important things, and that money isn't, and it hurts people. Are we ever gonna get him back? Is it possible that these billions will ever come back to Slovenia, which has just gone somewhere? That's what people are asking themselves. And as politicians, like those who adopt legislation, of course, we wish that we would not be the reason, the reason why things don't go forward, but that judges, prosecutors, all those who pursue crime, have strong tools in their hands so that they can work effectively. This is what I want, like the one I'm adopting here in Parliament. And when people see that we are all the same before the law, that we are also known as political personalities, that they answer to the courts and their cases do not get old, then everyone will also believe more in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u149	Secretary of State Darko Stara, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u150	Your Honor, there is simply nothing to add to this that you have said. But all I want to do is build trust. It is because of today's debate that I have obtained this point from the State Prosecutor's Office today, because we, as an executive branch of power, cannot influence the court's decisions – which is right, there will be no misunderstanding – that I have obtained this information and I can assure you that they are credible, and I have no doubt that they are correct. 90 accused of banking crime at this time, 4 legal persons, 36 natural persons accused and one legal person. This is information from the U.S. Attorney's Office today. And now it's a matter of judging the courts as to how the proceedings will proceed. I have no doubt that this will be relatively fast in view of the experience so far, as it is said, at the first stage we can expect a relatively fast decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah and Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u152	Nicely greeted! To talk about a law which, however, is supposed to provide a fair country for all those who do not actually feel a fair country, but with such a poor participation by my fellow Members, I think it may be a little unrealistic, especially in view of the fact that it has somehow been estimated that we have 75 billion money in tax havens, that we have invested 5 billion in a bank hole, which consequently, this money, landed somewhere in tax havens. And if every citizen asks what we would gain if we had the right legislation in this area. Surely a more social state, a larger pension, should not have to think about any pension reform, it would not be necessary to think about how much we will raise the minimum wage, whether the minimum wage will be raised by 8 or 12 euros per year. The minimum wage could be such as to be comparable to the Austrian minimum wage. Of course, if we had, we obviously don't have it, although sometimes I say we have good legislation in Slovenia, but we don't do it if we had legislation that would actually step on our fingers and find all those who did it. Once again, 75 billion. FURS said it wasn't 75 billion, 50 billion, as if we were talking about 75 euros and 50 euros, but we're talking about billions that would really help to be proud of some of our social states, and unfortunately it didn't happen even though you, Mr Stare, say how many of them are already accused of banking crime, 90. You know what, there can be thousands of defendants, and if no one is sitting down and no one is fully charged, of course, the matter is not carried out to the end. However, I think that the proposal of both laws of New Slovenia is going in the direction of moving something. I can also say that we have taken all these four years to believe that the Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin will bring something more and that the law will start to be implemented and, of course, there will be some measures and that it will happen in this area, but we find that no and that the work of both state prosecutors and the work of the court must be strengthened. I went to see for myself what happened in the last year, in 2016 in court and in the prosecution. We are talking about the 2016 Annual Court Performance and Performance Report. Speaking of which, something's going on. On page 67 of this report, that I am not going to read everything, you can look at what things they actually have. The situation is improving. I'm not saying no, but what things are lagging behind or having extended hands? And these are more important things. What are these more important things now? Are these matters, which are in fact also more financially important, materially important, or are they more important if a milestone has been moved? I tend to believe that more important matters are those that actually have a broader impact on the whole country on confidence in the justice system. As I read, the average age of outstanding cases decreased by one month in 2016, while the average age of outstanding major cases decreased by one month in the Supreme Court, the Supreme Labour and Social Court and District Courts, while the average age increased slightly in other cases in the higher courts for a good 0.4 months, in district for 1.4 months, in the Administrative Court for 1.1 months, and in the Labour and Social Court for 0.4 months. So, the things that are actually those, I'd say in my jargon, in the sky-screaming, have been extended. So, something has to be done here. And from this point of view, I also see Mr Klemenčič's commitment, which he said, we will do something in this area to put these things into practice, and things simply stand. We can wait, I can show you how much pressure we have in Members of Parliament, on the ground, on visits to say, but do something already, because actual confidence in justice, despite the efforts of all of us, does not strengthen us, but only worse or simply people do not trust in some legal state. It seems to me that I had a very talkative annual report from the state prosecutors for 2016. In here, we have a very detailed way of working out how, by what kind of crime, things happen. Although I am now most interested in banking crime, I can say that this may also be part of some crime of money laundering, if I can look at it, even in the light of Iranian business, and not least I am a member of the investigation into vascular resistors, and this topic is more present every week in my employee. It seems to me that it is very important here, but it should be stressed that although it is less relevant than the colleague said, it is also possible in some way to be less resolved. And, above all, I'd like to mention one thing here. Speaking of our law. Here it clearly states, quote: “The prosecution, which operates in the border area, also reports this year on procedures relating to remittances of money from a neighbouring country. These are transfers to the bank accounts of companies established in our territory by foreign nationals. The bank account of such a company is indicated by allegedly dirty money and then in cash it is raised or transferred again to various accounts of companies abroad as invoices and, with the modified documentation, it shows the most frequently non-existent business events. In relation to these developments, it is necessary to draw attention to the difficult or long-term verification of whether these suspects have already been convicted or treated abroad for a previous crime, which is said to have resulted from a non-centralised record of criminal proceedings.” As a result of the uncentralised record of criminal proceedings, the treatment of such acts may therefore be delayed for years. I don't have anything else to say that something doesn't stick around here, by the way. That there is no single record of criminal proceedings, I think it is very important, we can also talk about the European Attorney of State if we are talking about some international transactions, but I am afraid when you, Mr Secretary of State of Stare, tell me whether this relates to a Slovenian finding or to a European finding concerning this record, because I am very concerned about this record. Why? Because if it isn't, then it's him, I'll say, the President of the U.S. Attorney's Office, the first to warn that things aren't here and that these matters need to be unified. Because it is easy then for all citizens to feel that small fish are being fished and that large fish are being washed away or that the nets are being torn apart. And I'm going to give you an example that actually disturbed me a little bit in this report. The case where the defendant and the other co-conspirators stole a bank card that then raised money on ATMs, the source of the money that he knew was obtained by the crime, covered up the fact that he had completed a delivery and an account for the items that a person was supposed to have supplied. Do you understand? This report mentioned the place of the bank card, not something bigger, such an action that actually blows a hole in all our taxpayers and raises our taxes as a result. Because once again, if we knew, especially if we were allowed to collect those 75 or, if it was 50 billion, I am sure that we could be such a tax haven where we would have taxes that taxpayers and citizens would gladly pay because we know that such taxes would allow for good education, good health and all. But now the taxes are such that they are simple and, as I can see, still seem to be continuing in the coalition, what kind of taxes would they remember to tax people even more. It seems to me that action must be taken and I do not understand why you do not take the New Slovenia proposal, but I have listed only two cases from the State Prosecutor's Office's report as well-intentioned to make some specialised state prosecutor's office that will specialize not only in bank cards – even if it happens to you that someone steals a bank card from you if you do – but to focus on matters that are actually big. I cannot pass today's publication, which was here, but I can quote Klemenčičičev saying to Jankovic: "The law has been the same for everything so far, with your case the case is changing." And this case this week. This change in court practice – with some certain people in this country, the rules of the game change for all citizens. Is it in the interest or is it not in the interest of all citizens and citizens? I am convinced that if one case was good, because of one case it was going to change judicial practice, then it seems to me that we are back in a field where other judicial practices can be applied, and then we are in some collapse, in a system where you can't really expect any judgment. Of course, there is also a problem for judges or for prosecutors who participate in these cases. And here I also refer to the words of our President Novak, because it is indeed true who is served by media-reflective arrests and house investigations. Those who are under investigation, because this is a silent pressure on all those who will be judged in these media-response actions. And then there's an obsolescence, and not just an obsolescence, there's a selective treatment of these persecutions, there's a selective, time-selective treatment. Some process will take place in a very short time, and we will wait for another one by hunting for two days of obsolete hands. All of this is influenced by this public media lynch. I think that our two proposals in the law would also help to bring this to an end in this country and, nevertheless, begin to restore confidence in justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u154	Your Honour, I would like to answer your question. First of all, this part concerning the modification of the case law in this current case. It is not a matter of changing the case-law, but it is a decision of a particular judge, a judge’s derogation from the established case-law, which has been in force since 1994, since the Criminal Procedure Act, and of course it is illegal. However, as regards these records and the record of criminal cases in the prosecution, we have looked at this record a year and a half ago, at the prosecutions, and in fact their application allows the prosecutor, when he receives an indictment, to see where the district prosecutors in Slovenia are against the same person who has already been indicted and so on and can make a list, because the function of this view is that he combines the procedures for economics and then in the same time window against the same suspect leads the proceedings in one court. However, since this has not been done in practice and we have identified a number of cases in which the same District Attorney's Office has filed 5 complaints against person A of the same offences, in the case of four different prosecutors, and is conducting separate proceedings in the same District or District Court, this is absolutely unacceptable. For this reason, in view of our responsibilities for the permissible influence of the matter, because, despite the discussions, I encourage that, however, the ODT Head of State Administration should ensure that this is not the case, we have now in the Criminal Procedure Act, which is on your desks, prescribed that this is essentially a rule, a command, unless for some serious reasons unification would make it difficult to proceed further. These are the mechanisms that we all know are problems that can be improved, but nothing happens. And then it lasts, it lasts. And that's sad. And that's our shared responsibility. I expect that these laws will be supported and that such risks will be managed significantly more. But it will still exist, of course, because, as you said, criminals are always a step forward and then the system responds. For this lack of competence of certain builders or prosecutors, judges or police officers, this is not just the case with us, this is also the case in Europe, because technology, information technology, method of execution, in general economic, social, business life is evolving, of course it needs to be adapted. That is why we have spent 4 million euros in resources and have also attracted foreign experts, judges, prosecutors, police officers and so on in our training process. We're just doing these things, and it's clear that it takes time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I thank the Secretary of State for his presentation. I think that only Mr Ferruga, after I spoke a few hours ago, spoke by the coalition, but also by the other opposition parties, is acting, unfortunately, as if this problem does not exist in the country in fact. I'm sorry. In the National Assembly, too, we will be asked how you acted at that time, why you did so and how you voted. But, okay, in New Slovenia we have a completely peaceful and clear knowledge of this. You have mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, the Šmarno Gora, that we have the same goal, just to go around us a few times, a few more circles than you have done to come to the top of Šmarna Gora, which was in another element very famous. So you're saying our journey is longer. Look, we have a way that's longer and that's on the table. Do you know what your problem is? For the first time, the elections will get ahead of you, and for the second time, the lack of unity in your own coalition, if not in your own party. And you also felt this in the National Assembly 14 days ago in just one vote on the Criminal Procedure Act. The problem with such things, I am sure, is also what is the coalition, what is the unity of the government itself and also what is the unity within the individual party. Regarding our legislation, I am sure that about Iceland sees it, as Iceland has not mentioned New Slovenia, Iceland mentioned you, Iceland mentioned Minister Klemenčič. You went to Iceland. I understand what you're saying. We're just summarising what you said in 2013. Now I can only point out that none of those points, despite the fact that three years have passed since the start of your term of office, which you have written down on the KPK, have been completed. The problem of banking secrecy is also a problem. You've listed the measures you've taken, and I'm admitting them, great. But do you know what the problem is? That sometimes we can take action, but if it's not the efficiency we're expecting, then there's another problem. I still think that, given your actions, there is a risk that the maggots on the other side are very frisky and that they can control how to bypass the system. And once again, I stress what Mr Kozina has said, banking crime is extremely specific and it is not easy to act. There is another problem, and another problem is that, as they say in the police and as they say in the prosecution, banking secrecy and cooperation with bankers is a problem. At least in the case of NLB, we were told that in the National Assembly. I don't know what it was like today, but I know how it was a few years ago. And investigators actually face problems. Do you know that criminals had difficult access to credit cards? Okay, we respect banking secrecy, but, you know, I don't care if I have to give 2 000 500 euros on behalf of this banking secret. And I'm just wondering, what kind of country are we in? It is not this government's fault not to think, not to take this personally, but in which we are such a country that is different from Iceland, but let us leave Iceland now, we have already mentioned it too many times today, or which differs from Ireland's banks. Remember the case of Austria. Hypo banka, the flute is not only in Austria, but through the branches of Hypo banka by Slovenia and Croatia, the presidents of the governments flew for this. Our officers were just watching the German private services arrive in Slovenia at the Hypo Bank, and Mr Gorenak will remember that and take responsibility. That's how you solve banking crime. And it was very effective. Today, the bank has been cleared, justice has been served and people are sitting and many of the Prime Minister are sitting. Is he one of our politicians? At the time, I know the secretary mentioned something, but last time it was all quiet. No one was hoping to say, dear Austria, but what are you doing in our country? They went past our law enforcement agencies, their own services, which they hired to clean up the bums, literally, and they were effective. And I wonder what we need to be so special about that those who dug the bank hole don't answer. And more than a person follows – I hope that you are monitoring the meetings that are within the commission of inquiry because they are very famous, I tell you that someday there will have to be a book about this, because people in front of all those gathered there are losing their memories. I've never seen anything like it, I don't know, with my own two-year-old kid. Such sclerosis in adults, not too old, but you don't get it every day. The problem we've got is staffing. At the beginning of this term, I am sorry, I was sure that SMC would lead a different policy. In the fall of 2015, when new supervisors of the New Ljubljana Bank were called, I lost this hope completely. You know, we have to trust people, and I trusted you. But to appoint those people who were in that crucial period, I believe that some of you may have been appalled within the SMC, but you appointed those people who were back in the period of digging the bank hole in the responsible positions, for a period of two, three months, so much that they replaced the President of the Administration, the whole administration, and then would not have obtained the consent of the European Central Bank and left their positions previously if there was no confidence in politics. Oh, shit, there's no trust in politics. They did their job, then they went. And secondly, in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, look at the fragment, you know who's sitting? Mr. Zunich. I don't even know him. But then when he was named, like so many people, I just went to see who that person was. And I read a man who was the head of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, who, inter alia, signed the contract to Marjan Kramar, the President of the Management Board of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank for a discharge of EUR million. Was this appointment to your president in the cabinet a reward for doing this? I hope not. But then we can't talk about how to prosecute banking crime. I am not saying that Mr Zunič is responsible for the bank hole, but the shadow of doubt may be, because this gentleman, you will not see this on the website, at his presentation as an employee in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, was the Executive Director from 2006 until the liquidation of the Factor Bank. And I'm not going to talk about the Factor Bank, how it worked, because you've accepted the Factory Bank report. But what I'm talking about is that wrong policies in the very frame of mind – and one and the same people are swaying around all governments, through all politicians, and there are one and the same people. And once again, it's not about the lions, it's not about the camels, it's not about the camels, it's about these people making a deal different than us, and they're collapsing and they come to you and they come to us. And so, if we do not change this way of action, that we will also give an opportunity to some younger generation, to people who have no stains from the past, we will be able to take some steps forward. See, about the New Ljubljana Bank, which is now also ongoing due to the investigation, I really wish that other Members of Parliament, on TV at some point, what you see publicly, as I have already said, the most common answers are "I don't remember" and then "I don't know". And then one gets the feeling that our banks really ran complete incompetents who don't remember signing million loans. And against the many that we have in the bunker below, it is said, against these many there are no police investigations, the police have never been there before, many of them have never been knocked on the door, had no proceedings before the courts, and probably never will. I am not saying that and not everyone is an unsecured loan or an unsecured loan of a crime, it is certainly not a crime, it is also a bad business decision, it is another circumstance. But these things are just too much. And people just can't believe this conjecture that we're witnessing from former or current bankers. And if we don't, then no one will ever do that to change these things. The new Ljubljana Bank – it also financed crime or crime. And I'm going to point out one story of the branch, the New Ljubljana Interfinance Bank, how the boys gave 50 million euros to one Serbian company, this is Invej. That money was never returned. Never. Something was selling, but the main thing never came back. Is that why anyone's sitting? No, no, no. We see, however, that it was the Balkan criminal underworld, six months ago, the director of Inveja was assassinated, he got six shots, otherwise he survived, but he was part of one clan in Serbia, etc. It's not a lonely case, but now I remember him in a moment, and I'm sharing him with you, but since it's also been publicly mentioned, there's no classified information. Credit, say companies, was also possible in the past, but look at the fraction, then the same person who signed credits for a particular company in this company, when its mandate at Nova Ljubljanska Banka, was terminated, got a job. It's buying jobs, if not other jobs. This was happening at our biggest bank. Or, I'm going back to the Factor Bank again, they got the money for the investment, but this plot, this land wasn't construction or wally. And it went to a few million euros. Do you have any idea what responsibility these people had? And these people don't have anything to do with these acts. But now you're going to say to me, "Oh, you're biased, you're only going to mention Forum 21 members." Excuse me, Ring 1, Bell 2, Crime. The new Ljubljana Bank led Zvon 1 and Zvon 2 as an unrelated company. Why? Then there's T2 in there. Why did she lead as an unrelated society? Because they were coming for credit. On Bell 1 the maximum credit was already reached, then they could get the maximum credit at Bell 2 and then the goal was the same. What we call is that justice is enough. If we don't do an epilogue in this area on the conviction of banking crime, if we don't do an epilogue here, then people will justly not be angry, because that's the least of it, but they will say, do you see, in this country, it's worth being a thief. Is that what we want, such examples? I don't think so. Previously, the Secretary of State said: "It has also been seven years in Iceland, eight years before they were convicted first." Look, it's been less than a year in Austria, and Ireland, too. Slovenia is dealing with this problem and Slovenia is also dealing with the problem of having the biggest increase in bad loans in the European Union. And you think it just happens by accident. No, no. It's got some background. And other countries, as I said, have solved this problem. And I'm really wondering what we're so specific about, what we're so different from, that we can't tell, we'll get justice. Those who have dug a bank hole will also be responsible for this. If they have money abroad, they'll bring it back. Even in the field of how much of this money went into tax havens, we should at some point adopt laws in this national assembly to at least get some of it back. Some of the data published in foreign magazines speak of more than €10 billion. We have also just spoken in this national assembly in other discussions about the money that went through some Slovenian foreign companies, KB 190, abroad, I have already mentioned the Interfinanz, but also, in other words, this money, probably something abroad, and we should try to bring it back in the National Assembly, for example, following the example of German practice, which, Mr Secretary of State, I am sure, he knows this money, he knows, he is trying to bring it back. And again, I wonder why they could have adopted legislation in Germany that they had received accounts not registered with their authorities in Luxembourg, Switzerland, and the number, the sums of those accounts and the money brought back to Germany with certain discounts, the German government was willing to negotiate with these people. We do not have any legal practice or legislation in this area. However, I believe that the money went out of Slovenia also because of banking crime. A lot of this, I agree with the D.A., went up in stock, but not everything. Definitely. Malpractice. We think that these people were only demeaning when they did so, when they did not purposely sign such contracts and so did they. Well, far from it. Look what's going on. For example, to say criminal, I find it difficult to get a credit card — something that is completely absurd. I think we have to agree with that. While I have no problems with another private company, it enters the New Ljubljana Bank and discovers this. I don't have a problem with this private company coming into the bank and having access to credit cards if it's very effective. I will also give him more EUR 800 000 to do so. [[…]] But the fact that criminals don't have access and that they're dealing with these problems is unheard of. But see, incomplete credit maps, then scanning credit maps and planned blurring pages where some key data was available, or cutting credit maps: Do you know what we're talking about? The fact that the credit card must be completely complete, that it must be followed and that on the basis of an insight into the credit map you must know all about the loan in question, about the things in question. But it's not like that in the New Ljubljana Bank. Now we come to the point where we can talk about why the New Ljubljana Bank is not being sold. Not because Desus and SD are going to say that we need a system bank, that we need something that will credit our investment projects. Oh, shit! That's why you don't sell out. Because of these things, and that's why these things are going to happen in the future. The sale of the New Bank of Ljubljana should indeed be a systemic plan for this ruling coalition if it wanted to cut through this Gordija knot and then say no to banking crime. But until the New Ljubljana Bank is sold, we will be witnessing banking crime in Slovenia by then. But back to back, the real court, as you did at the Ministry at first, and for that purpose you also went to Iceland, if I am not mistaken, or then you gave a press release, which is now published on the Ministry's website: "Specialized Section, in our opinion a special section would be a solution." [[…]] It may be, as the minister has said, two rounds more than they have planned, but the path is reliable. This path, which you now have, will first come to regular parliamentary elections if they are not sooner. Definitely. For even a coalition, I am sure, Mr Secretary of State, it will not be uniform in this respect. Even when you mentioned the success of the prosecution earlier, I would like to remind you of some things that are not exactly examples. These are the items contained in the 2016 annual report on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Courts. See, 38.4% is the number of pending cases in specialised departments. In one year, it increased by 38.4% compared to 2015 and, certainly, if we want to have control over what is going on with banking crime, we should have specific branches for banking crime, so that we can monitor exclusively the effectiveness of dealing with banking crime. Also with regard to other crimes, for example, I will recall the confiscation of property of illegal origin. Our success for last year – I drew a comparison with Serbia and Italy, how successful they are there. Mr. Secretary of State, how much did we take last year? Nothing. Nothing to natural persons, nothing to legal persons. It's like we don't have any illegal assets. I think it is. We're just ineffective. It's just a few stats, you'll say. Yeah, it's a statistic, but it's painful statistics. Painful statistics, because when you go among people, you see simple individuals fighting for their daily bread, they get 600, 700 euros in wages, and on the other hand we reward you to become a secretary of state or someone is reappointed as supervisor of the New Ljubljana Bank, despite making mistakes in the past. And I'm stressing again. Don't think we're equating that every bad loan is a crime away from it. But banking crime was happening. And under our procedure to set up a special branch of the Banking Crime Court, we would certainly be closer to a solution, and justice would be served. I'm sure there would also be more people sitting behind the counters and answering the damages. It is still time to move the debate in the direction of the confirmation of this law and to adopt amendments in the second reading. I, Mr. Secretary of State, know that you know this is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. As the last in this general work, Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I am allowed time, and the debate went a little wider than those two laws. You spoke a little earlier, Secretary of State, about the case, about this complaint Jankovic and these two years, about Žgajnar-Kocjančič. And now here I see that the media and someone else directly put themselves in a position when the D.A. missed the case. However, I think that this is simply the situation and it may be worse than that, in my opinion, it is the reverse situation that Judge Kocjančič wants to change long-standing jurisprudence. And I'm afraid she will. Because if there is, we don't have a problem with the Highlander, but we do have a problem with Kocjančič, which will lead to a very large amount. So here I think the minister should raise his voice, but if he screams in Ljubljana "they will fly," I will help him because I agree. But let him do it, and tell him that, because I think someone really wants to change the jurisprudence that has been in place in the last period. Otherwise, the following must be said in this law: I had read a contribution to the media a little earlier; there was someone in the New Town - and we are talking about the rule of law, on the one hand we have this 5 billion and a bank hole and the attempt of New Slovenia to amend two laws, on the other hand we have Vaskrsić, who you know sold him a house worth €124,000, and that we will now pay the citizens 85,000 euros. So the rule of law is working in this poor man. Today, in the New City, he has committed suicide by another poor man. Look what happened in New Town. That's what the media says. An auction was made for the man today, which took 111 items, 111 items worth 13 euros to pay a thousand 500 euros in debt. And the man locked himself in the car, detonated the bomb, and we have a dead man. What does that mean? This means that the country with justice works just as well as it does and gets into these little chicken thieves and help 5 billion. While I am happy, Secretary of State, these numbers that you mentioned, so many accused, that, that, that, that, that, that, okay, but if you compared matters with Iceland and if you said we were better than Iceland, then 26 October 2018 must all be in prison. Then we'll be really better. All those 69 or how many you said he was already accused. If it will be 26 October – why 26 October? – that is, we are two years for Iceland, so I am talking about 26 October 2018. If they're in jail, I'll be just happy. On 26 October 2018 alone, I will not be able to ask you any more about this matter. Yeah. But how will it be, I don't know. However, I am very glad that Mrs Porotat is here. Look, Mrs. Popotat. Let's do something to expose the bank hole! Yeah, well, I gotta give you guys a round of applause, and I'm in, 'cause that's what people want. Let's adopt legislation! Yeah, well, I gotta give you another round of applause, 'cause I'm in. You supported the interim report. The Logar Commission's interim report stated that a specialised court should be established. You were in, I was in. Congratulations. But you will vote against the law. Yeah, how's that? How's that? Why are you now against the law, but if you've supported an interim report that says it's going to be a specialised court? You're telling me to adopt legislation, take a step and so forth. Yeah, then why are you against it? You get the feeling someone's crazy in here or someone's twisting your hands. And I was very pleased to see Mr. Ferluge perform because he spoke from the heart, and now he's gone, and I don't know where he is. I think his boss is raising his hand or how it is. [[advertising from the hall]] Help him, because the man was right about what he was saying. See, Secretary of State, you were at the KPK when that notable document came into existence, that everything must be investigated, investigated and publicly published within one year. Yeah, fuck, no, not as it's called at home. Now you've got scissors and linen. The minister became your former boss, you became Secretary of State, and now it's been four years and nothing. What the hell is this? It is said that this was the EPP report. What's the matter? Was it a poster? When we go to the polls, we have posters. Did you have that or what? So it's not exactly like that. Now one more thing needs to be stressed. You said, accept the CAP. Yeah, throw out what doesn't belong in there, and we'll take it! Throw out what doesn't belong in there! And the other thing you hear from the CAP that you mentioned is that it gets better. Look, once again, I say who supports him in this country. Who's behind him? The prosecution no, the Supreme Court no, the Bar Association no, the opposition no, the profession, the three criminal professors of three different colleges no, all those who took part in the public presentation of the opinion no. Coalition? Hell, that's how it is. When it's not lit out there, you tell me, "He's forcing us." So, the minister's blackmailing you. Yes, that's how it is, so I've been told, in all three parliamentary groups I've heard it. Look, throw out what doesn't belong to marriage. Well, then there's no problem in confirming such a law. But you compared Icelandic matters to the Systemic Investigations Act. Who's in favor of the Systemic Investigations Act? The government's legal service, no, the National Council of Law service, no, the opposition, no, the profession. The coalition has been moving from committee to committee for a year and a half. I don't think they're in. But the Law on Systemic Investigations, people need to know that, I've made little use of this time for these things, because they're indirectly connected. Look, systematic investigations, this is a law that is something you must never bring to the National Assembly again. What does that marriage say? The law says the government will have some systematic investigations. And these groups will lead — you know who? Former Constitutional Judges, former Chief of the Supreme Court and Supreme Judges, former Head of the KPK, and former Chief of State Prosecutors. Here, we have this ad person of one 20 uncles who can run this commission and the other no one. Mr Klemenčič writes the law that he will then be able to do something again, as on KPK, approximately. Who are the investigators? Criminals, cops, prosecutors, judges, Dacaries and others. Look, all those people who have 24 hours on the day they're authorized to act. They didn't do anything at work when they came into the government's room, but they don't have any more judges and no more D.A.P.D., and they don't have them, and now they're going to investigate everything. Yeah, how? That's crazy! That's ridiculous! This is the law I hope the coalition will never accept. I hope so! As for these two laws, as I had previously foretold, we will support them in being fit for further consideration. I don't know how the decision is drawn, if it's the opposite, we'll go against it. Because they're going in some logical direction, in some normal direction, they're trying to contribute to the investigation of the bank hole. As for that case, please tell the minister I'm going with him. The heads will fly. Because I think it is necessary to do this right now, because it is a very serious thing that has happened by Mrs Kocjančič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government, Mr Darko Stare, gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the proposed law, I would only stress this in order to ensure that we are able to make every effort to ensure that this objective is pursued along this path, which is already in the procedure and all the procedures, both at the normative level in the form of the draft Law on Courts prepared by the Ministry, both at the level of finance and organisational measures, so that a specialised court is adopted. So I believe that we will achieve this goal and that this law will then be supported here too. Otherwise, I would only add this in this short time that I have at my disposal that I do not wish to discuss in the way that Mr Vinko has now learned. It is simply that people who do not have material in front of them, who do not know the contents, believe for such and other reasons that it is all true, what they hear. That's not true. Look, the Criminal Procedure Act. They're not against all the prosecutors, all the courts, all the judges, and so on. Against a few people, legitimately, is justifiable, which is the achievement of democracy. And it is only a matter of persuasion and at the end of decisions or responsibilities that the National Assembly has. That's why it's a division of power. However, the fact is that those who, as representatives of the individual bodies of the builders of the judiciary, are the most opposed, I can ensure that they were against two years ago amending the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, where we have made it possible not to so easily avoid the occurrence of a prison sentence. A popular lex Bavčar was appointed. They were against the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Property in 2012, against the imposition of IMSI-catcher, which could significantly facilitate the work of the authorities in the predictive phase already in 2005 and 2006, which is what we now want to do effectively, even though it was and was available to and used in the country. The same people who opposed wrote opinions as credible and competent that it could be used, even though it was not in marriage. But that's legitimate, respectable, and in the end, someone who has all this information has to judge the content and decide. And that's it. The same is true of this system law, which you have so adaptedly presented to the public, which does not know this content. Look, in Austria, Mr. MP Vrtovac mentioned Austria, the Hypo Bank. The government adopted a decision, set up a commission and investigated the banking issue. And in the end, it came to this: a government decision. In England, the minister takes a decision, sets up a commission, takes the case as they take it. They've been doing this in Australia for 100 years. It is simply that this is not a criminal investigation, it is not a determination of the responsibility of individuals, but it can be a result, but it is a disclosure of the backgrounds of the stakeholders who have worked and I understand because I also know a little from before when I was working on why the entire political spectrum, from TEDT, is not for this to be accepted. The EGF applies to all Europe, including England, Austria, Ireland and so on. They don't have a problem there. We now have a legal problem, however, whether this is systematically compatible with the adoption of such a law in our country. And it's all there. But we have prepared this law to the best of our ability and in the best of our faith and brought it to Parliament. This is a matter of decision and responsibility. The tools are available. And I often say, you can give the expert all the tools, if he's lazy, he won't grab it, but if he's not qualified, he'll use it badly, or he'll use it even harmfully. Therefore, this is a matter of responsibility for all those who are in these positions of responsibility. I'm hurt by this manipulation that's actually making some kind of impression, like everything sucks. See, this is available, we are signed under this, but now let responsibility be accepted in Parliament. Not everything on the average. You say the law is with nothing. Three articles. And those three articles that are most controversial for these experts by these authorities, which you do not appoint, are articles that have a base or incentive for us in your conclusions. Mr Logar, his commission adopted a decision already a year ago, two, within its mission, but a law on criminal proceedings should be adopted so that the police, the prosecution, can also question the witnesses and so on. Decision: Let the specialised court establish that also at organisational level, the institutional level will be as current as possible. Everything is based on decisions that have been taken almost unanimously in the National Assembly, and at the end, when the proposal comes, but there is always an expert, as you say, that experts have told me, and that is now very significant. Just let them show up and give their arguments. This is a democracy, not that we are negotiating, let us be convinced on the basis of data, arguments and so on. Not just something. We are signed and made available. And that bothers me. This marriage has been here for a year and a half. So I expect the debate to be in the autumn, because it is so foreseen, and then we will see, we will say ours, and you will make a democratic decision as Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u161	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the motions' representative, Mr Jernej Vrtovec and the representative of the Government, please also apply by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u162	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are talking, the New Slovenia proposalr, about two laws, this is the judiciary and the prosecution. Most of the time, when such laws or additions to our laws come on our bench, we listen to how something can’t be done. Dr. Vinko Gorenak wrote in his column today to say that people will understand you. And I'll try to say it in five sentences so people can understand us. Before the elections, the largest coalition party arrived unburdened in the National Assembly. All the reasons and conditions that these bank scoundrels can be plagued or given to the committee that was established in the National Assembly, the possibility that they may come to you as soon as possible, I will say, the scoundrels on the surface. There is no doubt to all Members and Members of the largest coalition party that conditions were not allowed at the time of election. But what happened? Mr. Klemenčič is your minister. At that point, all the conditions fell so that something could happen in this area. The Secretary of State is in the biggest trouble today, when one sentence says wrong, the Minister may call him today and he will probably no longer be Secretary of State next week. And I totally understand him. And you're not burdened here. We've heard today, in the halls they can often tell from all the parliamentary groups that Minister Klemenčič is putting pressure on you. And for God's sake, why is he holding you? This is the basic reason, and also the filter, why some are disturbing these two proposals of the Law on the Judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office, and this is the main filter that is massing so that something can be changed in this area. All institutions, from the police, from the judiciary, are agile, and there is no concern when it comes to 20, 50 or 100 Euros for an ordinary citizen, but I do not like to speak now, the epilogue takes place in such a timely and qualitative manner. But when it comes to big money, there's a filter. In her speech, the honourable Member from Desus also said that some institutions lacked the necessary equipment. Ladies and gentlemen, for once, the equipment is here in this National Assembly. Each of us has this equipment. These are "plus" keys and "minus" are "ix". If we want to make changes in this area, I see two points: that this minister goes away and that for the laws we have today and we will have them in the future on our tables, we press the “plus” button.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u163	Before you proceed, allow me to inform you that the State Secretary of the Stara has also applied to the debate, who will act as the last. Due to technical problems, it is not recorded on the list. We continue with Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would answer to the distinguished Mr Podkrodsk, who said that I was talking about some equipment and that we have this equipment in the National Assembly. Look, I was talking about the technical equipment you'd need because it's out of date, which makes it difficult for the State's Attorney's Office. That's something else you've just said, so please don't fabricate my words. Secondly, why I applied for the floor is also because I would like to say that when we consider the Criminal Procedure Act, in the National Assembly, now only on the Committee, there was no pressure on us Members, at least not on me, by the Minister. I have found that both prosecutors and investigative authorities need tools in the preliminary procedure, and they also need such a procedure, so that they can be effective, because we and our citizens expect them to do so and demand it. Therefore, I think it is right that we adopt this law. Today, the distinguished Secretary of State explained a little earlier what the situation was like, how this process was conducted, and we also had a public presentation of our opinions. I also really expect that in the autumn we will be able to make efforts to clear things up, to exchange opinions, to find out what is right and what is wrong, and finally to adopt the law. I hope that at that time there will not be just two votes in favour of the law, as was the last time we voted on whether to close the procedure before the holidays or move it to the fall time. I'm not about stalling things, and I'm not about speeding things up, I'm about to make things clear. We could take the time to talk and adopt this law as soon as possible. As I said, the law provides tools for authorities from which we demand and expect effective solutions and prosecution and conviction of those who have also made a bank hole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u165	Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like to tell the Secretary of State that from us, from New Slovenia you will not or very rarely will hear that nothing has been done. No one said that between us. But it is true that I illustratively said that the results were on the palm and the palm was empty. Well, if I'm more accurate, there's nothing on the palm of my hand, or more accurately, you can't see it with a free eye or a simple eye, like the simple people, the taxpayers. That's what this is about. But I've welcomed all your efforts, and I can say that again. Again, I repeat that we and the taxpayers and our simple people, who are more than 2 million, are interested in results. And what you promised in a coalition agreement that is not a treaty reminds us of some self-government agreements. But you promised people. The end of the term of office is now approaching and accounts need to be laid down. The bills should be put on the table, the results should be put on the table. When we talk about the rule of law in general, we talk first about the most important fact, that is trust. Members of the coalition have also correctly identified, for example, Comrade Ferlug, who is more concerned that the confidence of our citizens in the rule of law is at a low level. Maybe a record low level. When I read daily newspapers and when a doctor of legal science declares, I quote, “it works more and more as if people were her enemies”, at the end of the quote, there is probably a bit of truth here. And I'm very worried about that. As an opposition Member, I don't hold back from making such a statement to the Doctor of Legal Sciences, but it worries me. Will we be able to get together, get together, and do something to raise our trust in the rule of law? At least for a nance. Colleague Iva Dimic spoke of $50 to 75 billion now being transferred to a tax haven or anywhere else during the time of the independent state. I have twice given a parliamentary initiative, perhaps once an initiative, once a question, to the government. Dr. Miro Cerar predicted a fight against those who do it, pumping money into tax havens. I also understood that he had announced at the beginning of his mandate the fight against bank hole drills, since, last but not least, she is a law professor. That is why I have given the Government the initiative to do something, however, because the government has the absolute executive power to start something, so at least some of this money will come back. It is true that the former vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia said that the number 75 billion is excessive. I don't know how much, but he talked about it here in Slovenia, Mr James Henry, who is certainly the most important name in the area of tax evasion and exhaustion, to use the domestic term, money in bank oasis. And I'm surprised that German Chancellor Angela Merkel had a good success in 2008, but Mr Cerar doesn't ask, and he says, "Dear Angela, let me tell you how you did it in 2008 to get so much money into the state budget when you threatened and showed to all the citizens and said, look, here's the memory medium and here I have records of all those who cheated this country and drained the money into tax havens to avoid taxes in Germany." Could we not use this mechanism as well? I believe and know that all procedures, principles cannot be easily mirrored, transferred to our country, but perhaps Dr Cerar would learn something from Chancellor Merkel in this regard. If we got, look, maybe just as much money as the state budget on an annual basis, or just as much money as all of us taxpayers threw in a bank hole, it would be fantastic for this country in a developmental sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u167	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Just a few comments. There was no pressure on Mrs. Popot, I believe a hundred percent. Because they don't have to. You know, it's a joke, because everything that comes from the left, it immediately accepts it on the agenda. So I believe you. Look, Secretary of State, you said earlier that I said that some experts had told me. That's not true. That's not what I said. I said that three professors of three law schools, which are written by Zlatko Dežman, who I don't know, Ange Erbežnik, who I know, and Primož Gorkič, who I don't even know are three professors of three law schools who are against, that's what I said, so they're not some experts, but you know that because you were there. That's what I said. That's one. Second. Look, you're talking about this, Austria, Australia, but I don't know what, and disclosure. You're saying there's going to be commissions that expose the background. I'm the one who's in the back. I'm the one who cares. I'm the one who's in jail. And it would be better if those 69, two years or a year and a half later, as I said before, we both meet and see that they're in prison, then that's just fine, and I'm not interested in these system searches and I'm not interested in the background. You know, because if the system investigations show what the background is, Ma, leave it alone. Well, if it says he couldn't explain it, three picks, then we've already put the drill through, and we know what it looks like. It's not about someone studying the background, it's about the institutions of this country, the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, reacting to people -- we're talking about banking crime today -- and that's it. This must be our common goal, not some commission there at the government. It's nothing. This is going to be a bit of a bad thing. The institutes have to work. Would we have an Anget committee today, and I don't know what else to do, so the Logar Commission, and I don't know what else to do if the institutes were doing? If the institutes react when the chief of the prosecution, the chief of police from my hands personally received a list of three billion, but I don't know what because the Bank of Slovenia document was confidential if they started working at the time and if in 2014, 2015, 2016, I don't know when, most bankers were in prison, then we don't need the Logar Commission at all, it's a system. But since the institutes don't work, we have a problem, and that's why we have a problem. So much for a little while.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u169	Dr. Ange Logar, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you, Chairman. I fully agree with my forerunner, Mr Gorenak. My commission is a pure system anomaly. In a normal system where institutions operate, such activities would not be needed. It is commendable that the Secretary of State once, in contrast to other debates, took part in today's debate and responded favourably to the arguments put forward today. But look, this same secretary of state sat two years ago on the Justice Committee when one of the district judges of the Ljubljana Court repeatedly refused to seize documents by banks, so that the investigative commission should not seize documents because it is against the Constitution. Mr Stare was signed and represented the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, which gave it right to the judge, so that the Commission of Inquiry, by demanding the seizure of bank documents that have made us a five-billion-dollar hole, would violate the human rights of credit cards, if I make it very simple. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had a different opinion and only the common sense of Members, in this case also of coalitions, we can thank you for sending a different opinion to the Constitutional Court, which then also prevailed in the argument of the Constitutional Court. Since then, the Commission of Inquiry has received these documents. If the Secretary of State, Mr Stare, from the Ministry of Justice, claims that they have done everything in their power and that they are doing a great deal, let me be in doubt. Allow me. Mrs Popot said why they were so successful in Iceland. Yeah, well, that's where they were successful because people went to the streets. Do you imagine this argument by the ruling coalition? So you have to get people to the streets and markets if you want things to change in the country. Is that true? Are not the institutions of the rule of law that are paid for this? And if this duel is now turned into a Slovenian system, because people, unless it is necessary to protest against one political party, are not in principle overly excited to go to markets and streets, is the only forum where this public expression of desire for change can be communicated, the National Assembly. And apparently the only ones who can do that are the opposition parties. So it is their job to propose proposals with which the coalition disagrees. And he's offering them so much time to talk about it in the public sphere. If this is not discussed in the public sphere, there is no need for the Minister to be held accountable. But ministers love a beautiful image in public. And when public opinion claims that something needs to be done in this regard and is right, then the minister responds. But look, in this case, the minister himself said that in Slovenia we would obviously not be able to deal with banking crime unless we set up a specialised court. All the votes were cast at the investigative commission and without a vote against it was confirmed in the National Assembly. This report, with these conclusions, also addressed the Government. One of the decisions relating to another matter to the Act on Measures for the Stability of Banks, Article 33, has already been implemented, Mr Stare. The Ministry of Finance has already prepared an authentic explanation of 33. Articles. In the National Assembly, we were happy to confirm this unanimously. But obviously things aren't going that fast. On one occasion, your minister, when it comes to a single case, says that if the matter is out of date, the heads will fly. Now we have one case in the case of a special person who obviously has universal judicial immunity, the Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic, the judge decides otherwise than judicial practice, and thus threatens, these are not my words, said the Attorney General, threatening 60 to 80% of the cases. Is that what you imagine? With the conviction of bank crime almost inconsequential, the state prosecutor says that 60 to 80 cases will fall if it executes a verdict, a decision made by the former wife of the justice minister. And yet he didn't predict a head drop. I don't have any more time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u171	Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor. Mrs Porotat, I'm sorry, it's been a long time, and you don't have a chance to replicate, so I give my word to Mr Staret.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be very brief because I am sure that there will be plenty of opportunities for such a debate at the next point. I would say, however, that as a representative of the Government in the National Assembly, I represent the opinions of the Government, not my own personal opinion. Your implementation of the government's opinion on a certain measure in a particular procedure is not my opinion, but is the opinion of the Government. That's one message. However, the second message is that I am afraid, and in my view as a citizen and at this point an official is precisely such an approach in the debate as to why many things have not happened in the past or that they are substantially too slow. They're essentially changing thesis, they're talking about people, about individuals who did what they did, and everything that's been done in the last two, three years, and what you're seeing now, you have hearings from these representatives of the administrations, the supervisory, the banks, we've given us through to a smaller extent, but from the same banks in 2011, 2012, so we've also given that report. And that we see an opportunity to light things up and create a substrate, that also criminal procedures that are one way or another, we know, an extreme asset, and that the criminal procedure will not solve the bank holes, what you are creating with some family or expectation with such debates, is an ultimima raceio, but a tool, also a systemic investigation that has been tested in traditional democratic countries. I'll use the illustration again, if you give someone the microscope they first see, they won't do anything about it. But someone who knows what he's doing will know how to use him, and he'll come to some kind of knowledge. And that's what the Systemic Investigations Act is about. This law has demonstrated in an experimental way how risks can be identified in the system, organisation, operation of stakeholders, without identifying liability. And then, in a democratic country where Mrs Popotat is right, four elements have contributed to such an efficient system in Iceland. The first and the key element was that it was a small community and that they were bitter, so the pressure on the public, the fair part of the public, was so immeasurable that that policy could not be at a distance and act as if it were not. And the laws were passed within one month, for two months, so the authorities could work. This is the story. We're all what you've found now, it's happened, you know, when. Many people knew, and Mr Gorenak also said that there was already a report in 2012 and there were no complaints with known perpetrators in 2013, 2014. Let's ask ourselves why not. In the last two or three years, there have been 200 suspects, 90 defendants, 36 defendants. In two years. And that's the comparison I used to say. There they needed seven, and we, from what we actively and seriously deal with it, have made great progress in two years, which is not what it could be. And that's what this is all about. I therefore look forward to the debate at the next item, because I want us to be very specific. We're responsible here for this country, the taxpayers, not that we're here to renegotiate Klemenčič, Stare, Logar. Let's say what someone can do to help us do this, and then, like you said, we'll draw the line and see who did something. I can, given that I have practically worked for 25 years in law enforcement and detection agencies, but this is a subjective element, my judgment, but from this environment, when I was actually professionally qualified to do so, I can say that this is my view, indeed, that it is subjective that in these three years in the field of law enforcement legislation, personnel, finance has not been done in ten years. This is what politics, government and parliament are supposed to do, because the police, the prosecution and the judiciary always communicate the needs. Sometimes too much, but basically where the problems are, it's known and it's going to be. How actively effective they are taken seriously by the second and third branches of power or the first, which is the question. Time will tell you everything. I am really interested in how it is possible that from 2004 to 2014, none of what you now expect to be done in one year has been done to the extent that at least any convict of this banking crime. That's what I could ask you because you've been in this mile for a long time. So I ask for a proper debate, and especially for a substantive focus on problems and solutions, not on persons. Besides, I am not an advocate of Mr Klemenčič, but I respect him very much because I know him very well. That parable of yours, Mr. Ambassador, when you said that I was afraid of what I was going to say tomorrow. You obviously don't know Mr. Klemenčič. You may be thinking by personal equation if you allow this option. And that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State. Time's up. Thank you. I conclude the general debate on the proposals for conclusions. That the proposals for legislation are suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, tomorrow in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommends in relation to the state of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 19 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In addressing this item on the agenda of the Member and the Member and other speakers, I would like to point out that the draft recommendations set out specific cases relating to minors or other persons who are not public persons, so please do not raise questions about personal data or other information protected under the law in the introductory presentations, presentations of the views of the groups or in your deliberations. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we are also, as a state body, liable for damages which could result from our unlawful conduct. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Justice Committee, Mrs Ivi Dimic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u174	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! At its 40th meeting, on 28 June 2017, the Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a recommendation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the situation of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank, and was partially published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 24 May 2017 and of 20 June 2017, and the Members received it fully in the protected box in the UDIS system. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. On behalf of the applicant, a Member of the Commission, Dr Vinko Gorenak, provided an additional explanation. In his opening remarks, he highlighted the main points of the proposal, in particular the controversial conduct of the members of the former Commission Senate to prevent corruption. In doing so, he stated in the proposal the concrete contentious conduct of that Commission and drew attention to the highly arbitrary and political decision-making of the then Chamber of the Commission. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Darko Stare, presented the Government's written opinion, stressing that the Government did not define specific cases and cases in which proceedings before the courts or other bodies have not yet been concluded, pointing out that further analysis of the legal arrangements in the area of corruption and criminal offences is not necessary and that the proposal for a new law governing this area will soon be forwarded to the National Assembly, with regard to the preparation of novelties for the more effective and speedy functioning of competent authorities in the case of corruption offences, pointed out that the legislation in this area has been adequately revised or that the legislative procedure is still in progress. Representative of the Legislature of Mag. Sonja Bien Karlovšek presented their written legal opinion and stated that the content of the recommendation should be assessed in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative technical point of view. In doing so, she drew attention to the deviation of the time limit for preparing an analysis of the situation from the legal nature of the recommendation as an act of the National Assembly, since the recommendation, depending on its nature and content, cannot create a binding basis for the Government's specific conduct. The proposed amendment removes the inadequacy. The President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption did not define specific cases in his introductory address, but stressed the importance of combating corruption and the need for more appropriate legislation in this area. In the debate, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliament reiterated cases of disputed arbitration and political conduct by the former Commission's anti-corruption Senate and, inter alia, asked the current President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption whether the previous Senate had filed a criminal complaint in the event of irregularities found in the New Ljubljana Bank in connection with the billions of money laundering. The President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption replied to that question that such criminal charges in the Commission's anti-corruption archives were not to be traced. The Committee on Justice, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted, by 8 votes to 3, with the following decision: Proposal for a Recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the situation of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u175	I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Vinko Gorenak, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I mean, there's something really weird going on lately. I wear a lot of materials on this stage, usually not. Vice-President, at the outset, you pointed out the confidentiality of the data that we must respect the law and so on. I'll follow your instructions 100%.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u178	The president of the National Assembly has blackened parts of the text, which are, in fact, material. He took the marker and then you get this out. I don't know if the camera can see that. You get out one piece of text, what's blacked out with a flomaster, and I'm not allowed to say. And I will stick to that, because the law is the law, the President of the National Assembly is just the President of the National Assembly, and we must respect that. When we talk about corruption and when we talk about corruption and criminal corruption, it is very simple for a simple person. It's a blue envelope with money in it. Yeah, what the hell! This is a simple human perception that does not distinguish between the crimes of corruption and corruption under the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act. On the one hand, we have the Penal Code, which defines the crimes of corruption and explicitly lists them, and on the other hand, we have some definition that I will read, and this definition is much, much broader than the definition of crimes of corruption. And people, like we said, as soon as you mention it, it's a blue envelope, and there's money in it — yeah, what else?Oh, my God! In 2012, experts wrote down the definition of corruption, corruption and said that it was any violation of the duty of officials and responsible persons in the public and private sectors, as well as the conduct of persons who are instigators of the infringement or of persons who may benefit from the infringement because of their immediate or indirect promise, offered or requested, accepted or expected benefits to themselves and to anyone else. Do you understand? Well, ask yourself if you've ever been in this situation. So you've acted corruptly if you've ever been in a situation like this. On the other hand, we also have a famous definition that I may say later, because I have limited time adopted by Mr Klemenčič, which speaks of institutional and systemic corruption. I'll read it later or say it. But the punishments of corruption are something else. Something completely different. These are: the act of bribery, the taking of bribes, the giving of gifts for illegal mediation, the taking of benefits for illegal mediation, the unlawful giving of gifts, the illegal receiving of gifts, the violation of free taxation of voters, the taking of bribes in elections. So these are all crimes of corruption. If we look ahead, we have to say the following. Countries have different arrangements in this area, in particular the regime known to us as the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption. You have three kinds of countries in Europe. The first is those who have nothing. No committees, nothing. They have the police, they have the prosecution, they have the judiciary. These are, say, Denmark, Sweden. The level of corruption is as low as you know in those scales. Then we have countries where they have separate advisory bodies, I stress, advisory bodies in the field of corruption. These are Andorra, Armenia, Georgia, Germany. Then you have countries that have advisory bodies in the judiciary or the interior ministry. These are Austria, Belgium, Estonia, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Romania, Switzerland, the United Kingdom. As a rule, these countries are better placed on all scales of corruption than Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia is on the credit of a group of police officers who, after 2000, did not occupy the jobs they imagined they would, but started working in this area and transferred some of the models that we have today to Slovenia, and this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Is that why we look like someone today? Albania, Croatia, Latvia, Macedonia. Here today we are, because we have an independent body, i.e. the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which since 2011 also has executive powers. They used to be toothless tigers, now they even have executive powers. At least for my case I can say that last year I received a warning, a warning or something like that, last year, I say, this is 2016, that my forecast of my assets does not match the forecast of reality for 2012. That's what I got in 2016. What was the problem? They told me I didn't have the property I reported. Actually, I reported that I had a car. And they found out I didn't have it. Yeah, of course I don't, because he's registered to his wife. Well, it's an interesting thing to do in the Commission to prevent corruption. So the situation is absurd. On the one hand, we have countries that have nothing, no anti-corruption committees and are the best in the field of corruption. These are the Scandinavian countries of Sweden, Denmark. On the other hand, we have countries in the Balkans and Slovenia, which have terrible commissions to prevent corruption, but have the most corruption. That's bullshit. So there's nothing going on. Okay, okay. We have further mentioned in our request some examples of how the Commission has acted politically to prevent corruption in the past. This is a commission for political discrimination, at least in the past. Now it's a little different with Stephen, but you're going to blow this up in September anyway. Look, the Anti-Corruption Commission has in the past dealt with the employment of the children of some of our Members. You know what the problem was. They were employed in a company that had nothing to do with a state that was not at all state-owned. The magazines were full of everything. Well, now I'm going where I have these black stains and I'm just reading the part, Mr Vice President, that I won't break a law that isn't blacked out where there's no black stain. And we write: "The KPK did not recognize the corrupt behaviour of Mr Zoran Jankovic or the former President of the Republic of Dr. Türk at..." It's a theme. And I can't say any more because there's a black spot here. That's why I'm going to help myself with a newspaper article. But reading the paper is allowed, isn't it? Thank you very much. Look, it says 17. 4. 2011 Aleksander Lukić in Slovenian News: »The daughter of the President of the Republic of Danil Türk got a job with Zoran Jankovic. According to the replies from the Ljubljana Castle, not because of the proximity of the father and the mayor, because they say Helena Türk was selected among 228 candidates." He also hired the Ljubljana Castle and strengthened himself with the daughter of the former LDS Member – you will not believe – Kavtičnik and hired Mojca Kavtičnik Ocvirk. She was the best among the 15 candidates. Well, you see, this was of no interest to the KPK, but they were interested in the children of SDS Members. Come in. Now I've got another problem. “The KPK did not recognize the corrupt behaviour of Zoran Jankovic or former President of the Supreme Court Branko Masleš in his employment... ” It's a theme. I can't tell anyone. That's why I'm helping out with the paper. “Yesterday, Marko Masles, son of the President of the Supreme Court, Branko Masleš, was employed in the county court for a certain period of time. Since there are currently 512 university-graduated lawyers and 17 graduate lawyers in the employment search logs, and the waiting period reported at the employment office has been more than seven months, we were wondering why this has happened.” Well, he got the job. Another article by P.J., Slovenian News, 21. 8. 2013 “The son of the President of the Supreme Court Branko Masles became the leader of the Sports House, which belongs within the framework of the Public Institute of Sport Ljubljana.” According to the portal, the service was provided by Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic to Sam Masleša. Nor was the Commission interested in preventing corruption, but it was interested in the children of our Members. That was interesting. Let's move on. This one's pretty bad. “ KPK did not recognize corruption in the case... ” All black ahead. Okay. Why Do You Want to Be My Friend? 9. 2016, speaking of Ana Kučan, daughter of former president of the state of Milan Kučan. It's interesting that I have a black Milan Kučan, but I don't, I'm sorry, but I don't have Daniel Turk as my former president. I don't know, but Mr. Milan is a House deity. Aren't you both the former presidents of the Republic? That's what I'm really interested in. This article describes the kind of business that this lady has done. This was not of interest to the Commission. Here is another case where the KPK also saw no conflict in the employment, black stain, in the cabinet of Alenka Bratušek. Well, that's something I can say. Now I have Meto Roglich in the Journal. This is a credible newspaper, and I believe you believe it. And this article discusses how the then cabinet of the Prime Minister has adapted the call and conditions for employment to make Mr Pavlic the Chief of Staff and the Secretary of State. This was not of interest to the Commission. Look, that's why I'm arguing that we have one big problem. This is a problem that the anti-corruption commission has acted in such a way that it is actually a discrediting commission. Look, 348 thousand 500 euros. Now I can say the name because the President of the National Assembly has allowed it, I have no black stain, he assigned Stanko Stepišnik. Do you remember? Minister of Economy for his own company. No, that's not disputed. He went out when they made decisions, and he had nothing to do with making decisions. But they chose to obey him. You're funny! That's ridiculous! If it were not for what I said earlier, this means that the Commission is being discredited. Come in. KPK studied the airline tickets of Minister Virant for a year and some years. Can you imagine? You go to the portal and you see how much it costs and how much it gave. Is there anything else you need to study? Do you need a trainee for five minutes? No, no, no. He needs less. Okay, after one year, the Commission found that it was Ljubljana Airport or Adria Airways, not him. She sold him tickets too cheap, and that's why it's Adria's fault, and he's got nothing to do with it. Look at this nonsense again. I'm still going to talk because I only have 15 minutes, so I'm going to tell most of the rest from the bench. Thank you very much, Mr President, for understanding that I read from the newspaper and that I respected the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Dr. Gorenak. In order to introduce my position on the proposal of the working body, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its regular meeting on 21 June, the Government adopted an opinion on some of the views expressed in the explanation of the proposal for a recommendation. I'll be shorter. With regard to point 1 of the recommendation, the Government proposes that the analysis of the legal regime in the area of corruption and criminal offences should not be adopted to Members and Members because, in this particular opinion and the GRECO analyses presented in the past, all together has resulted in the adopted laws, the Penal Code-C Novel, the law on integrity for the issue of corruption, which is already harmonised inter-sectorally and professionally and is before the adoption of the Government, and the law on criminal procedure already in the parliamentary legislative procedure. With regard to point 2 of the Recommendation, which imposes amendments to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, the same applies. The proposal for a novel is professional and inter-resortary in the completed procedure and is before the decision is taken in the Government. With regard to point 1 of the Recommendation and point 3 of the Recommendation, which imposes on Members and Members the preparation of novelties for the more efficient and speedy functioning of the competent authorities of detection and prosecution in the case of corruption offences, the Government, in its opinion, proposes that they should not be accepted because it considers that they are unnecessary because two KZ-1 novelties have already been adopted in the last year in essence in the National Assembly and contribute significantly to this objective, the ambitions which these recommendations have in particular in this area in the field of economic and corruption. However, as regards procedural provisions that will allow for more efficient and faster procedures, the proposal for a law on criminal procedure is also essentially already in the parliamentary procedure. For these reasons, the Government does not support the proposed recommendations and proposes not to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u181	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who accompany this meeting. We have heard from the introductory words that the opposition is proposing recommendations to regulate the situation in the area of corruption, which is pervasive, and the government is saying that it is already preparing this. Analysis that there are already changes to the laws that are being prepared. I don't know why the recommendations have to be rejected, if everything is being prepared, if everything works out, then the government could brag about everything she's done. But it doesn't look like that. What kind of system do we need and what concept do we need? When we entered the European Union, one of the requirements was to have a preventive anti-corruption body. This is also the name of a commission that has changed a little. The concept was advised by the Danish and follows this Scandinavian model to minimise involvement in the operation and in repressive institutions. However, the concept began to change under the pretext that such an institution needed teeth. And this clearly started problems: overstatement of powers, constitutional complaints and the like. So we've missed the way of the concept. I wonder what our condition is now? I think things have gotten a lot worse. If we evaluate micro, medium and macro levels, we see that on a micro level, legislation works as well as banking crime, people have to pay taxes, they are quickly punished, and everything works in criminal proceedings. On the middle level, things are getting a little complicated. Corruption is one of those classic forms and also manifests itself in other acts. In particular, Denmark is considered to know every corruption on property, so corruption is concealed in property crimes and is known in people who cannot explain where their assets come from. Here is the emphasis on the Ministry of Finance and the Office for the Prevention of Money, which in certain cases does not carry out its activities. Otherwise, it works well, but in exceptional cases, there is oversight. Either it's pressure or something, and that's what we need to find out. Then it's a macro level. On the macro level, there is corruption in completely different forms, employment in relationships and acquaintances, on the political line and otherwise. Here we have investigative journalism, and here we have the Commission to prevent corruption if it has a preventive role, but not as it has changed over the years under the guidance of some. This is the concept of the future – approaching Scandinavian countries. Of course, for transit countries such as Slovenia, where corruption is more, we need a transitional body, and gradually those responsible take over the functions. Another function has been played by the Commission to prevent corruption, to see whether these authorities operate or are themselves corrupt and that employees who want to act as they need to complain to the Anti-Corruption Commission, to draw attention to errors under the system of so-called whistleblowers, Whistleblower. These people need to be protected. As we see when dominoes begin to fall, then things are revealed, what happened in the case of our commission to investigate the bank hole, when we first received documents from the New Ljubljana Bank in the history of Slovenia under difficult circumstances, but the documents are here and things are slowly being revealed. That is why we need the concept of prevention in the field of corruption, which shows that it will not be under this government because it does not want to accept those recommendations that are not some kind of entertainment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u183	Mr Dusan Radič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go, Mr. Radich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you. Good-bye, everybody! Applicants estimate that, as in most foreign countries in Slovenia, it would not be necessary to establish an independent body, a commission to prevent corruption, but that it could be a self-sustaining and autonomous preventive service within the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior. In doing so, the applicants assess that some of the Commission's actions to prevent corruption due to inadequate regulation of the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act are often biased and political. They believe that changes to laws are needed in the area under consideration. At the 40th meeting of the Committee on Justice, we voted that this proposal is inappropriate for further consideration. Let me explain a little bit why we decided to do so. In their explanation for the proposal, the proponents note that the definition of corruption under the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act is broader than the definition of so-called corruption offences under the Penal Code. This is because the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption regulates the provision or enhancement of integrity and transparency and the prevention of corruption in the broadest sense. However, the Penal Code lays down criminal offences in accordance with the principle of legality in criminal law and the principle of ultimim ratio. However, in the Group of Members, we are aware of the need for certain improvements to the existing regulatory arrangements in this area, so we are directing our action so that the possibilities for effective work in this important area are even better. However, we cannot agree with the applicants at work that such a body could be a self-sustaining and autonomous preventive service within the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior. Such a body does not belong to the Ministry of Justice which is responsible for the preparation of anti-corruption rules and for the prosecution and prosecution of offences in the field under consideration. The responsibility of the police, which is already a body within the Ministry of the Interior, is in particular the detection of crimes and their perpetrators. In the SMC Group, we stress that several changes have already been adopted in the National Assembly, which have a significant impact on the more efficient and faster functioning of competent authorities in the case of corruption offences, and far from being completed by preparing such and similar changes. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party estimate that the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the situation of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is inappropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u185	Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, Madam Secretary of State! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we made a recommendation to the National Assembly on the situation of corruption. We estimate that corruption in Slovenia is one of the main obstacles to development. It is true, however, that it preserves certain elites, to whom virtually everything is permitted. This creates an unfair society that does not operate on the principle of justice, ethics and the rule of law. Of course, when we talk about corruption, it is imperative to distinguish between corruption and corruption. The concepts are precisely defined in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and the Penal Code. Mr Gorenak, on behalf of the proposaler, had already shown very vividly what the difference between the two concepts was, so let me just say that corruption under the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption was significantly more broadly defined and covered a broader range of conduct than the criminal acts of corruption defined in the Criminal Procedure Act. These are therefore more precisely defined and covered in eight crimes. These include, for example, giving and taking bribes or accepting bribes in elections or taking advantage of illegal mediation. If we look at corruption a little bit wider, we can see that no country is immune to this phenomenon and some are more successful at resisting it than others. In particular, those countries that have a highly developed democracy and a better functioning system of law enforcement and judicial authorities have the lowest level of corruption and are economically stronger and more successful. While countries with a young democracy that did not, for example, do lustrations in the social system, when they moved from the totalitarian system to democracy, to which Slovenia in particular belongs, because other Eastern European countries have faced lustration receptions in one way or another. Well, these countries, Slovenia says, are dealing with a significantly higher level of corruption and with this poor economic situation. I have pointed out many times in the National Assembly, both at the home labour force and at the National Assembly meeting, that lustration in the Slovenian social policy area was necessary when the time was necessary, as it was a major catastrosis effect for the nation, on the basis of which the citizen could then approach in principle and open to the processes of democratisation, and an element of institutional impact, which would give the whole society that was cleansed through it, that there could not be persons in the highest positions in the previous non-democratic system who held the highest positions and gravely violated human rights. Since we have not replaced the old structures with fresh, open, educated, capable people whose world view is based on the European system of values and the rule of law, the informal networks operating within the democratic system have been able to continue to this day. They work exclusively for narrow stakeholders and thus harm all those who do their work honestly and responsibly. In Slovenia, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have the biggest problem with corruption in three areas: the banking system, the health system and the justice system. In the case of the banking system, we are talking about banking crime of a huge scale, including corruption and corruption. It is clear that credits were granted over internal rules and policies, which corresponds to the definition of corruption, but more on this. In the area of health, corruption is most evident in overpaid medical devices, all of which is to the detriment of the patient or patient, in the use of public funds, in copyright fees and in other controversial practices, for which virtually no one is responsible. We are also aware of the lack of accountability in the area of justice. Here we face the phenomenon of first and second-classness, where, in some cases, cases are carried out by a rapid procedure, while in other cases, they are stuck in the trial of judges and prosecutors in order to be definitively obsolete. We are facing politically-mounted processes and are facing abuses of justice for political purposes. These findings, which I have referred to so far, are also attached by the Commission to prevent corruption under the leadership of Mr Štefanec, which in its 2016 assessment of the situation of corruption draws attention to a number of corruption risks, which we point out over and over again in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In addition to corruption in health and the banking system, the Commission notes the unethical conduct of this government in the field of human resources. Let me just remind you of the personnel actions of the government of Mir Cerar, which are controversial. Above all, they are not in line with the pre-election promises of independent experts. Let me mention the case of Mark Jazbec's recruitment at the head of SDH. Although he was one of the ones responsible for the bank hole, the Mira Cerar government still placed him at the head of SDH. Or the maintenance of certain ties that have managed irresponsiblely and harmfully and still manage state property, which may make it possible to witness the third rehabilitation of state banks, which we will again pay taxpayers. Here I would also like to remind you of the controversial employment of Roc Praprotnik on the New Ljubljana Bank. Certainly this is a matter of systemic corruption, as the President of the New Ljubljana Bank, Mr Janko Medja, offered Mr Praprotnik his job before the call was made, at a time when around 700 people were fired from the bank, respected colleagues and colleagues, among whom no one was apparently fit to be the head of the Centre for Business Compliance as well as Mr Praprotnik alone, who, by the way, had never before and never worked in the banking system, unlike those 700 who were fired. The fact that this is systemic corruption also confirms the fact that the Prosecutor and Klemenčič, together with Klemenčič, should first investigate the issue of lending and the bank hole and then suddenly get a job in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. It is clear to anyone who can count to 5 that this was the reward of not investigating the bank hole and not investigating the loans at issue. If a colleague of Logar, who runs an investigation committee in the National Assembly on Banking Crime, were to investigate banking crime as well as the Klemenčič-Proporteur link, we would certainly not be talking today in the National Assembly about criminal acts in the banking system, but Mr Logar would certainly have a well-paid job either at home or abroad. However, because he works qualitatively on an investigative committee, he was deprived of diplomatic status for the Erjavčev Ministry Award. That's what happens when you investigate too intensely and effectively banking crime. Even if we look at the Commission to prevent corruption at the time it was led by Drago Kos and Goran Klemenčič, it is clear that this Commission has been misused for political purposes. I think that's already quite clear today. We would do well to see what is happening under the new direction and how it may work. We can certainly define this as political corruption, which we see well in the case of the discovery of a billion-dollar money laundering affair for the financing of terrorism, where Mr Klemenčič, although he knew this was happening, and although he was informed in detail, did not do so. Mr Goran Klemenčič, now Minister of Justice, had at that time the only authority or task that he had, by the way, clearly performed with distinction, since he was then rewarded with the position of Minister of Justice, although he should never have occupied this position, but his key and sole task, which he had to carry out, was the overthrow of Janez Janša as Prime Minister of the Government for the benefits of a narrow group of people, or elites, who, despite the controversial conduct, even criminal conduct, were still untouchable. The Commission also draws attention to a number of corruption risks in the event of the construction of a second track, where we will obviously overpay its construction, but the Prime Minister of the Government says that the opposition in this case is precipitating, although we only warn that the project is too expensive and that it can be built at a lower price, as the professional public also notes. Certainly, it is a problem when we talk about corruption, including so-called systemic corruption, which is particularly evident in public procurement, when the ruling and economic elite, with the help of the administrative apparatus, manages public procurement and practically leaves no one to cooperate. According to Transparency International, Slovenia ranked 31st among 175 countries in 2016 at the perceived level of corruption. And even though Slovenia is ranked somewhere between 30th and 45th, which can be explained, for the first time, by poor governance with the country, secondly, by the non-transparent adoption of legislation, thirdly, by the so-called humanitarian lobbying, which is very well controlled by Mr. Zemlarič, and because of the unacceptable, this is the fourth time that conduct within the judicial system. Here I would like to mention the most up-to-date case where the delay may lead to the removal of all burdensome and crucial evidence against Zoran Jankovic. That this is happening in a person who is as exposed as the policy of Zoran Jankovic, but cannot be a coincidence. Mr Gorenak, on behalf of the proposer, initially focused on some individual cases also in the context of the Commission's controversial actions to prevent corruption at a time when Drago Kos and Goran Klemenčič led it, so allow me to say something about corruption in the banking system. I quote: “The fact is that suspected bankers with prosecutors are moved with the assistance of several lawyers and are equipped with even seven expert opinions. Therefore, it is not necessary for those who have dug a bank hole to be judged for their conduct at any time.” End of quote. Now I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues if anyone might know who is the author of this statement. This was said by Mr Darko Majhenič, Director of the National Investigation Office, i.e. the Director of the elite, as was sometimes said, the most qualified criminal groups for the prosecution of the most difficult forms of economic crime. What does Mr. Majhenič say about this message? A key message to subordinate criminals in this case is that it doesn't matter if they fail. This statement tells the judiciary that even criminals do not expect anyone to be convicted. However, the Director of the National Investigation Office makes it clear that they should simply arm themselves with lawyers and that, if possible, they should provide as many expert opinions as possible, but they are very likely not to be convicted. There is, of course, a question for the Minister of the Interior, how such a person can still be the Director of the National Investigation Office. With such a head of the National Bureau of Investigation, it is not surprising that many witnesses who witnessed before the commission of inquiry led by Dr. Logar said that criminals had never interviewed them before, let alone investigated them. But this is not so strange after all, as Minister Györkös also says that, I quote, “we may be too busy dealing with the situation behind us”. And that's what she said about corruption. That is what the Minister of the Interior said on the Committee on Justice. The fact that all this is possible five years after the biggest bank hole in the history of Slovenia is certainly not the case, but it probably has a background in those parallel structures that I spoke about earlier. However, let us look at some key data on banking crime. By the end of 2016, the police had detected 228 suspected bank crime offences. The damage caused by this is estimated to amount to around €800 million in these cases. However, in only 96 cases, the police have referred these cases further to a criminal complaint. So far, none of the bankers have been legally convicted of bank crime. Facts that tell us a great deal about how successful we are by persecuting corruption and crime in the banking system. There are a large number of bankers in Iceland because of banking crime, and as we say, there is no legal conviction. But speaking of banking crime, of course I cannot help but mention the case of the advisory agreement concluded between the New Ljubljana Bank and R. U.R., the owner of which is Drago Kos. Under the contract, Draga Kosa should review all of the New Ljubljana Bank's credit maps. Officially, this is the case for forensic investigations into loan contracts, but it was found that Drago Kos has examined only 11 cases, for which, colleagues and colleagues, he received a payment of EUR 898 000. Also, the events surrounding Sava’s holding company, in which Matthew Narat played a decisive role at the time, indicate a linkage or clienteleism. This story also showed a political momentum in the suspension of the then Executive Director of DUTB Torbjörn Münsson, who was operationally led by the then Secretary of State of the Method of Dragon. Here, let me be more specific. Mr Dronja Methods was Director of the Representation of the New Ljubljana Bank in Moscow in 2008-2014. He received this job at a time when no one other than Mr Matthew Narat was a member of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. I hope you won't interrupt me because I'm mentioning names now, but that's all familiar, Mr Vice President. He was also Minister during the government of Dr. Janez Drnovska, Minister during the government of Mag. Alenke Bratušek and Secretary of State then in the government of Dr. Mir Cerar. He served as Secretary of State, as we all know here, until June 2016. His office ended when Dr. Dusan Maramor, Minister of Finance, resigned from his post. Another piece of information here is interesting. This Mr. Dragon Method has a brother. This is Mr Cyril Dragonja, who was the leader of the Factor Bank, when the most controversial loans were granted. Interesting connections, first-class clientele, first-class corruption. Not to say that because of Factor Bank and everything that's been going on around it, of course, a bunch of crimes in banking crime. But some, as I said before, are untouchable. Dronja's methods were operationally led by the removal of the Chairman of the DUB Board of Lars Nyberg and the Chief Executive Director of DUTB Torbjörn Münsson. The main source of the dispute was the holding of Sava, where DUTB, under the leadership of both foreigners, demanded the replacement of the management, or Matthew Narat, because of the unsatisfactory restructuring of the holding company. It ended with the fact that the government of Mira Cerar transferred all claims of the SAVA holding company from DUTB to SDH, thus achieving that the DUB of Sava holding company did not sell, but remained in state ownership and will require the recovery that will be paid by taxpayers again. Then Mr Dragonja is at this time – why is it important that I say this? - Served the untruths. He claimed that he was being chased from a certain office, which later resulted in some kind of retaliation in a police investigation against Ambassador Andrej Širclj, both at his home and at the National Assembly and at the premises of the Slovenian Democratic Party. But what's interesting now? That this same Mr. Dragonja method then became a consultant to the Director of State Company 2TKK, who was supposed to be in charge of preparing everything necessary for the construction of the second track. It is no wonder that we will overpay the matter if we know the work of the said gentleman so far. We can certainly say that certain behaviours, both Dragonje Method and others, have not been named here, because we should not use names to speak, but all those who appear in this thirst in the story of machination around Save Holding and DUTB are consistent with the definition of corrupt behaviour in accordance with the law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the situation in the field of corruption, we therefore recommend: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that within six months the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a thorough analysis of the state of law in the field of corruption and criminal acts and the findings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Second recommendation: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia propose to the legislative process such legal solutions in the area of prevention in relation to corruption, which will be organisational and substantively similar to most European countries. Third recommendation: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia propose appropriate legal solutions in the legislative process, allowing for more effective and faster detection, investigation and prosecution in the case of corruption offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u187	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! Today, we present the views of the Group of Members on the recommendations of the SDS Group, which have already been rejected by the National Assembly's home committee, i.e. the Committee on Justice. There are many reasons why Members and Members have voted that recommendations are not suitable for further consideration. The fact is that this time it is also an attempt at political and personal accounting with the former KPK President, current Minister Klemenčič, and many other politically well-known faces, but above all the reputation of the former anti-corruption commission, which, by the way, enjoyed a great reputation and confidence in the public. In the Desus Group, we will not identify ourselves in specific cases where the applicants consider that they may contain suspicions of corruption, because these are matters that will be decided by courts or procedures by other competent authorities. Therefore, in the Republic of Slovenia we have the authorities and these authorities to come to the bottom in accordance with their competences. Together, the proponents have made three points of view with which they propose to the government to adopt such legal solutions, which will be organisationally and substantively similar to most European countries and will allow more efficient and faster investigations into corruption. At the same time, they want to forget that the National Assembly has already adopted certain appropriate solutions in this mandate. Thus, for example, a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code has been adopted which prescribes, inter alia, a more stringent prison sentence for certain complex corruption actions against the economy and against the official duty, while at the same time a financial penalty has been cumulatively prescribed at the time of imprisonment. Finally, it is also important that a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its this year's May meeting, which also provides more appropriately for certain crimes contained in the chapter against the economy and against official duties, public powers and public resources, which may also be linked to the risks of corruption, is recently adopted. Let me list some of the laws adopted that are the basis for more effective and faster detection, investigation and trial in the case of corruption offences: the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutions. All these laws go in the right direction to more effectively detect corruption. In the Desus Group on this point, we cannot follow the SDS recommendations that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should propose appropriate legal solutions to the legislative process, allowing for more efficient and faster detection, investigation and prosecution in the case of corruption offences, because the Government is already doing so. The reform of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption is also being prepared. According to Justice Minister Goran Klemenčič, this brings some significant changes in the field of limiting corruption, conflicts of interest, lobbying and control over the assets of officials. The novelty is very clear in which cases the Commission must cooperate with law enforcement authorities to prevent corruption. It provides, inter alia, that, in order to prevent corruption, the Commission must, as soon as it is suspected of a criminal offence, withdraw the matter from the person responsible for it and may, on its own, continue to identify systemic risks and make recommendations on how to address them. In the Desus Group, we expect that the novel will really introduce concrete solutions and that it will not just be about personal struggles between the past and current KPK leadership. We all probably agree that every opinion can be given to the functioning of the Commission to prevent corruption and to its former and current President, but we can still wish in the Desus Group that such and similar accounts could be avoided. Respected and respected! In the Desus Group, we do not support SDS recommendations. However, we expect the Minister of Justice to draw up an effective anti-corruption law that will lead to the desired objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u189	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In most cases, corruption, usually linked to economic and financial crime, is linked to the culture of residence, work and management in a society. Corruption is problematic in whatever form it is already occurring, but it is most problematic when it no longer happens to bribe customs for "smuggling" chocolates, but it goes from this stage to the crime phase of white collars into millions of, hundred million stories that have generational consequences for a society. Certain social systems are more susceptible to this, others less. Certain companies have also been able to do so at the level of values, and certain countries and societies will still have to address this problem. The key condition for the presence of organised crime, banking crime and economic crime is, first of all, the silent tolerance of all involved, in particular those who indirectly enable it, while at the same time being linked to the way resources are managed at all. There, because there is nothing to alienate, such processes do not happen. If we look honestly at the mirror of our society, our countries of the Republic of Slovenia, we can see that there are, above all, two pillars of corruption. On the one hand, the silent tolerance manifested through deliberate or unintentional inefficiency of legislation at certain points mainly in the pursuit of the most serious crimes and, on the other hand, intentional or unintended inadequacy, the lack of transparency of governance with more than 12 billion national assets, which is a very good source for maintaining such and other networks that are quite good at changing color, taste and worldwide vision. Therefore, the issue of effective persecution is also linked to the decision on what we will do in these two areas. When we talk about the silent tolerance of legislation, the inefficiency of legislation, we can ask why it has happened that on the Committee of Justice we have withdrawn from the consideration of the law on criminal procedure – only two of us have voted against withdrawal – and who is in favour of continuing the possibility of procedural abuse within the judicial procedure, who benefits from continuing to avoid taking over mail and who benefits more from the difficult prosecution of the prosecutor who wishes to prosecute the worst crimes. I'm asking myself rhetorically. On the other hand, we have also discussed this meeting, and the Slovenian State Holding Act has already been concluded on the Committee, where the Social Democrats have proposed the extension of the supervisory council of this institution, which manages 12 billion state assets, so that control is more democratic, more transparent so that, with the presence of SDH employees, the unions, the ZDUS, the Youth Council of Slovenia, they would prevent negotiations under the table, in order to establish by law that there must be known objectives, conditions that must also be met before the sale. Why? In order not to make it possible in some other centres of power not to appear or under a table through silent tolerance to allow the operation of networks, which we all rightly refer to as corrupt. How many of those present and who are absent in this Chamber today have supported either the law on SDH or the withdrawal of the law on criminal proceedings, you know very well all present. We can therefore, in principle, support and agree with the aim of today's recommendations, that corruption is a problem in the Republic of Slovenia and that we must face it. But we have to deal with this directly and not with the purpose of personally accounting on one side, but with the account of systemic errors that have been introduced into our social order either intentionally or accidentally over the past 25 years. I myself hope that we will find consensus at the point of appropriate amendment and the adoption of a law on criminal procedure to do just that – to prevent the quiet tolerance of persecution and the possibility of avoiding the persecution of those who are the most serious crimes in the field of economic crime and banking crime. Because as long as they know that they will most likely not be subject to sanctions, they will simply continue their corruption and do what they have been doing in this country for the past 20 years, if not more. At the same time, I hope that in one of the future attempts to reform governance and modernise governance in the direction of democracy and transparency in the management of state property, we will also be able to write into the law what we all advocate at the declaration level. Whether the current, previous or first composition of the KPK Senate is responsible for the state of corruption is probably also an irrelevant issue if we do not really want to look in the mirror and address honestly those issues that enable corruption in the core. And once again, it is a silent tolerance, allowing those who prefer to freeze away, rather than prevent, and a point of resource management, because there is no source of corruption itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u191	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u192	Your Honor! In its 2016 annual report, the Anti-Corruption Commission noted in its introduction that it was pleased to note an increase in the number of applications received. She received 77 more than she did last year. Is that really a reason to be happy? Given that the mission and the vision of the Commission are to achieve zero tolerance for corruption at all levels and to restore citizens' confidence in the institutions of the rule of law, that is also the objective of the Government, the Commission's satisfaction is understood in terms of raising citizens' awareness of the application. On the other hand, it is a legitimate concern about the fact that Slovenia was 31 out of 175 countries after the perceived level of corruption in 2016. This means that our country is ineffective with the applicable legal regime in this area. Despite the fact that the Commission is formally independent and independent government authority to prevent corruption in order to prevent corruption. It is interesting, in the society of whose countries we are here: Macedonia, Croatia, Albania and Latvia. These are countries with similar organised commissions such as our KPK and thus have a similar high level of corruption. While the Commission has a wide range of competences to prevent corruption, it is only in investigating the part of acts where corruption is suspected, while it does not have classical investigative and enforcement powers to prosecute corruption crimes. Christian Democrats do not want to dispute the foreign or political functioning of either the previous or the current President's Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, but point out that many of the procedures followed by both Commissions point to its biased and political decision-making. This is also evident from the explanation given by the applicant of the recommendations. In Novi Slovenija, we are still aware that corruption in the country, despite the functioning of this commission, is on the rise and that the functioning of such an authority does not in itself ensure a successful fight against corruption, which controls capital interests through lobbying. We need the efficient and fair work of the judiciary and the detection and prosecution bodies and not the commission with the powers and responsibilities of the current Commission to prevent corruption. The developed democracies, through which we all so like to imitate ourselves, do not know such institutions because they have an effective and fair judicial system and well-functioning detection and prosecution bodies. Unfortunately, our reality shows that political lobbying is not in the interest of a commission or anti-corruption body that has systemic power. We are therefore convinced that systemic corruption and its emerging forms should be criminalised so that such cases do not appear in the future. An individual who assumes a high function must be a person with absolute personality and moral integrity. There's probably no doubt about that. In countries with advanced democracy, this is completely self-evident and, as soon as a suspicion arises, I stress, only suspicion, of certain irregularities, only irregularities, or of the illegality that such an official would have committed before or during the performance of his office, follows immediately a departure from that function. That's not the case with us. In our country, we still have problems taking responsibility of officials, not only objective but also subjective responsibilities. In doing so, we think of all the functions at all levels. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that all Members agree with the above findings, but the coalition at the meeting of the home Justice Committee did not agree with the opposition's recommendation. In Novi Slovenija, we cannot agree with this view.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u193	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. The first one has the word mag. Dušan Verbich. Get ready, mags. Branko Grims and Mr. Joseph Horvat. First, I will give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you very much. That's the way it is. For I have not finished the whole thing before, and therefore, within the time now available to me and in the end, I will be able to repeat a few words to those Members whom I have captured. I didn't catch some of them, Mr. Verbich, but I'm going to read the magnetogram. Finally, I stopped to list cases of how the Anti-Corruption Commission acted arbitrarily and how this is actually a Commission for Disclosure, as I have called it, even though some of you are saying that this is an attempt to discredit Mr Klemenčič. Yeah, prove it to me. I just don't have cases. Mrs Porotat spoke about the fact that this is an accounting with Klemenčič. Mrs Porotat, look, I've counted six, seven eight cases so far, and I'm going to count them even more. And you tell me why it would be an accounting, and prove to me with practical examples, as I prove to you. I'm done with Mr Stepišnik and 348 thousand euros. It's nothing corrupt, so if the minister points this out to his company through a team of people. Is that okay or not? What's up? That was the decision. Of course, I also talked about airline tickets, and now what the Secretary of State is going to hurt, he's already heard, but it's right that he still hears, because he has to realize that he's made a mistake after all. Mrs. Popot, do you copy? [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. Look, in 2012, December, I had an interpolation in this room. At that time, Mrs Porotat voted in favour of my resolution, although it was in the coalition, very interesting. Yeah, the truth hurts if that's true. But look what happened then. The law is clear. The National Assembly, together with the Ministry of the Interior, has 7 days to check the signatures. When these unverified signatures are brought to the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall adopt them, send them to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of the Interior shall examine the matter. When over 2 thousand 500 signatures come, there can be 50,000 or 5,000 or whatever, but when more than 2 thousand 500 signature checks come in, 30 or 40 are taken along, so it's safe that the other signatures don't even check, because the law is so that there must be 2 thousand 500 of those real signatures. Then the Ministry of the Interior informs the National Assembly that they are or that they are not, however you look at the story. And then this referendum procedure in the National Assembly begins when the President of the National Assembly signs the referendum as such. Mr. Stare was the investigator for this case. I'm the answer to the interpretation, probably the first minister, I don't think anyone's done it since the independence, wrote it in time, I don't know if it's been 48 hours. I wrote after my 48 hours, but I sent in three days, I think it was something like that, Mr Tanko also suggests, but in three days, I'm pretty sure I answered the interpolation. Interpellation was on the agenda in December and not January 2013. She was on the agenda right away. (Ah, Mrs. Popotat is leaving.) Well, look, the president of the National Assembly sent it to me, to the interior ministry around the corner, at Beethoven 3 was there around the corner, sending it 40 hours within a 7-day legal deadline. It took 40 hours for signatures to come out of this house for administrative and internal affairs, as we call it. Then I answered within the legal time limit, stressing, within the legal time limit — in 7 days. But look, Mr. Stare found out that I could have answered 16 hours earlier. So you could have answered 16 hours earlier. Do you understand? I could have answered that. But we both did the right thing. Both Mr Virant, President of the National Assembly and myself, because we have processed matters within this 7-day deadline. Do you realize that the anti-corruption commission has accepted the matter as a report, you will not believe it, 15 hours before I stepped in for this speaker. 15 hours before I left for the pay phone, they looked into everything and found out that I could have sent it 16 hours earlier. That's what they wrote. And they also wrote that I must therefore apologize to the Slovenian people. Yes, read it, because it's a public document! Mr. Virant, nothing. Who sent 40 hours to me. An independent report, this is an expert report, and Mrs Porotat now says that we are discrediting Mr Klemenčič. Let me answer this dilemma. How that the Anti-Corruption Commission could finish its work just a few hours before the interpolation, of course, sent newspapers that the newspapers had these things before me. At least the official part of the document. You see, this is discrediting people. And that's unfair, that's unfair, and that's irresponsible. And we don't need that KPK. We need KPCs like other countries have. Mr Radič argued why this does not belong to the Ministry of the Interior, why this does not belong to the Ministry of Justice. There's also a third option that I said earlier about the pay phone. This is an independent body, it can be what it is today, it can be in the same premises, but this body has an advisory role. Advisory role. Like he does in many other countries. Those gifts, the property of the Members, and the wages go on — where? To the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors already agreed in 2007. What they will write some principled opinions if they then write you a "foolish" principled opinion. I can tell you one more as an example. The following happened to us in Šmar near Jelšah many years ago. The mayor decided to buy carnations for March 8th. And he bought ten or some carnations to give every woman in the congregation a necklace. Of course, he ordered the secretary to buy and bring the bracelets. And the procedures have run out. The secretary brought in ten carnations received by municipal officials. But look at the fraction, that's corruption. Why is corruption? Because he owns a florist municipality councilman. You can't do business with him. It is said that this mayor should order one courier, send him to Celje in one flower shop to use another five liters of petrol. Then it wouldn't be corruption. Look, that's the principle of opinion. That's bullshit! This is bullshit, and we don't need that kind of stuff. However, we need one fair direction, as it is called, one fair position from the point of view of preventive counseling. I also have to say the following to the public. Look, I know a man who's been an official for years, and I don't have his permission, and I can't say a name because I respect the law, Mr Vice President. He's been sending the KPK report for years: I don't have any assets. And he really doesn't have one. He doesn't have a car, he doesn't have a bank card, he doesn't have anything. Not even real estate. Yes, of course, because it's all written on the wife, and it's legal. It's legal. If I go to Austria, only there to Fat Berta, they sometimes said, there at Shettil across, the Styers know where it is, 100 meters across the border, open up an account there, and I can get a million if you want, or I get 5 million, maybe Jankovic will offer me something sometime. And that doesn't have to be reported to KPK. KPK won't even know about this. She won't even know about it. So that's what we can do. But then at home, they'll fit into five euros if you want. In case you were wrong about the application, he's a camel. Do we need a marriage like this? We don't need that kind of law. As far as Members and other officials are concerned, there is an Internet where we prescribe the legal duty of each Member or of all other officials to publish their assets at the time of their appointment. And the people will be the best controller. If I write there that I own this one, that one, that one, all my neighbors will be able to see it if it's published. And all my neighbors will be three or a hundred times better controllers than KPK. And the media will see. We have done this many years ago to make public our assets in the SDS Group. The media didn't report much of this, but they found a mistake. My colleague Eva Irgle didn't report two shares. She didn't know she owned it because her old mom left her. It was something like that, if I remember correctly. Instead of saying: “SDS has published its assets, give the others.” When we introduced the law in this direction, your predecessors were against it. Why is that? I have no problem explaining anything. Let us continue to list these cases, in which I have already partially stopped. 26. 9. 2011, the previous KPK with, I think, Mr Klemenčič at the head. Journal. They're predicting there's a call for three people. The Journal says: “This one, this one and this one will be accepted.” He's been keeping an eye on the show. And what happens later? Exactly the same ones were employed. Anything corrupt? I think so, given the definition I read earlier. The situation of Slovenia has already been discussed by Eva Irgle, and the recapitalisation of banks has been processed by her, so I will not deal with it. But it is the KPK that we will not only "symphate" it, in fact, I do not know if it was still with Mr Klemenčič, you will say yes or no. I think he even had it, which is the Zalar-Fisher-Skler case. KPK, I think even during Mr Klemenčič's time, recognized this employment as corruption. Or it was later, now I don't know when it was, but she recognized it as corrupt behavior, so we wouldn't just "symphate" KPK, but they had to send one of three letters, and then it went well. But for the fourth time, it's been digested. Not to speak of Mr. Praetor. Former Prime Minister Janša, I think in 2012 his professional colleagues brought in, now I don't know, three files if I remember anything. Three thick files of articles written by Rok Praprotnik. Of course, they were all against SDS and Janez Janša. That's why this gentleman was employed by the KPK. But not in the first attempt. In the first attempt, one of the experts of the National Assembly was selected, and I think there is an expert member of the Economic Commission for the Economy on the Committee for the Economy. But when he saw that Mr. Klemenčič was chosen, he said, "No, no, no, no, no. My name is too valuable to waste." And he stayed here in the National Assembly anonymous. An anonymous man who's probably doing his job honestly, and he didn't want a much higher salary there. In the new tender, however, everything was clear. That he's a selected journalist, journalist Rock Praprotenik. If this was some ex-criminal, you'd understand. If this were a former prosecutor, I'd have understood it before, and the criminal judge would have understood it. No, the journalist was chosen. It shall be elected by the President of the State of Danilo Türk. Don't you think it's a reward for your previous job? Of course it's a reward for your previous job. What else is there? But there are no conditions, you won't believe it. She doesn't have a lot of years of work in college. This does not count, this is not of interest to Mr Klemenčič, nor does Mr Türk, nor does anyone care. And of course they say he'll be busy because they made up their mind, even though he didn't have the conditions. He didn't have enough work experience in college. Then a contract job was declared a work relationship, and they said it was fine. That's how it goes. When he got there, he was doing what he was doing, and among other things, he was seriously investigating a bank hole. Can you imagine? He was trying so hard. He's been swiveling so much that he's lost weight. I met him those days and he was a little thin. He was investigating the bank hole as vice-president, or as it is said, the anti-corruption commission. You won't believe it. He wrote a series of papers that he talked about terrible corruption. But no perpetrators. That's not what they were. But there weren't any. He didn't find any. You will not believe, then in 2013 or 2014, when Mr Klemenčič solemnly realized that he was saying good-bye to this function, that he would no longer work, I do not know what else, remember that press conference, and then the working relationship with Mr Praprotnik ended. 31. 3. This Decision shall enter But look at the fraction, April 1st, and the next day he's working at the Ljubljana Bank. So where he was looking for corruption, he found nothing. Busy in a very controversial way. With the signature of Mr Štefanec, the Anti-Corruption Commission confirmed that there was corruption in these jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, is that all right? Is that all right? For those of you who don't support the recommendations, it's obvious. I've got something underlining again that he won't say any names. I've got some stuff back here. Look, Mr Jurij Šumečnik, I am not stressed here, it is okay, I have something else underlined, he has no idea of working at social work centres, because he has never dealt with it, but he is appointed director of the Centre for Social Work in Slovenj Gradc. I don't know what he's been up to, maybe it's forestry, you'll know that, I don't know what he's been up to, but I'm sure he's not with social work centers. He has no idea. I guess whoever's sitting here would be sitting here, like you two, the head of the maternity ward can. Yeah, and we know something about that, too. Look, this is crazy. The SD pushed him at all costs for the director of the Centre for Social Work. Even the minister intervened. Is there anything corrupt? Nothing. Well, then what happens? All these stories with the Korean boys and so on, and this gentleman, after that judgment of the court, has also resigned. But the next day he becomes an electrician. She works in Elektra Celje – or what they are now called by the new – electrical expert. Because it is controlled by the SD, which has all its “counted” there. He's got all his stuff in social work centers, and you don't have anything like I know, or you've got a bit of a fight, and the SD controls everything there. And that's why he becomes an electrician. Is there a problem? There's no dispute. No, no, no, no, no. Stefanec didn't do anything either. The banks were processed by Eva, so I'm not going to talk about it. We're back at SD. Marenc, it's also one gentleman, I don't have a cross, so it's okay, it's legal. The government temporarily managed the Slovenian State Forests, which by the way have 255,000 hectares of forests owned by the State, first trusted the director of the forestry company Sneznik from the Kočevska River, Juli Rupnik. But temporarily. This soon withdrew and by the end of April 2016 Miha Marenča, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, had come to this position. It's okay. It's okay. However, the same man was the CEO of the Slovenian National Forests company and, at the same time, the President of the Supervisory Board of Sneznik from the Kočevska River. Both companies are owned by the State, and in the tender for the broadcasting of works in the forests managed by the Slovenian National Forest Company run by Marenče, the business is obtained almost exclusively by Sneznik, where the same person is a member of the Supervisory Board. Yeah, bravo! You nod if you prove otherwise, that's fine. I even apologize if I say something wrong. They took him down already, didn't they? Okay. Okay. Nina Beach, it's not black, it's legal, I can talk. See the Republic of Slovenia and the judiciary in the Slovenian system depends on the heading bankruptcy legislation by Mrs. Nina Plažno, Doctor of Science. There is no man in this country who can fix this law. He's not here. I remember in 2012 that the then Minister of Justice was making a relative effort, and I also said to him, "Take a change of legislation past this woman already." He couldn't. He couldn't, he couldn't. What's this all about? This person writes everything about bankruptcy legislation. There's a very clear rule among judges, if you want to screw up, then go to bankruptcy law, because you will. Why? Because the law is written in such a way that it is not understood by the living God. She understands it, the others don't, the judges don't, the others don't. She understands it. But she writes the law, then teaches the law, then finds that the law is bad and proposes to ministers – usually ministers change – new solutions. Of course, it's paid for everything. There you have my question, and you will see how much she won in what year by the Justice Department and the Court. In the meantime, he will write an opinion for party A, which is being sued by party B, and then write an opinion for party B. [[advertising from the hall]] It's a condition that's not normal. I don't want to talk about health care, I don't know if my colleague Eva said anything, if time allows me, but I will, and I'll talk about these vein braces and all those other things, where it smells like corruption as much as you want. Look, the case that I'm going to be by law, the law says the former president of the Republic. The case of the former President of the Republic, Mr Danil Türk. EKO-PARKiz Lendava, and you now make a thought pattern, and replace the name Danilo Türk with Janez Janša and insert it there when I say Danilo Türk, the name Janez Janša. Well, try it. The company EKO-PARK from Lendava is owned by the municipality of Lendava. In 2012, the company earmarked a thousand 500 euros for Danil Türk's electoral campaign. How you financed yourself, I don't know. If you've financed yourself as much as he has, then it's typical evidence that you belong to the elite. But if you didn't fund yourself like that, the other one's old. I can tell you how we are. We paid for the campaign. Money on your hands, take it off. Bye. Yeah, how's that? No thousand 500 euros came from anyone. Let's move on. This company has therefore earmarked a thousand 500 euros. The EKO-PARK is owned by the municipality of Lendava and, as you know, the law prohibits the financing of the electoral campaign. When the Court of Auditors found this, it came to a regular court and in the case of Roman Ferencak, the organizer of the election campaign of former President Danil Türk, issued a reminder. It's a warning. Although the Court of Auditors did not agree, it protested. But the court is final, because we know that, he got a reminder. Now let's move on. But when, in the case of the Mayor of Maribor, Fištrovec, who is nothing to my liking, is political, but it is necessary to be honest with everyone in this country, and there they found 100 euros of this kind, i.e. hidden, illegal financing of the electoral campaign. And look, the court has pronounced a fair EUR 5,000 fine. Do we not have a just trial? When the question of the elite level of former President Danil Türk is a reminder. But if it turns out that someone else is like the mayor of Maribor in this case, there's a thousand euros. Well, you answered the question of how many thousands of euros would there be if John Janša were there. Did you find out? Or if it was me or anyone from the SDS, it doesn't matter. That's the media's attitude. Here was one of our MPs, who allegedly had a fake diploma, who couldn't go to the bathroom because there was a cordon out there back in Tito's day. Cordon is a journalist. But when something happens to you at some social work center or something, there's nothing wrong with it, and everything's fine. Or those red vests. That's all right, but there's no press outside. That's why the story matches. Well, this Mr. Ferencak also misrepresented the electoral campaign, he was mistaken for 27,000 euros, but he is still a reminder. So much for correctness. Hereinafter, some comments, remarks or what they are called, Mr Radič, have disappeared, gone. Okay. Systemic changes to the KPC are required. I agree with you. Systemic changes to the KPC are required. Yes, it is. Main opinions, executive powers out, and a preventive role. Property to the Court of Auditors and public publication. Checks at the Court of Auditors and public disclosures of property. If you mean this kind of change, I support you. However, if you think of the change you will bring here in September, but there will be in the transitional and final provisions, I will now tell you what in the transitional and final provisions it will say that the new KPK leadership will be named within one month. Or, in other words, you're going to tear down Stephen. But if that's what you're thinking, then I don't agree with you. I don't know what kind of change you were thinking. The law is not suitable for further consideration. Since you're a humorist on Radio Murska Sobota or the Murski wave, somewhere out there, I suggest you say it there. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, it's humor, because we don't deal with the law. You said the law wasn't suitable for further consideration. Yeah, you don't have a law in front of you. So you brought a little humor from the radio, which is good, I agree, it's not bad at all. You reasoned that not the MNZ, not the Ministry of Justice. Okay, if you think so. Let him be a self-sustaining body of an advisory nature. That's no problem. Well, Mrs. Popot, an attempt to settle with Klemenčič. I hope that you have succeeded at this time, given that I have now counted 10, 11, 12 cases, that at this time you have found any evidence that this document that we are considering today, or that my performance in anything means an attempt to settle with Mr Klemenčič. I'll be very happy, and you have time to make that public, and you'll present this evidence. But if you say it's an attempt to settle with Klemenčič, it's a floscule. [[advertising from the hall]] Then it's a flossule that's nothing. The proceedings shall be conducted by the authorities. Which authorities are in charge of the procedures? Well, let's see which authorities run the procedures, let me know. Who is in charge of the procedure concerning the employment of the daughter of Danil Türk? Who's in charge of the employment of Branko Masleš's son? Who's in charge of Mrs. Anne Kučan's contracts? Who's running this procedure? I don't know these procedures, and nobody's running them either, and that's what I've been alerting them to. So no one's running the procedures. But you were able to read a lot about the employment of our President's daughter in 2013. You could've read that. And that's what KPK was investigating. The same year they were, nothing. Is that KPK then? It's not. You've listed the laws. CAP and so on. This has nothing to do with the matter at hand. Then list the Law on Funeral Activities and the Law on Agriculture, and you can also list the Law against the Flood, because we have adopted many of them in the National Assembly, but this has nothing to do with what we are talking about today. But if she has one, then you need to base that on what she's like. Well, let's say between the Law of Flooding and this material. About the frost or what we've had before. You can hardly answer Mr Škobernet because he had some discussion at a very principled level at a very, very principled level. Actually, it's hard to embarrass him with anything. But he mentioned the vote on the CAP. [[…]] On the committee, those who are not members of the Justice Committee voted to move the law to one of the following meetings. That was last Thursday, if I remember correctly, or it was Wednesday, Wednesday, something like that. You can see that. So SMC voted to move the law to one of the following meetings. For I have justified that everyone is against this country. And I've also figured out who's against it. When I got my word on the next item on the agenda, I think it was this one, on the committee, that I thanked the SMC Members for their reasonable conduct. Against the decision to postpone, Mrs Porotatova and Mr Škoberne voted, which happens many times in coalition, we will say so. I also expected that my proposal would not be accepted, but you accepted it, so I thanked you from the heart. But look at the fraction, and the next morning you realized that the law was so urgent that a meeting should be convened immediately within 24 hours. What happened in the middle? Yeah, your hands are broken. There came a bush, and he threatened you, and he broke his arm a little, of course, in the nincompoops, and everything was necessary. Mr. Skoberne didn't run the meeting. I remember at the time that I have been in Parliament, only one session, which has been conducted against the will of the President. This was the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, and in 2009 it was what I led. And I did not put on the agenda a point that gentlemen from the coalition would like and the Vice-President convened a meeting, which was against the rules of procedure, and led the committee. This time it did not happen, Mr Škoberne was present at the meeting, sitting like a pile of accidents there in the corner because you were lustrating him. Yeah, you made a chandelier over him. The session was chaired by Mrs Korenjak. And you tried to make a story out of it. But Dr. Tanko, Dr. Rules of Procedure, which, as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, has turned a little knowledge around. And then that was it. So much for what Mr Skoberne was not allowed to say because he was a member of the coalition. I'm gonna save myself a little more time, 'cause there's probably something else to react to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u196	Mr. Chairman! Unfortunately, my forecast is that there will be no constructive, substantive debate on how to fight corruption even more effectively in this society. I must say that I am madly disappointed as a man over you, honourable Member, because we talk, you say sometimes, I am a politician, I must say something. We're people first. I think that one of the minimum ethical standards is necessary in public. Since you are also an example to many people and are justified many times, it would be very fitting not to talk about people who are not here, such things because they cannot even defend themselves, some are not public officials that you so expose. It is difficult for me as a man to listen to this because I know and I suppose, but I hope that I am not critical of you in this case, but why I suppose, in the case that you highlighted in our story for those lost signatures under the Law on Human Initiative and the referendum I will now put this adjusted manipulative display of your impression of how you did it. I will go into the context of the previous debate when we have all tried to make the procedures in this country more effective. What was the problem with the process of losing 300 or 500 signatures on the way from the National Assembly to the Ministry of the Interior, as you well said, and now the question is where they got lost. We are now going into the context of a people who are expecting some kind of efficiency, and so on, as it sees, that the State – not even the then Minister of the Interior, Mr Gorenak, nor the then President of the National Assembly, can determine whether they were lost or lost there. How can this people see that this cannot be established? That was the subject of that story. And it's really strange that you couldn't figure it out. That opinion was written in a very dignified, very correct, credible and within one month, which was the standard of procedure in the KPK, because we had a two-phase. If the test had failed to establish the case to the extent that it was justified to initiate the procedure, it had to be completed within a very short period of time and then a new story. That was prescribed. Moreover, it was a resounding thing at the time because it seemed to be a limitation of the most important democratic right — the human initiative and the referendum, because 500 documents had been lost. There we wrote very correctly that there was probably an error because it was materially justified, which was also evident in the record that they had been incorrectly entered. Here in the National Assembly, it was very arranged, and there were no two days where they were, but uncontrollable at the tables, you know that. It's all in public. And we didn't go to the finals, but we just said that's probably what happened. Whether it is now the President of the National Assembly or the Minister of the Interior, they are both representatives of the authorities in that country, and the people, it seems to me that it is justified to have an excuse if the people wish to exercise their democratic right, but the two representatives of the Authority cannot determine where 300 or 500 signatures have been lost on hundreds of meters. That's it. Such debates, when, in fact, completely outside the context and those shown here on paper, strengthen my conviction and my previous findings as to why in the period 2004-2012 you were in the middle of 4 years plus 1, that is 5 years, and none of that. which you now expect to be done within one month, you have not done in the context of banking crime, economic crime and so on, because you have not done so. You say things that are completely out of context because you only seem to impress those who want to listen to you. What is even more serious is that if people worry about things that are unlikely to happen in the future, because they are slightly activated, they are more attentive and then they do not happen most often. However, it is very worrying if people worry about things from the past that have not happened and show them as if they were, and then on this basis they explain some of the concerns, fears. If I were to just mention it, it's your guess that there should be a million migrants here right now, one way or another, that I'm not saying anything else. In the context of this debate, which I have been very fond of in substance, I must say, honourable Member, which is not, Škoberne, on these methods, as to how corruption actually takes place in individual societies. This passively silent allowing systemic corruption. Look, you mentioned the CAP. In our conviction and effort, we have brought the matter so far because we think that this is a good tool that can contribute to improving and more efficient procedures. At this committee’s meeting, the extension – what happened? One hour, when, in fact, most of the time, I would say, persistent lawyers from criminals whose truth is not an ally, but a burdensome one, you have brought the matter procedurally, that there could not even be a substantive debate on the amendments and on the vote. But what's worrying in the context of saying that it's really wrong for people to worry about things that haven't happened. That's bad. What was the basic thesis of your representative, Mr. Tank, and you who were there? You said: "This law regulates secret entrances to apartments. The Ombudsman did not give an opinion. Horrible for this country," and so on. None of this is true! None of this is regulated as far as entering secret rooms is concerned, this law. In addition, the Ombudsman delivered an opinion in June or April 2016. But on the basis of false allegations, and people can't see it, it's done with a pomp and it's done procedurally so that there's not even a substantive debate. That's insufferable. But that's why we're in this society. I'm sorry. Because you're making too much impression, but you're not trying too hard to get the result. And a lot of times, I believe that, just as I used the illustration of the microscope before – but some things you can't see being done, and others see them. That's why qualified informants happen when you make a suggestion for our copy-paste. It's a story. And when you are so persistently attacking the CAP. You did not make any amendments to those three articles, which are essentially the subject or the reason why you are attacking this as well as the parliamentary group. She gave the combined left, and you gave no one. You've given it to others. Because I'm sure you know these are good things. It is a fact, however, that no reform means reform on its own if nothing happens. Reform means in a democratic society that you do more or better with the same means or that you need to strengthen or change a little bit to make it more and better. It can't all be the same. Not even if it's the same team. You did the same manipulation here with ZIntPK. The law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, as you said, will come with a transitional provision in September. There is no such transitional provision in this law; there is an expert inter-resortary process; the matter is essentially a decision by the Government. Again, one fact and one claim, which is unrealistic, unrealistic and you build one whole story on this basis because you make an impression. These are things that mean the least significantly slower progress of society, not just to be good and effective. We are discussing content and concrete solutions for and against arguments. But not one of those flossules that has nothing to do with reality. Please! We've been here for five hours now, and I haven't heard anything as a representative of the executive branch of power to say, "Great, we're going to try to put this into law now or with an amendment." With this goal that we all have together to make society better. Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u197	Mr Darko Stare, I must say that it is right to say what was not true and what is true; but please avoid evaluations. You don't have that right in this national council. The MP has the right to say what he thinks even if it's ever wrong. So the ratings are not your problem; but the facts can be your problem. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. [[advertising from the hall]] Gradually, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that it is insulting what Member Gorenak said earlier that I was speaking in my position about laws that do not belong here. I was talking about laws that will be effective and will contribute to faster detection and investigation, criminal investigation. I cited the Law on Courts, the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Public Prosecutions. And he's telling me to tell the funeral act yet. Please don't let me complain like that. Furthermore, I have said that it is a personal matter with the former President of the KPK. This was the position of the Group of Members. At that time, I could say that Klemenčič is a thorn in the Fifth Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is clear from a well-known report on the property situation in which KPK notes that the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party could not explain the origin of some more than EUR 200 000. As is known, this report triggered the fall of the Janša government. Now I answer that question you asked. Please kindly, Vice-President of the National Assembly, tell Mr Gorenak to respect his fellow Members and not to speak so misleadingly, because the people who listen think that everyone who sits here is really stupid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u199	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u200	Thank you very much. First of all, this vice president's move. Members of Parliament, I do not know whether we are all aware of the position of Member, Secretary of State or Minister. But the Secretary of State can be anyone. The situation is that those who make up governments actually have problems because they don't get candidates. But there's more you have to do for the city of the Member. First of all, you have to be elected by the people. And that's why I think it's the vice president's attitude. But that's what all vice presidents and presidents of the National Assembly should do. That's one. Second. Mrs. Popot, you said, an attempt to settle with Klemenčič. Look at the magnetogram, take the mirror and say, "I'm lying. Okay, that's one. I wasn't talking about what you just said. You were now talking about adopting the Law on Courts, and the law, and the second law, and the third law; this has nothing to do with corruption. And that's why I said you could also list the Funeral Activity Act. That's why I said it. This has nothing to do with it. This may have to do with criminal acts of corruption, but not with corruption. You need to know that. And I have no intention of offending you. But I will tell you what I think; and nothing else. Whether you like it or not, it is a completely different question. And don't expect me to have a different relationship with you than anyone else. Mr. Old, coffee doesn't help anything, because I paid for it, it's okay. You were talking about a transitional provision, that supposed transitional provision. That's what I'm expecting. That's what I said. But if I stopped it with my performance, I'd be very happy. Then I'll be very happy. You say we're attacking the CAP. That's not true. Who's attacking the CAP? There's no right in this room to speak experts, professors of three law schools, no right to speak to judges, no right to speak to prosecutors, and I don't know who else. All those who are against the law have no right to speak. This is the order in parliamentary democracy. That is why this vote is taken from the Slovenian Democratic Party, and so am I. I'm not attacking the law, but I'm telling you what experts, judges, prosecutors, lawyers and others say. They're all against the law. And you're saying we're attacking. And procedurally, what we had on the board. I don't know what comparison I should give. Don't you think a woman who is being tried for rape is going to defend herself? It's a natural phenomenon. And you are raping the Members with this law. What remains for Members of Parliament is to take advantage of all legal options under the Rules of Procedure. And we'll be in the future. If you rape people. Look what you've done to Scobernet. It can't be like that. It is logical that we will use all legal remedies, business, even in the future. I can process the crumbs by 7:00 in the morning. I can take that much, I'll tell you, even if we start at ten o'clock in the morning. That's the way it is. It needs to be real. Bank crime, 2004-2008, you spoke. What did we have between 2004 and 2008? There must have been some kind of crime in the area of banking crime, but there was no bank hole. Then why are you selling me this story? Next, “you expose people who are not here”. That's not true. Who did I expose? Tell me in an argument with the name and surname I highlighted. Everything I've said is in the paper. It's all in the canteens. I didn't say a single name and last name outside the newspaper articles. So the Slovenian public is already aware of this, they just forgot a little bit, probably. Don't tell me and read something that's not true, "you're putting people out." That's not true. Everyone's already been publicly exposed in the media, and I haven't mentioned anyone outside of this, anyone. Now you're selling my pumpkins again, and you're saying you have steak, that's not true. You don't have steak, but you have pumpkins. And you say about the records of the lost signatures. Damn it, you know exactly that by 2012, no one and never since 1990 or 1991, since we've known the referendums, has counted any papers or papers in this National Assembly, where the entry point is down there. Never! He's never issued a certificate or anything. How can you say that the signatures were lost with me, i.e. at the Ministry of the Interior, but if the records were not here, in the National Assembly? Here, she wasn't in the National Assembly. Besides, I have a very clear theory of what happened and where the guilt is, but I can't blame the people here, and I won't. And I won't. Don't tell me my signatures are lost. You give me the facts. Don't tell me that I'm talking to myself, and I don't know what it is, you answer me, please, with the facts. Why should I apologize for your assessment of 16 hours earlier? That's what you estimated. I answered within the time limit. And why not apologize to the then president of the National Assembly, who sent him there for 40 hours?Oh, my God! If you can explain it to me, explain it to me. And secondly, when you said - with facts. Yeah, with the facts. That's where I wrote down all those black people before, so I won't waste any time. Tell me why you didn't investigate all these cases. Why did you go after our Members and their children? Why did you not go after the daughters, the sons of Maslesha, the former president of the country, one and the other? Why didn't you go after them? And why were only the children's employment of members of the Slovenian Democratic Party interesting? If you can argue with me, I'll say I'm sorry. But you can't argue with that. Why are you in less than five or six hours after I signed three jobs at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in less than 12 hours I have already received a table – suspected corruption services, deliver all the documentation. I signed three jobs, and for all three of you, you immediately requested documentation. Did you also request from the other ministers? You'll say, "No, we didn't have an anonymous report. That's weird, but just from the MNZ, there were anonymous reports. Please, with facts, facts and figures. For I know how to say, I apologize if there is anything; but not only with the Flossules. So with the facts, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, the Secretary of State has come here to respond to the allegations made in this Recommendation. I have not heard that in my intervention I would say with a single word what is not true in this recommendation, which we have proposed as an act. He didn't say a single sentence. Nor was he able to explain why on the Commission to prevent corruption at a time when the Senate was headed by its boss, including the current one, Mr Klemenčič, Minister of Justice, why he acted so double. Therefore, you do not have any legal basis, not in the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption (ZintPK) and not in the CAP, nor in ethics, nor in morality, nor in anything. There is no legal basis for such duplicity. The point today is why it's like that. And I expect an answer from you, who are the Secretary of State, why this is so. We can change 100 laws and 100 other laws and regulations, but if such people are in office like you now, your boss Klemenčič, then nothing will change. They will always be on one side, one that has been processed, if they look at it badly; and on the other side nothing will happen to anyone. Why didn't you go through official procedures, say, in a bank hole, and review it? We expect answers from you, we don't need any questions. We ask the questions. We've given the material. We're standing behind it. We've given the signatures and you're obliged to answer that. But we're talking only about the two-faced behaviors of your Senate, the ex you worked for as head of the Investigations Service. There you forged the documentation, staged the processes, started the procedures; where something really happened, you didn't see anything. We expect answers from you. These are examples, even now you can act when you are Secretary of State, although you do not deserve these functions because you should not even accept them because you do not meet ethical or moral criteria. But that's what you are now because you're in this government; we expect answers to that. And nothing else, Mr. Secretary of State, if you're capable of answering. Lying, not fooling, because we know how to react to these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you. Secretary of State, Mr. Darko Stare, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to ask you one question because of the continuation of my response. Do I owe no response, for I am not prepared to protect my dignity? The Member of Parliament has now issued some valuable judgments – that I am lying that I was double-faced, that I have forged documents, and that I have abused the situation. These are essentially the most reprehensible acts in the country as crimes. I can't respond to that. Whether I can defend myself on this subject to say that what I am saying is true; and I will also expect an apology or an appropriate action. This debate is proof that respected applicants have completely different objectives than shown on paper in order to make things better. This is about discrediting individuals, Mr Klemenčič, now in my case, and so on. In a way, in my opinion, the damage to the time of all parliamentarians and this body for these things is, because this is not the right forum, this is the first. I'm gonna try to hold back, and that's just to think, because I think [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u205	No, no, wait. Here's where I have to say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u206	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u207	I used to be very clear that you can't judge debates, but you can stay at the level of facts. But you could say that it was like that and that. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, we'll take care of this. Here you go, Mr Darko Stare.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u208	In short, none of what you said about the KPK and these procedures is true. We have tried all procedures as quickly as possible; those we have started. As a result, we also immediately amended, proposed a change to the law, which stated that the debtors were obliged to respond within 15 days at the latest. We have deleted this because we believe that if the procedures are fast, they can also be effective and reach their goal; without doing the matter for 20 years. And we had a system like this. And these procedures that you say we're two-faced and so on. All procedures have been documented, started at 99% on the basis of applications and were made correctly. And they were also what you say we claimed you lost. No, we didn't say that, and everyone can read it. It's very likely that it could have happened there but it's substanceized, under which circumstances. In short, you make the thesis that we said something we didn't say. And how can a man defend himself from this?Oh, my God! Does that make sense? We just wanted to be effective, I'm sure, I know for myself, and for all the coworkers, honestly, carefully; but we have a problem because we did something. I have a problem with person A, person B, I'm not going to talk about names in public right now, for all I'm from someone. Do you understand? Same Klemenčice or anyone. And that's how you see it, I understand it, but that's how it is in a democratic society. There can be nothing out of nothing if something happens, but the procedures go away and the results are what they are. Also this partial presentation of some of the facts, which are then intended obviously for people to misunderstand; or they are only partially commented, as was the case in the case of the committee when we participated, Mrs Irgle. This is now current – Irangate. Mr Klemenčič said that we had filed an appeal; and then Mrs Irgl took advantage of the presence of Mr Štefanec on the other committee, now here is the Secretary of State, they said at KNOVS that and that; let me say. And you say no charges have been recorded. What did Mr. Stefanec say? It's not like it's not recorded. That it is recorded; that there is no recorded criminal charge, which does not mean that a criminal charge is not filed because we know in what forms and ways a criminal charge can be made. That's exactly what I went to see in the magnetogram. But as we say, this case is beautiful, how it wants to focus on something that can't be the result we want to clear up what the problem is. Because assuming, even if you didn't give me this information to the police, it's a fact that the police already had it. The fact is that this is a suspicion of a crime — serious, serious. The fact is that those responsible for this have obviously not done as it now seems we should do; no matter what the PKK did, because the PKK was unable to do anything about this in terms of corruption. But I can say something else, this is a novelty, at the request of Ambassador Logar I just signed today, we send documents, we get in the collection of documentary material from the Ministry of Justice that March 2012, so in the time of your government, to say so, and without any insinuation as a fact, but if I used your method, I could say: the Minister of Justice knew, so the government knew, but nothing. We have received that the French Justice Service of Paris has asked the Ministry of Justice for information on this case and has very explicitly said about what I received from the Bank of Slovenia in response was not a matter of suspicion of washing, fraud, document counterfeiting and so on. It was in the system and then the answer was sent back to Paris, but it's what it was. No one knew anything, apparently, even though the government or its department knew. And what's the focus or the problem? This is what I agree with, and I also said to the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission, let's ask ourselves how it is possible that those who are primarily responsible for these things do not identify this as a suspicion that procedures are being implemented. And that in the final stage, as we have learned before, the prosecutor says: "It is not or it is not. Because he's the only one qualified, not that he doesn't even get to the D.A. This is a fundamental question of improving these things and reducing risks; not now, who's got something. But you think we made it up ourselves, that we gave it up. Why? I'm telling you, this is all recorded in one way or another. I'm going to ask right now because I expect to be invited back, a panel to look into the documents, to refresh my memory. It's hard for me to bear what you do in one function of good faith, and then someone assigns you some purpose or I don't know why you didn't do it. And that's why some people don't want to work because they don't want to expose themselves because they know what's ahead. As soon as there's a dispute that they're real people, there's always a problem. And that's sad. At the same time, this also means a very weak respect for the institutions of their own country. I think we all have to respect the courts, the prosecutors, the police, the MPs and everything. However, when a person has a material reason to doubt, he will easily substantiate it. Not just the average. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] Dr. Matić, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u210	Mr. Chairman! I suggest you conduct this session in such a way as to protect the integrity of those invited here. The Secretary of State is in this house, if you want, even a guest, he behaves with dignity, he doesn't insult any Member, he doesn't resent any Member and he hasn't screamed at any Member. Mr. Tanko did all this. If Mr Tanko thinks that a gentleman acting as Secretary of State has done anything wrong, let him be taught that he has the opportunity to file a criminal complaint. On the other hand, I suggest that you call on Mr Tank to act roughly civilised; that he does not scream that he does not act in such a manner as the Secretary of State. Some basic respect must be maintained at this meeting. I think that you, as chairman, are responsible for this, so I am giving you a procedural proposal to try to hold the level of debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u211	Mr Matić, I cannot hold the level of debate, but I can lead as I lead. I think I did the right thing. I didn't hear Mr. Tank scream, that's what I have to say. However, the question is, whether we agree or not; but this is now another issue. Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thank you very much again for your word. Mr Vice-President, this meeting is written, it has a specific structure, it has a text. Some entries are written in the data, some are names, some have been deleted. The Secretary of State has come to the meeting of the National Assembly to discuss these agenda items, these indications, these claims. We have also proposed recommendations, three proposals for certain things. If you want to discuss your laws proposed by the Government and have fallen by voting your Members, your coalitions, your SMC Members; do not report to others that anything was then wrong in the course of the meeting. But you came here to talk about the content of this agenda item. Many of these points relate mainly to the time when there was a minister who was not present today, probably for a reason, the head of the KPK Senate. You were his head of SNAP, whatever she's called, and you were also doing these things operationally. And we expect answers to why the KPK was so double-faced. On the one hand, cases have been dealt with with with with all necessary media support; on the other hand, they have completely ignored identical things. It's identical stuff. We're not saying that any of us is anything. But why was it like this? This agenda item is intended for this purpose. That organ dichotomy, if you want. The body which should defend the interests of Slovenia; however, the political body was at the end, as has been shown in many subsequent court decisions in the Supreme Court or the Constitutional Court in the courts. Why is that? Some cases have been processed, others have not. And we need these answers from you if you want us to put this country's operation on a higher level, an equal level for everyone to have equal opportunities and access. That's what we're expecting, and we're expecting you to do. But there are no answers. But you're dealing with everything else. It's just that if we've tried to stop some stupid thing that everyone's opposed to it, it's no problem, thank God. You're incapable of making something better. But right now we want to discuss the recommendation and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Old, you've wasted your time. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you've done something unusual. You don't have time anymore. I have a 15-minute chance of having you as a salami. [[…]] And I'm not gonna do that because I'm a decent man, so I won't. But still, an explanation. I didn't say you attributed the loss of signatures to me. That's not what I said. But I wanted to answer the question of why it was 16 hours – in your opinion that I could have sent the signatures here earlier – disputed and why the 40 Virants were not disputed. In this regard, I have asked you for answers, and now, according to the rules of procedure, I will obviously not get this answer because you do not have time. Then I asked you if you would explain; you were there talking about how you treated everything the same way. I apologize, but once again: Have you considered the employment of Mr Masleš's son? Have you considered the employment of the daughter of former President Türk? Have you dealt with Mrs Ana Kučan's affairs with the Municipality of Ljubljana, the town of Blejski Castle or where? Have you considered them? The public needs to know. You haven't dealt with them. But you have troubled the employment of our president's daughter in a company that is mostly privately owned. I wanted an answer here. I was expecting answers here, and I didn't get those answers, so I'm saying it was incorrect. Now I'm gonna say it. The last time a student came to me, he said, "I have an average of 9.5, but I got a 9. Now I don't know what it is. But I think you've misjudged my mission here, so I think you've made a mistake here and so on." We looked at it in speaking hours. “I’m sorry,” I told him. Smooth 10. And I can do that. But it would also be right for you and Mr Klemenčič to say that you did not do the right thing. You didn't do it right! I used to say I hired three people in my time. One of them's back there. He has been employed in the state administration since 1999. In 2012, you were dealing with a problem with such employment. You see, that's incorrect. These are things that are not right; and this is what I am talking about today. And if you would say to me, "Yes, we have dealt with all these cases; and if you would communicate, as Mr Štefanec now does, he says that the employment of Skrlec is corruption. A calm soul says so, and I was a critic of his layout when you put him in this place because he was – because I think he was already in front of you – in Jankovic's client. But a man is balanced, he can say one thing or another. But I didn't feel this balance when you were on KPK. And that's what's wrong. That's what's wrong. So far, I don't waste my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u216	Dear Vice President! We are looking at recommendations that are constantly being referred to as talking about them. But I haven't listened to any of the recommendations in the last hour, but I'm only listening to some kind of paradox that doesn't have a head or tail. We have the Secretary of State in front of us, and he speaks from a position of work and tasks that he does not perform at all. What if the Secretary of State wasn't here today? What would we even talk about? Would you like to talk about this subject?Oh, my God! Your job, Vice President, is to cut these things off, because it's not going anywhere anymore. The Secretary of State doesn't even talk about what he's actually doing, but he's talking about some things that belong to other places, somewhere else. And it seems unworthy to me, unworthy, neither in accordance with the reference nor with anything. And this is the task of the one who runs this session to warn. I don't blame him at all because they play the story – politically, fantastically. I don't blame them for anything; but I resent you, Vice President, because that's not fair because we should stop it. And you know it! And from the procedure, it's wrong. Then explain what you want. This place is round because we're trying to be the same to each other. But we have different powers, but that's how we communicate, and that's not going anywhere anymore. This is no longer a circle; but a circle seen by someone in a triangle, in a pyramid, or whatever you will; but a circle is no more.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Of course I have to answer that. On the contrary, Mr Jani Möderndorfer said that the Secretary of State did not say what he should. Excuse me, I don't know what the Secretary of State said and where he spent all his time. Indeed, the matter went into some accounting, but in the end Mr Gorenak also went to the content of that point on the table. I'm not saying it didn't go a little over; but the secretary's response was also on a personal level, so I think the matter has settled. I now hope that Mr Matić will not ask procedurally for a scream. Procedurally, Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Matić said earlier that Mr. Tanko had cried. Let me measure it a little bit. Mr. Möderndorfer yelled at you, yelled at you, and insulted you. There's been a difference between you two for so many years that you could tell the vice president – you. So, Vice President, I suggest you give him a reminder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u220	My fellow Member! Here's the deal. As long as we are Members here equal, we all have parliamentary immunity and we are of different political colours, we are equal. And I'll talk to the tone I want! No, no, you can wave at me as much as you want; I will speak as it pleases me and as I want! Okay! When you speak to the representative of the executive, and you know that his time has run out; or you knew exactly that he would fall into the trap to spend his time – of course, politically wise. And second, most importantly, you are a Member, a representative of the people, and he is only an executive. Of course, we can play this way and then be warned that they are no longer equal. That is the difference, and this is what Mr Matić pointed out. Yeah. I didn't yell at the Secretary of State. But before I spoke to my colleague, I came to warn him that I would protest very strongly. I can't protest by mouse. If you know, come on! Now what's important. Vice-President, three recommendations need to be read. If you read all three recommendations well, they have nothing to do with what has been discussed in the last hour. That's what I'm talking about. And you know this very well, so we should warn and stop this story and say that this is not the subject of this discussion, focus on the subject of the recommendations. They say wisely and wisely: Let us talk about the recommendations. But they do not really talk about the recommendations, they deal with the personal stories they have, their pains and traumas they have with their supreme leader and prince of darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u221	Okay, they heard you. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grims and Dr. Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Vice President. I finally got to the point. Right from the start, I'm going to say that I really meant to have a debate on corruption, but the last minute or whatever, I'd say, then put a man on the other side and really ask myself in this hour and a half, what am I doing here?Oh, my God! Because more or less this item of the agenda really got a little abused and went into a so-called political personal relationship. I must admit, I am very interested in corruption today and tomorrow. For the record, I don't think he's just tanning me as an MP. I am tantamount only to this part of how many activities can be carried out in the National Assembly as a legislative body to avoid such anomalies, derogations, corruption of integrity and the like; what is applicable legislation. I must also admit that I have a little response to my colleague. He can have a very large frequency, but I don't have to listen to it. I believe that despite all our membership and personal dignity in this congregation, we are aware of something — although I do not agree with the matter, this does not mean that we cannot talk in a normal tone. We may be different people, but this difference means that we must also respect one another. If I'm in some context, I need to put in a few words here because I really won't talk much, Dr. Vinku Gorenak. He uses words a lot, and they're also tied to my task force, breaking our hands. As far as this recommendation is concerned, let me say that I will support it. I'm not against these recommendations, and I'm just wondering how they're gonna break my hands today or tomorrow; because I'm gonna come back here tomorrow, and I'm probably gonna have normal hands. I know this is meant to be a parable, but it is not always exactly the way it is used in some political language. As far as funding is concerned, it is often said that the Group of the Modern Centre Party is also financed from different circles or so-called routes. I'm talking to myself. I've financed my activities myself. These so-called political words to blacken out or manifest some unreality, you know, then nothing helps by saying it, even if it is possible to apologize. The moment he's in the room, he's got some weight. So it's right that we're a little distracted about things like this. Let me go back now, as far as corruption is concerned. I think we are all aware that corruption is an integral part of every country or society. What the applicant mentioned in the introduction also concerns the comparison of individual countries. Even if it is statistically in a Scandinavian country or two – 0; they themselves recognise that individual cases of corruption are individual cases. It is true, however, that, regardless of the political authority of any party, corruption is always and will also be present in the Republic of Slovenia. The only thing is, to what extent or to what extent. This is why it is very, very, very much, one would say, general things which in no country can be brought to the level of desire; and also a number of acts, including the act of this government, have been written that in the area of corruption that is the target, namely, zero level of corruption. I also theoretically don't think that's possible. It is true, however, that if the government is responsible, all such activities are carried out not only at the normative level, but also at the actual level, with the activity of minimizing, as much as possible, such procedures as we know - corruption, but also integrity. I expected at this point in the agenda today; what you have proposed with recommendations is in place for me, because there is talk of how to prepare in advance what the government should do. I don't have a problem here, even if the Secretary of State said there's no need for the government to have that. Yeah, that's it. This means that within six months, if this recommendation is accepted, the government can come with pride and say, "We have!" However, if it has already been prepared, they may immediately follow the parliamentary holidays of this procedure into the legislative procedure. I see nothing wrong, except in this context that certain things are really starting to move. I do not wish to refer to the topic of the previous item, but since today is a very broad debate, I must admit that in my criticism in a number of matters I agree with those who say that after three years in the area of economic crime prosecution, at least in this case the bank hole, there are no significant movements or they are too slow. I have said on my own several occasions that I believe that it does not mean anything to Members and also citizens if hundreds of indictments or indictments have been filed. The question immediately arises how much legal power there is, how many legal proceedings there are. We do know, however, that these proceedings result, at least as far as they can with these indications, which are also being followed in the public eye, that most are going in the direction that they are likely to be exonerating judgments. It is entirely the concern and duty of Members or the legislative branch of authority to try to influence, within our powers, not the judicial branch of authority, but how much we can reach out to some procedural or material regulations, in order that one way or another – I hope that you will not misinterpret me – to force a little more activity in this matter. As far as corruption is concerned, I don't think we should go blind. If we just look at the media lately, which is not left or right, how much corruption has been discovered in health care, and I won't talk anywhere else. They also happen in the area of public property management and so on. I think that the executive branch of the government must also look at the matter from this side, so that we simply realize that things cannot be done overnight; but in a year, two or three it is realistic to expect at least some step that is going in this direction. The reference to being prepared and to be settled, I think that some Members are so self-critical that it is difficult to accept this after as long as we are already in this mandate. If I finish, Dr. Gorenak, I'm sure I'll be the same with my hands tomorrow as I am today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u224	Thank you. Just one sentence. I know you'll have both hands, but we're not voting. You know, it's a joke. So you can't support the recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u225	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Get Dr. Ange Logar and Mr. Janko Weber ready. Here you go, mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u226	Thank you. Let me first express my respect for the words of the predecessor and his obviously good intentions, which unfortunately cannot be realized because of the actions of his colleagues. On the other hand, I understand that as a member of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Möderndorfer is now in an extremely difficult situation when today he has shown so clearly what his mission is – that he wants to be the last nail in the baptism of the Modern Centre Party. When we go back to corruption and corruption, I would point out that there is another element that is the mother and father of all corruption in Slovenia. This is the situation in Slovenian media. What's most problematic is systemic corruption if we want to see it that way and admit it. An example that is widely discussed in this National Assembly. An investigative researcher investigating pagetics in Slovenian medicine found this: that there is some medium, quite obsessive, but leftists have long read it as a Bible, whose owners are financed from very strange business from Slovenian health, public health. This means that someone is taking money from Slovenian patients, retranslating it to a company, and if anyone wants to point out that it is wrong, of course the media and everyone who follows it is the most brutal, with the most harsh humiliations, insults, attacks to stay the same, and that the media or its owners can continue to draw money from public health. People are dying, and some are getting rich under the cover of public health. Systemic corruption of a couple of excellence, if we want to see it, but it is not the only case, there are still a few. And this is a fundamental problem that we should face. The Anti-Corruption Commission acted unilaterally at the time of the previous leadership, the current Minister of Justice, and therefore certain proposals that you have already broken are also justified. Do you know what unilateral, therefore, action by the Commission to prevent corruption means? To act corruptly on its own, for it affords someone a benefit that he would not otherwise be entitled to. This means that, under the leadership of Mr Klemenčič, we had a commission to promote corruption, if we call it the right name. And the intercultural dialogue that we spoke so much about years ago in this National Assembly requires us to call things by the right name. And once we take that into account, things are pretty obvious. First and foremost, what we should have when dealing with cases, both of them, are the same criteria for all, because, in fact, corrupt treatment even allows, accelerates and rewards at the same time. And it is the act of those who, under the cover of the fight against corruption, work and create inequality, depending on political preferences, even in themselves corrupt. What an interesting paradox. We have a body to promote corruption. We had it under our previous leadership, and under our previous, by the way, same. That this body has done so also proves the fate of its strong discoveries and judgements, which some have already had a very infamous end in the Constitutional Court and elsewhere in the system of the Republic of Slovenia; but the harmful consequences remain. Someone else had the benefit of that. Those who have acted corruptly themselves under the cover of the persecution of corruption have, therefore, benefited from it and have been rewarded. After all, Mr Klemenčič is today's minister. It's a pretty awkward situation. And when Mr Klemenčič talks about persecuting corruption in Slovenia, I don't know why the dog that hunts its own tail is always showing up to me, and it spins faster and faster, and the seams and the seams; and, of course, it doesn't lead anywhere. Mr Klemenčič would do the most to prosecute corruption in Slovenia if he and his colleagues were to withdraw immediately from the city he is carrying out. This would in fact be something positive in persecuting corruption in Slovenia. By the way, Mr Klemenčič, whom you mentioned this time, would point out that much about corruption – even in the part which is not necessarily defined as a crime, is undoubtedly corruptive – could be remedied if Mr Klemenčič kept his word, which he had given once when he was running for minister. For when Mr Klemenčič ran for Minister, I asked him if he supported the fact that compensation should also have a penalty role. And he said, "Absolutely, this is the first thing I'm going to do." Of course, there is no trace of this to this day, and obviously we will never be under it. And this allows those who give some unfair privileges, whatever, and this objectively acts corruptly in the broadest sense of the word that they do it without any particular consequences, so that they can recalculate joyfully. We spill so much and so much manure on one's head, we sell so many and so many copies more for that, that's what it's called; it's fine, it's worth it to us. And he's watching him, and his family's watching him. [[…]] This makes it possible for Mr Klemenčič himself. Or, like, in health care. This allows one unconscious doctor to use the weaker material that he probably overpays for the surface, but he knows very well who he is, by the way, that there are so many and so many consequences in the operation because he calculated: "Ah, you will sue me, but he can charge me a minimum of money, I care about his health if he loses his leg or worse. That's what I'm talking about. Great, but there's profit left. I put the rest of the difference in my pocket or the hospital cleans it up." That's how it goes. If people are unconscious and corrupt practices are allowed. This has direct consequences for people's lives. After all, these double criteria are unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, even at European level, where all strong Europe is constantly pursuing right-wing extremism as crazy. And left extremists break Naples, Paris, Hamburg, and so on. But they say they're anti-fascists. Who's crazy here now?Oh, my God! Once the same criteria are met for all, ladies and gentlemen, the rule of law will again apply and then Europe will once again have such a future. The way they do it now, it doesn't. What is our task in this House, however, is to demand, at least in Slovenia, unconditionally and without exception, that everything be treated in the same manner, on the same criteria and using the letter of the law, because this is guaranteed by the Slovenian Constitution. And that should be at the forefront of everyone today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Get Matjaž Hanžek and Mr. Jože Tanko ready. Here you go, Dr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you, Chairman. Someone used to say, if I quote: "Smallness and complexity of Slovenia are a systemic risk to corruption." I think our experience teaches us that this statement is just going to hold. Especially in the social segment, as well as in the economy where there is a lot of money flowing. Like the banks are one of those cases. Today, too, relations in the banking system have been mentioned several times in the previous paragraph, in the desire of some parties to establish a more effective pursuit of economic crime, banking crime, financial crime. The case of Iceland has also been exposed several times. Mr Stare will know very well the situation in Iceland, the delegation of the Ministry, I think you were four, also flew to Iceland to learn in detail. He had already said something about those situations, but he did not present something essential. They also hit Iceland with an argument that they couldn't. And also in Iceland, the first stage of the court ended up in the defense of bankers. With us, the story is even more tragic for two reasons. In Iceland, private banks run by funds where people from these funds were sitting in the supervisory boards and administrations, owners of these funds, and with us almost failed state banks, where they were sitting in the supervisory boards of supervisors appointed by the State, and consequently the administrations appointed by these supervisors. For example, with the President of the Management Board, the largest of these banks, the New Ljubljana Bank, was signed by Anton Zunič, President of the Supervisory Board, then also by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. And today, you will not believe, the Secretary of State in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. What was the statement? “The smallness and complexity of Slovenia is a systemic risk to corruption.” Second difference. The share of bad loans was approximately the same in Slovenia or Iceland. In Iceland 17.5%; in Slovenia slightly over 15% in the banking sector. Once again, the share of bad loans in Iceland was provided by private banks. However, the share of bad credits in Slovenia is, you will not believe, given by state banks. In private banks in foreign ownership, the share of bad loans was relatively low because they responded in time to the arrival of this crisis and did not use such banking practices as were used by Slovenian state banks. [[advertising from the hall]] And another difference was, in Iceland, as soon as this problem arose, this investigative committee, which counted, said and wrote at the peak of its activities, 103 people who worked only on this problem. 103 in a country of 400, 500,000 people. However, with us, the biggest dilemma and the biggest difficulty for my investigative committee was to get professional assistance, which is 3-5 people, because the simple Ministry of Finance did not want to give 150 000 euros to pay professional co-workers. Do we really have a system that works? Did the judiciary, the prosecution, the police form a special group that immediately started into the cake and began to investigate the problem? No, no, no. What did we do? We paid 5 billion euros and let things go the way they did. Mr Stare will know that in Iceland they immediately joined the phones of all bankers and those involved in banking crime; and many procedures are based on these hearings. Why didn't they join us on the phones of bankers from state banks? Why not? Whether it was believed that the bank hole came from a pure confusion or a clean case, knowing that in 2004-2009, a billion and a half euros went to tax havens each year. Count and you'll get about the same amount as the hole in our banking system. That money's gone somewhere. That money's somewhere. When we wanted to get specific information on the laptops in the investigative committee, and so on, do you know what the answer was? That this data was not collected before 2011 and that it is impossible to obtain specific data on how these flows went; by 2011. Those who did so before 2011 enjoy anonymity. I'd say we have a problem. And when the first stage of all proceedings in Iceland was established in the same way as the judiciary in our country, there was obviously some kind of fracture. In the same legislation – they did not change the legislation to make it easier to condemn – then, under the same legislation, only the highest level of work was done and, in two bloody cases, established a case law in order to carry out all procedures after the same hoof; even so far as those who carried out bank audits were sentenced to prison sentences there. They've gone so far. This is science fiction for us in Slovenia, but it should be. And also in Iceland, there were a number of legal inconsistencies and inadequacies about this issue, but they waited for the proceedings to take place, to condemn everything; and only in 2013, 2014 and 2015, attention, 2015, changed legislation. They did not bring unrest into the legislation and change it so that the judges could then invoke it – The change in legislation proves that we could not legislate with the old legislation. No, it is the task of the judiciary to carry out its task; and it is not yet. And as it now appears, I'm afraid it won't be if I read the current judicature of these few judgments that were in the first stage. And when I get information about what is going on with one of the cases of the Ljubljana mayor, I'm sorry, my trust in the judiciary is still losing; but by the minister or the government, I don't get that assurance – not as an opposition MP, but as a taxpayer – that justice will be satisfied. I paid, I contributed 2 000 500 euros to the resolution of the banking system, not at my own request. And I had nothing from this bank hole, only a loss, from the shares of the NKBM to the fact that I was in charge of the future; but I did not get assurances that justice would be judged by law and that justice would be served. But I'm the legislator here, and I can make a difference, so I can make a suggestion. What about other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who can only observe?Oh, my God! And we come up with the issue of corruption. “The smallness and complexity of Slovenia is a systemic risk to corruption.” And the ruling coalition rejects three purely life proposals prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party, and explain to me if this is normal. As far as banking corruption is concerned; if someone who is a member of the board advises the firm on how to take over management, and when it asks for credit for this management acquisition – I am specifically talking about the company Viator & Vector – all the services find that it works without capital, and they warn the administration not to go into this business. Then the counsellors on the credit committee support this loan, and his son employs Viator & Vector; forgive me, this is an exclusive example of corruption. Even when a brother sends his brother to a bank to get credit on behalf of the SCT, he makes a proposal for a credit committee and convinces others that this credit is valid. And then, along with his brother — he on his left, his brother on his right — signs a million - dollar loan, which then falls under a bad credit; I'm sorry, it's an exclusive example of corruption. This happened in 2007. It's been 10 years since then. One of these loans will be out of date, one of them will be out of date in one year. But here is the tragedy of talking about corruption risks; or how?Oh, my God! Or unworthy. Or an unworthy government to claim responsibility for failing to do enough. And I'm sorry, she hasn't done enough in the last three years, she hasn't done enough. The same man also said: "In Slovenia there is a real problem of political corruption. This leads to a negative link between politics and the economy; policies and private interests." I used to talk about things at the bank. Now let's say we come up with a KPK. And explain to me, Mr Stare, what makes this case different, which I will now describe to you. We have KPK presidents, members of the KPK leadership: Klemenčič, Kos, Praprotnik. Mr Praprotnik is preparing a report on the situation of poor credits in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, before the final report he is employed in Nova Ljubljanska Banka as the head of compliance, the head of the business compliance sector, i.e. the one who ensures that the bank operates with moral and ethical standards, as is the case with law and general discipline. And after determining what bad practices will be studied in the New Ljubljana Bank, he will call on someone other than the former KPK President, Mr Kos. And it was, according to what was said at the hearing of Mr Media's investigative commission, that he determined which transactions his predecessor or former President, the former President, Mr Kos, should review. And he reviewed 850 euros of the wealth of business itself, compared to others, for our behavior, huge: 300 000 euros, million euros, one million 200, three million. For our concepts are unimaginable, but according to the practice that took place in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, where individual loans were also worth 55 million, the euro was not returned – a wealth of things. Finally, after a year and a half, he received 850,000 euros and realized that it was not worth the bank's compensation. Was the money well spent? After all, we paid him because we paid the bank to keep her alive. Another KPK president, Mr Klemenčič, on the basis of a policy decision, I will say, on the basis of his report, the government of Janez Janša fell and became Prime Minister, Alenka Bratušek. Alenka Bratušek decided to rehabilitate the banking system a la Alenka Bratušek, the so-called home troika, and decided that Factor Bank and Probank would go into controlled liquidation, not bankruptcy, for example. And who does Factor Bank hire? The wife of Mr Klemenčič, the one who caused the fall of a former government and the establishment of the new government of Alenka Bratušek. And 900 thousand euros in contract with the Factor Bank. Excellent, bravo! Is this a challenge, but is this political corruption, politics, economy, specific structures and so on? I don't know. Looks like he's got some clues. Previously, Mr. Stara said: "The greatest danger is the quiet tolerance. He'd rather freeze than react.« Then why did you miss Mr. Zunič when he became Secretary of State in the Cabinet? Why didn't you make a public statement, why your minister didn't make a public statement and say, "That's no go," and that's not the case. Why didn't he say anything to Mark Jazbec when he became SDH chief? First and second, when he became head of Save Re, where SDH has a 25% share, the largest individual share and is also the most decisive factor in deciding on this? Why didn't you pick up? Why was this, as has already been said, a “quiet tolerance”. Or Janez Sai from the New Ljubljana Bank, when he becomes the head of the SDH business. There he participated in poor loans and here he was supposed to ensure that SDH's business is consistent. The UKC issues, however, when adopting a capital investment strategy where the strategy makes a big difference in an enterprise where the Director was formerly an economic minister. I'm sorry, at least an indication of corruption, a political influence if there's no other. Why didn't you pick up? At least I didn't hear you. The same person also said: «The specifics of Slovenia are grey eminences. Unlike some other transition countries in Slovenia, corruption is not a matter of survival or poverty; it is a matter of swallowing, puffing and power. We have a strong policy of partial interest.” Kimate. Kim, so am I. If this sentence were not true, IranNLBgate would not be possible if I mentioned only the last. That's exactly what this case is about. After all, let's go back to your boss, who was thoroughly familiar with the matter, but he let the matter slide somehow past him. You've gone after your colleague Irgle before if she misinterpreted the statement made by the President of the KPK. I will say this, for the last time, the Director of the NPU told everyone that Mr Klemenčič did not communicate this information in accordance with the Code or the way it is reported at the NPU. Excuse me, this is the person who became the justice minister, and this is the person whose secretary of state says the worst is that the greatest danger is the silent tolerance. If we are talking about these things, we must have uniform rules and they must apply to all. Not only do we use them when they come in handy on a political matter. As far as IranNLBgate is concerned, I was reviewing today – colleague Möderndorfer missed me here in the debate on the capital – I was downstairs in the quiet room where I read the documents submitted by Owl. Finally, we will find that in the beginning the initial reaction was appropriate, but then it is obvious from somewhere that things have been slightly compressed and that the procedures have stopped; unlike some other countries. More and more documents prove it. After we draw up the whole picture, I think it is time for all the services or bodies to prepare this report for the commission of inquiry by tomorrow, there will probably be a great deal of cover-up or overlap in individual cases. It's the same thing when we interrogated these bankers. I don't know, because it's probably a coincidence, but the Forum 21 bankers somehow didn't get anything, and they weren't even interrogated. Is that the buckle? Is there anything else? Have they not yet come to the conclusion that it is now possible for Forum 20 and will only be the next Forum 21? Are we at Forum 1 now? I don't know where we are. But, I'm sorry, we're not that far away. If we do not talk about it and do not talk about it in the National Assembly, we do not do our job. As a grand finale, the same person's statement: "We got the country almost 20 years ago, we looked at this building and decided it wasn't even that bad. That's why we just made it a new color. And today, we're being hit by mold from all angles. In Slovenia we did not have any serious judicial epilogue of punishing the abuse of public finances.” Is there anything different today? Is there anything different today? Really? How many serious closed court epilogues have we had to punish public finances? How many did we have? This statement is from the end of 2010, i.e. seven years. But the current minister said it. All the statements I made were made by the current Minister of Justice. Someone who was clearly, parallel to the state, small as a basis for corruption, danced from all angles of impact out; so someone who knew the system, who knew the practices in the banking system, was a minister for three years. And if you're so clear, it seems to you that the output is equivalent to what it should be after such an awareness of the situation when you step into such an important function. I don't think so. You know why I'm gonna say no? Because it was the government's position not to support these proposals in the conclusions we made, because obviously the government doesn't want to talk about it because it has nothing to show for it. Because if I had, – as my colleague Verbic said, which I highly appreciate as a member of Parliament who thinks with his own head – would embrace these proposals of conclusions. Hugs. Because if she had anything to show for it, it would be her show to steal it and spend it on her promotion. But since there's nothing to show for it, I'd rather say no. Mr Klemenčič said in that interview another statement, which I also very much agree: “The greatest enemy of corruption is transparency.” Is it transparent to reject such proposals as we have put forward in this proposal? Is it transparent for a committee of the National Assembly to study banking practices to reject the desire to obtain confidential evidence from banks? Is it transparent? Is it transparent to name someone at the head of SDH or somewhere else, or in the Cabinet of the President of the Government, who was previously directly present in the creation of the bank hole? I don't think so. If the government has a different view of this, it says a lot about the government. However, at least on average, Slovenia has a relatively healthy view of this and I think that we all feel the same, at least in a global way, so in this regard I think that the debate on corruption and this relationship between the economy, the elites, is even more important. Since I did not have an opportunity at the previous point because I was running out of time, I will still use time for one question that I hope Mr Stare will take a minute to answer. Minister Klemenčič said it would obviously be necessary to establish a specialised court to prosecute banking crime. We have a proposal from New Slovenia that the coalition rejects; but I have not heard a clear assurance throughout the debate that this court will be established as soon as possible. It was said he was getting ready, but I didn't hear him say anything. As a taxpayer, I expect the Secretary of State to give me a guarantee here at the meeting that a specialised court will be established and that he will tell me when I can expect this to happen. For one simple reason, because every day, when it's delayed by some more systematic approach to the prosecution of banking crime, every day when it's extended, some 10 bad loans are out of date. And I don't know how much longer we're going to take to make everyone out of the period before 2013. I hope that this will be before 2023, when even under the Penal Code the matter would be impregnable. In this respect, I think we still have a lot to talk about in the fight against corruption, and I think that honesty must be primarily of its own kind, of those who are in an executive position; not of rejecting what the opposition is preparing and proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. I'm watching this because I'm waiting for a session to be held. I understand that Dr. Logar fell heavily into the investigation and said in the meantime - my investigation group. I think she's still an investigator for the National Assembly. What if I've already stopped by and abused the rules of procedure a little bit. In particular, I would expect from those who rely on Christian values, because you still have time to talk about the corruption of your party and also about the corruption that you have created together, especially with the Social Democrats, in the four-hundred-year history of this society and the country. Somehow you have concluded with this, Commissioner Logar, that you should also look at your own species. And I hope that, if I wait, in this hour, I will hear that, too. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u231	This, of course, was a slight abuse. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Professor Trček, who is so fond of a variety of obstacles, could only somehow put together some logical combination for a procedural proposal. That wasn't it. Ladies and gentlemen, today, when it comes to the debate on the top issue, the debate on corruption, I would certainly expect a Justice Minister to be subject to this area, if not to a stronger government team on this side, because corruption concerns more departments, virtually all government action. However, it is clear that there is no particular interest in discussing cases of bad practices in the National Assembly, nor does the Government. This is evident from the fact that the government has apparently declared some marginal time — so much so that the Lord could not even let himself go into any serious debate, and the coalition has absolutely no interest in having any debate on the top of the topic, on the dearest topic of this country, at all. In doing so, we have proposed at this point in agenda item 3 of the Recommendation. The government has proposed a refusal. The coalition has accepted this, although individual debaters have supported the proposals we have proposed, but obviously not in the right place. Interestingly, however, the government, which says it has the material, has not provided this in response to our proposals and solutions, but has given an opinion that is diametrically opposite to what the government has prepared or should have prepared. Now understand who can. You find it hard to understand that the government has something, but it doesn't propose and it doesn't. It is also in some ways incomprehensible, and this is confirmed more from day to day when we have proposed certain solutions to the amendment of the Banking Act or the Bank of Slovenia Act; and there we have proposed certain disclosures in the case of State intervention or the national rehabilitation of banks. It is said that all those files that caused the bank's hole and demanded recovery would be exposed. If the transparency of the government is the one that is supposed to enable us to come to any reason at a meeting such as this, not only on investigative commissions or in closed sessions, then it would be a natural move, a purely natural move and a decision of the government. I think we should be very happy to support this. Unfortunately, all these things continue to happen hidden to the eyes. And apparently executive policy, this is what the government is saying, is assisting and supporting. It is difficult to agree that all these solutions or measures are necessary to make this happen and that nothing is done. Minister of Justice Klemenčič was formerly the head of the KPK. Before that, a colleague spoke in detail about a bank hole. When you were at the KPK – and Mr Stare was there – you were doing a forensic analysis of the banking system and you found that there were many things wrong in banks; and when the previous investigative commission requested a KPK report because it investigated it, the President of the current Senate, Klemenčič, vehemently rejected it. The Commission of Inquiry did not wish to submit this report. Mr, who has a mouthful of transparency, transparency, the introduction of the GRECO system into the field legislation, did not want to give the basic report that his service had made. Finding out or thinking that this was done in terms of a desire for transparency is irrelevant. Mr Klemenčič did so — if he did so at all — solely to cover themselves or to cover up the grey eminences of banking. That's why. I doubt this investigative committee has this report in its file. He doesn't have it. He's not here either. Minister Klemenčič is now a minister and decides on many things, but it is not too much to detect to do anything in this area in this regard. A few years ago, two years ago, there was also a press conference prepared by the investigating authorities. There they sat: Head of NPU Mr. Majhenič; Head of SDT Mr. Furlan and that Chief Investigator, Prosecutor Kozina. They said that at the New Ljubljana Bank, the porter would not let them in. Their task, as far as the investigation is concerned, ended with the security guard at Nova Ljubljanska Banka. If such a top team is unable to make some document in the New Ljubljana Bank, then I do not know what they are doing in this function. They come to the National Assembly, they come to the privates, they just couldn't come to the New Ljubljana Bank, and they say it publicly at the press conference. He's a strong security guard at the New Ljubljana Bank. Since the bank is state-owned anyway, I'm just asking what the government has done as a congregation. Did she pull the plug on the supervisors? Did those supervisors cancel the board? This administration has suspended those at the second, third level that block the delivery of the documentation. If the government and also the Minister of Justice had a sincere desire to actually get these documents, then they would do all of this; and by speedy procedure. The government assembly is convened in two minutes, you have a decision in two hours, you replace the supervisors because you are a 100 percent operator. If it doesn't go directly through SDH, whatever. You have all the options. None of this happened. What's even worse, these functions are followed by people who just translate from position to position, everyone at the top, just circle, once give credit, secondly control the transfer of documentation, execution of this, third time in another function in this network. Nothing's happening. And in the circular economy, you have circular personnel. And as long as one and the same person circulates after these functions, much of what you say in the government about preventing corruption will not happen or will not happen. I increasingly attach to what Mr Štefanec said at one of the meetings of the Mandate-Volution Commission – that the shoes of the previous Commission's anti-corruption leaders were in one way or another infected with the fungi of illegality. All those actions that did not happen at the time should, however, and in some specific cases we also warned in the National Assembly, there was no appropriate response from the KPK Senate led by Klemenčič and you were the head or director of one service. There was no response. None of the things we've asked to be identified in terms of transparency, transparency, reporting, control over individual deviant phenomena have happened. Everything was rejected in some grave way. It was not possible to obtain data on airline tickets, it was not possible to obtain data on Klemenčič's property, it rejected everything, it was not possible to obtain contracts on the operations of the members of the KPK Senate with the company owned by the majority of the state and so on. Nothing. A colleague earlier said how some processes are running, how it is chained in this part. Clearly, there is a price to be paid for being in this system of prevention in order for anything to happen in these audits and reviews. And you probably know that, too. Similar cases are taking place in the field of health care. There are also numerous examples of strange practices, illegal, corrupt practices. And I want to know what the government has done so far in this area. Did she take any action? Did it require any deviation from those who were involved in individual business in one way or another? Have the management of these institutions suspended any of the functions of those involved in these operations? None of this happened. Nothing happened in the area of health care, nothing in the area of banking, in the area of government overpowering, nothing and whatever we take into our hands. Now I ask whether what should be happening by the government, the executive branch, is some serious approach or not. In its 2010 annual report, the Anti-Corruption Commission outlined the definition of systemic corruption. There you have beautifully written that any failure or inaction that enables anyone to gain any benefit — and that corruption is exclusively a matter of doing so — is systematic corruption. Since you were a member of the KPK Senate that you reviewed this and did nothing in the cases mentioned here, then you were one of the main sources of systemic corruption. It is difficult to explain this to yourself differently if you know about certain acts and things that definitely represent corrupt acts and do not act, do not act by function; then you are the protector of systemic corruption. On the one hand, you pose in front of the cameras, yell, demand policy action; in marginal problems, in staged problems, or in cases where facts arise, when you have facts, when you have detected certain mistakes, do not act, you have not responded. That's what that means. Even now that you have a bunch of cases and do not act on official duty, you do the same. In all these cases, when it is found that certain persons have violated good conduct when they have participated in corruption and the government does not act to protect systemic corruption, it protects planned corruption. Since you have gotten rid of many different statements during this time, some extremely good quotes were also quoted by Comrade Logar, only this parallel between the statement of zero tolerance to corruption. Is there a zero tolerance for corruption in this government? Are your actions such that we can talk about zero tolerance for corruption? Are you the one who has proven in your current career that you have zero tolerance for corruption? In this government, are you the secretaries, ministers, Prime Minister of the Government who have such an attitude and act in this way? Are you? Are you in these functions the one you have, as Schoberne said, a silent tolerance for corruption? I think you have zero tolerance just in some cases, which are rich or you make them medium-sized. Where there's actually something where there's actually corruption, and there's just nothing you can see, you can't hear anything and you're not saying anything. And the biggest enemy of the government is he who warns of such deviant phenomena and acts. These are the main problems. It is interesting that it is also very weak in coalition debates or there are no such debates because someone would make a strong stand for measures to be taken. In recent times, some have been separated from their parliamentary groups and this has been supported by such proposals. They may regret not having done so earlier, at the beginning of their term of office, because they would have certainly changed since then. But the wagon has crawled far, there is much talk of names, even of those who do not act, we know much. We also know about some of the reasons why they do not act. But apparently now the thing is so far gone that certain things can only save elections. But I wonder what would have happened if we could put this thing on someone else. Mr. Trček generalised something about some coalition and some thirst between SDS and SD, again without a basis, just so that he got a minute for some excess. We have prepared material that gives examples of all the data. Sadly, the services of the National Assembly wiped that out. Mr Stare worked for the Senate, and this Senate also wrote some things about special cases and wrote names and surnames there. Now I also ask the services of the National Assembly whether confidentiality and confidentiality of data, names, for all are valid. Does it apply to all the same marriage? Do they apply to all the same bases? On the website of the KPK Senate, see what examples from the previous mandate of the KPK, where reports on special cases and controls with names and surnames are still published. And for which it is more obvious that even the head of the KPK Senate has lied, even in the National Assembly. However, when we prepare a report or a proposal for a hearing in the National Assembly, all matters simply turn black, we get such a proposal out. Is that right? Even if we put a newspaper article next to it, you'll black it out. In the media, two months before or for 2 months, certain names are rotated and they are all media-published and there is no problem; not on Del, not on Pop TV, not on RTV, not on TV3, not anywhere; but when we give the material for the hearing of the National Assembly, this is in terms of confidentiality of names. And this is now this case, next time we have a new case in interpolation and so on. If this is the case, then let the state authorities arrange this to be the same, so that there will be no particular case in the National Assembly, on the KPK they have their system, the case law has its system. With regard to all these procedures, it is obvious that nothing will happen in these investigative matters, at least in the greatest and most difficult cases. Apparently, there is some kind of passivity on the investigating bodies and later on in the judicial system. And we're obviously in a situation where things filter out. First of all, something is thrown out of the investigation phase. Next thing I know, it falls down on the NPU; the third falls on the State Attorney's Office, because the case is rejected, the fourth lies somewhere, and in the court it falls through these mills and nothing is penalised. And in fact, then one gets the feeling that we have two kinds. One legislation that is interpreted in two ways. One for the chosen, for the privileged, for the elite, they cannot in any case be accused, let alone convicted; and for the others, where a multitude of cases are systematically processed, a multitude of cases. And it accelerates one by one through the judicial system. The vast majority – at least a few of the cases are where people were convicted in mass – then ends up at one, second or third instance, because there was no evidence, but it was obvious that the structure was politically handled. And in this country, it is extremely difficult to avoid the fact that the institutions of the rule of law are used to account for part of the political spectrum or political work in that country. We have an extremely strange KPC response in previous mandates, which have been involved in various affairs, but they get rich jobs for the prize. We have a whole bunch of other cases, strange reactions sometimes also by information agents, the Ombudsman and so on. We have a problem with that. The biggest problem is that these cases are transcendent, media-exposed, exposed; but when things end, there is no media, there is no responsibility. Interestingly, even if any of the privileged groups were found to have violated the law, violated human rights, acted uneconomicly, passed the Public Procurement Act and so on, such a person could still be a minister. He is still a minister or even a minister; despite all the things we know and have known before he was proposed for office. And when you ask how it is; they say it is irreplaceable. The president of the National Assembly says that Klemenčič will not be sacrificed under any circumstances is too good for us. Fine. Yes, it is. He's done everything for you to be here where you are. I am sorry that this debate cannot be held today with the executive branch of power, why we have so many cases of such duplicity. Why are there rules, one treatment, one torture; for others who actually deserve it, and there is no processing, no proposals, no process, nothing? That's the answer, and here we're looking for an answer to these things. Members of the coalition would be very helpful if we had a clear idea of what honesty is, what justice is, what order is, what transparency is. This is how we hide ourselves or hide behind certain things; only that he is not with us, only that he will not be with us. And things are moving on. But the problem is bigger every day. With each day of non-action, the problem is greater. And don't worry, it'll probably be necessary soon, if the banks are still in our possession, a new rehabilitation. It'll come out of our pockets again, there'll be some government president who'll loosen up something else, what's left to cover these things. €600 million has been allocated to citizens to cover this bank hole in one part. 600 million euros, if not more, to those with subordinate bonds. Nothing. Tomorrow they'll come for the houses, the next day they'll pick up everything else, and that's how it's gonna end. And I guess that's when I don't know what's going to happen to Levi. That's when they'll get what they can. They're poor themselves, and they're on the other side of things. I expected you to support our recommendations, which are fully in line with matter, with the agenda item and are also very benevolent; with a very long deadline, the government could do so. But obviously, in this mandate, it is such that, in the area of persecution of organised crime and corruption, and at the highest level, nothing can be done. And that's why the situation is like that. I expect that, at least after the elections, a more reasonable political environment will be established, which will process and prepare solutions to bring things into the right place in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u233	Thank you very much. And last in the general discussion, Dr. Dragan Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, chairman. Initially, I could only touch myself if there is already talk of corruption in the KPK led by Mr Stefanec. I cannot get rid of the impression that the Slovenian Democratic Party is responding because Mr Stefanec is dealing with his predecessors in a rather brutal way. The KPK situation itself is not good. That's probably what we all know. KPK mainly deals with itself. Charges are coming to the public that the President is bullying employees, including his deputy, who does not allow her to perform her duties. The reputation of the KPK is very low, so this is part of the general situation when we are talking about the fight against corruption. And there is nothing I can do to avoid criticising the President of the State of Borut Pahor, who has often missed the opportunity to remain silent. Sometimes he gives some kind of adjectives in style – “Miss, this is what he shares with me!” But if a man expected to tell what his vision of the KPK was, what was his vision of the President's actions, which he had put there himself, it was silent, nothing. For two years now, no statement of this as if it were no problem, as if he were not responsible for this situation. That's as far as KPK is concerned. I think that this is one topic that you have avoided today in the sense that, while you have praised Mr Štefanec very much for his criticism of some of the shoes that are infected with fungi, but the other side of the story you want to keep quiet, as in your debates today; you have silenced the other side of the story. A lot of things have been said. Mr Logar said that honesty is needed in its own kind. Then he said the government had to be held accountable because it didn't do enough. Then Mr Tanko said: "With each day of non-action, the problem is greater." And that nothing is done in the pursuit of corruption. Then he wonders if in this government you have installed the right people. That deviant phenomena occur in this government in connection with corruption. Let us see what happened between 2004 and 2008, when Mr Janez Janša or the Slovenian Democratic Party were in power. At the time, it was the worst corruption. That's when the bank hole was dug. Mr Logar said honestly that was when the funds fled abroad. They are. They ran in your time. There was a wild dance of credit back then. Bank's credit activity increased to 30% year-on-year over the period 2005-2008. Credits grew five to six times faster than usual. Six billion Euros of bad loans have emerged during this period. Six billion. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u235	Well, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u236	Mr President, calm down, gentlemen, because they will then be able to respond if they want to. Six billion. But if it wasn't from the state, ask Mr. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Who's gonna talk here now?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u237	I don't know how to ask anything other than Slovenian, Mr Mahnic. Here you go, Dr. Matic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u238	At that time, you cleaned up the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. Your men were in those places. Even in Abanka, that's where you even replaced the board. You can read what your former minister's blog says in your government, Josette P. Damian. That's the data. What happened back then? Luka Koper, the Timer got 200 million euros. Intereuropa, Lochshin, 150 million. Istrabenz. You created the tycoons with these loans. All the banks were under the control of your people. After those tycoons fell, of course, they were bad loans. Six billion euros were created at the time, not later, not sooner; your time has come. Did you then fight corruption? What were you doing when you were in power? Did you stop this money from escaping abroad? No, you didn't. What else have you been up to? Mrs Irgle said that corruption was a problem because lustration had not been carried out. No old networks were dismantled. So why didn't you do the lustration? You've been in power for four years. Four years. Did you pass any lustration laws? You're not. Mr Janša is self-critical in your weekly Democracy, I think, once in December, he told me that his mistake was because he was naive and did not achieve that the material of the SDV would be transferred from the Owl to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what he said. About himself, that he's naive. Your leader. He says he's a sucker. He had twice the chance to do it. What happened the first time? Yeah, he set up two people. The first was Kosher, director of the Archives, and the second was Rupnik, director of the Owl. And what did you do? They signed an agreement that the archive material of the SDV was not available until 2044. Is that lustration? What about this second attempt by Mr Crnčec in 2012 to transfer the material of the SDV to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia to review what had happened to systemic corruption. Because it is clear that the SDV has led corruption abroad. She's the one who was doing this after all. Yes, Mr Dežman and Mr Črnčec have not been able to do that either. So did you perform the chandelier? You didn't. What did you do back then? Patrio's affair. Yeah, that's right. Otherwise, the Constitutional Court in Slovenia annulled this judgment, that is true, but the Austrian Supreme Court confirmed it. Mr Hans Wolfgang Riedl is still in prison in Austria because it is clearly established by those black documents, condemning that he gave Mr Jožet Z., who then brought 900 000 euros to the benefit of the ruling party under the leadership of Ivan J.; and therefore must be in prison. Isn't that corruption? The conviction is, read it to yourself, the Supreme Court in Austria, because two years ago you were jumping here when I read it to you. And you can read it again now. Let us see if you did anything at the time against corruption when you were in power; whether you were cultivating it. And now you mention Mr Zunič, Secretary of State, who has signed a contract with Mr Kramar. He signed in time, I think, until 2004 he was in NLB, because then you replaced him. The contract was based on the scope of the business. What happened to the scale of NLB's business during your government, but I said, he went wild with the wild dance of credits. That's the blog address that Jože P. Damian has. At that time, credits were used to do so, and accordingly, the prize was increased. The administration that you controlled didn't correct this contract. The normal return to NLB is 8%, and then it went wild. It went wild a few times. I told you how many times. Did you fight corruption? You're not. And now you're saying that the Dwarf is guilty of this million. Perhaps someone else did not correct it, overheating or allowing it. Those supervisors you set up were looking away. These loans were shared. Istrabenz, Luka Koper, Intereuropa – these are just more major companies that can be mentioned here. I'm not going to discuss this because you've talked a lot about political recruitment. As Rajko Janša sold a company to France Zavrlu for one million euros, whose sons are employed by European Members, you are very fond of “gas pipelines”, your children are there, then a partner of one son is with Mrs Mazej Kukovic. What about Mr. Vitoslav Türk? How's that? And, Mr. Peter Ješovnik, he was a supervisor at the NLB at the time that I was talking about. Did he do anything about it? He's your visible member. How did Mr Bernard Bristič, today's wannabe holocaust, get a job in Eles from Janez Janša's office. How Mr Andrej Vizjak ended up in HESS, I don't know. If we now want to read a list of your staff: Borut Friday – chief of staff, his brother – director and owner of the Lipica casino, father – friend and host of MPs and ministers. It doesn't make sense, gentlemen of the Slovenian Democratic Party, now you're pretending to be righteous. Here you accuse this government of doing nothing against corruption, and the GRECA report says that we are making progress in the fight against corruption, in adopting systemic laws. And you criticize this government to do nothing; and you wonder what will happen, that every day of non-action is even bigger, nothing is done in the pursuit of corruption. Mr Tanko expresses his wish that elections will take place as soon as possible, so that the right option will come to an end. Which option, yours?Oh, my God! Now I've given you a list of what you've done in your term or allowed. At the time when the Slovenian Democratic Party was the lead party, a bank hole of 6 billion was created during its reign. And now you come here and teach us how to fight corruption. Mr Logar, now he is a great researcher of the bank hole; and this is a kind of paradox to explore what has been most unearthed in your time. This debate, in this way as very vehement as you are dealing with it, may Mr Trček have reminded you a little bit in this direction to be a little self-critical. And I would invite you to listen to your colleague Logar, who said that honesty is needed in your own kind; be honest in your own kind. I believe that much of what you are saying is a problem in the area of corruption. Mr. Gorenak had some old newspapers and he read something the SD did and so on. That's probably true. We don't have a problem with that. We have been in this political space since 2014 and now for what this government has done in three years, you are attacking it not to do anything. I don't want to be overprotective to this government, maybe it hasn't done enough, or I could have done more. That's right. Corruption is a problem that will always remain in human civilization because it's always been here. There's been corruption ever since they invented the money. She needs to be fought, but not by pointing her finger at a government that doesn't have a dozen of those sins back when your government was. You've done nothing against corruption. At the time you encouraged overheating the economy, then you encouraged lending through banks, you had control over them, and you didn't stop them. So once again, when it comes to discussing this, you need to have about the same vat and remember what you were doing yourself; and slightly lower your tone even when speaking to a government representative. That screaming and reading of what Mr Secretary of State was doing in the role of someone else, at the time he was on the KPK or where he had already been, and what he did was wrong; I don't know if that fits me. He's here today in another role. You can ask him for now. But what you are now affording is a display of some kind of theatre game, an innocent and impeccable SDS reminds you of the corruption of the current government. And there's a buried hole of 6 billion. Gentlemen, I believe that citizens do not have such a short memory of silverfish. Maybe you're playing this card so they won't remember your heroics and achievements. But I don't think that's gonna work; voters can't be underestimated by such cheap tricks. Mr Gorenak, when you read old newspapers back when you read some black documents, remember the cases of Istrabenz, Luka Koper, Intereuropa, Mr Riedle from Austria, where he carried that money, he writes clearly in the judgment, as you can read it. He did not take to Croatia or Malaysia; he carried to Slovenia. It also says who he was carrying. I really recommend a little more self-criticism. And once again, I fully agree with Ambassador Logar when he said, "Honesty in its own kind is needed." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the future, which saddens me very much in this National Assembly, it is that those who preside over these sessions do not remind speakers when they lie. The money from Patrie never ended up in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Look not only at the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but also at the judgment of the Supreme Court. The second thing, whether Mr Matić deliberately at this time because of such and other matters he is lying, or he does not know the difference between the debt of John Novak as a natural person, Janez Novak as a legal person or the debt of the State. It is also a problem that this goes to the public on the air. And yes, at the time of the 2004-2008 mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party had one problem. She was too fair, and she didn't do the lustration. Because if I had made a chandelier, Mr Kramar would not have completed his mandate in the NLB in any way, and Mr Marko Kranjec would have responded in the same way as Mr Bavčar, he would have been in prison for a long time because he was doing what he should not have done, overheating the economy because he shared loans. Madam President, I have already reminded all the Presidents several times in this mandate that it is right to hold a debate to share their private thoughts; but if we are in the temple of democracy, it is wrong for people to use lies to discredit political opponents. Therefore, I ask that in the future among such speeches, which are highly questionable in nature, remind the speaker that he is lying not in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u241	Mr. Lisec, you don't think I'm going to correct Members on every sentence, what he says and what he doesn't say. But now you've missed it completely. The messenger says what he thinks; he may consciously or unconsciously, well, accurately or not. But it's a controversy. And Mr Matić has been so embroiled with you as you were before on the other side. It's just a matter of taste now. And I can tell that he was talking about the subject of corruption. Procedurally, Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. I'm listening to this whole thing. People here are asking me why I don't speak. Because I'm not registered. Procedurally, it seems to me that it has been a very long time for you to give someone a warning about the abuse of the procedure. But let's be honest. Everything you're reading SMC and me, I learned from you. You are here a school example of such practices. Mr Matić is not the most sympathetic Member of mine personally, but I hope he doesn't blame me. There are quite a few ladies among the MPs in the National Assembly who are much more and more sympathetic to me; but what Mr Matić said holds. Except for the financial work where it does not separate different loans, but you know, a huge amount of Slovenian pacifier privatisation will turn to yours and my children. My procedural proposal is that you take the powers you have, Mr President, and that you also punish abuses of the business issue, including this, of course. This applies to all of us 90 and to you and to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u243	So for everything. Okay. It was essentially a debate, it was an abuse, I have nothing to add. A replica? There can't be a replica on the procedure, Mr. Matić. Procedurally, please. I hope there's no abuse.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u244	Mr President, I suggest you tell Mr Lisc that he can read the Austrian judgment in the Patria case, which is legally binding; at the MMC on 11 June 2015. There he can clearly see that it says: The Court’s decision is justified on eight sides. The names of the companies involved and the names of the companies were only mentioned with the initials, indicating the functions and names of the persons involved. According to the Supreme Court’s judgment, “DI Hans R, then blackened, driven by a desire for profit, decided that by bribing the relevant Slovenian policy, i.e. by transferring EUR 900 000 to Jožet Z as a mediator of Ivan J, blackened, would affect the tendering conditions in favour of P, blackened.” That's part of the verdict. It further states, however, that in order to tailor the invitation to tender for the benefit of Patria, they finally agreed at the meeting on 1 September 2005. Then I quote: "In return for Dr. Jožet Z, the payment of EUR 900 000 was blackened, and the share of the "overpayment of the local partner" as an additional financial benefit for the ruling party Ivan J was blacked out." Here, this is from the verdict, published on 11 June 2015 at MMC. But you can probably get an original verdict and study it. Supreme Court in Austria. This is my procedural proposal because he said I was lying. I don't know what his valuable judgment of lying to me in the motion of procedure is, because apparently he's lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u245	That was an abuse, too. But I'm going to stop this way of doing things. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer in the final work. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Head of the Modern Centre Party Group, I think you've been watching your Member; so have I. And I think we both saw the same thing. Each Member shall be responsible for his or her words and for his or her psychophysical condition. But let's just leave it at that. It's a matter of you, it's a matter of every Member. Let's go in one order. Before, someone, I think, was Secretary of State, told me not to talk about people who aren't here. Now the MP is talking about people who are dead. It's mean, it's rude, it's the lowest thing to say about your way of speaking about a person who's dead and can't defend himself. As far as Austrian judgments are concerned, the Austrian judgment does not apply in the territory of Slovenia. Slovenian judgments apply in the territory of Slovenia. And if the Austrians wrote anything that someone gave money to someone for some purpose that you've just read from an alleged Austrian judgment, I don't care. I know that the Slovenian Democratic Party has not received any money, nor has its President, any money. And this was found by the Slovenian Court of Justice, including the Supreme Court. Let's move on. You were talking about six billion. Despite your doctorate in history – I think you have it from history – read some articles from the economy. During the period 2004-2008, the gross indebtedness of the country from 26 % fell to 22 % of GDP. And for the first time in the history of Slovenia we have created a plus in the state budget. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, as confirmed by this Parliament. It's hard, but it is. But when you talk about loans, we need to know something else. Credit doesn't come from the government. You have the wrong idea about this. Maybe this government, I don't know that now. I don't know, but the government doesn't give credit. Credits are given by the bank and the bank’s management, set by those people who have the same blood as you — the left. Even in private banks and also in NLB. Mr. Kramar was not appointed by us, but by your political co-conspirators. Maybe it's our naivety that we haven't replaced him through the control world. Maybe that's right. And the 6 billion you're talking about can't be attributed to the government, but to the management of a bank that we didn't set up. Mr. Stefanec says he's bullying the employees. I think that lady is bullying him because I've known her for a very long time; and in any job she was in elementary school, she was fighting in every single one of them dead. So it's the exact same story that's going on, and it's probably not him, it's ma'am. Your Member has deceived the President of the State if he does not respond. You have a business opportunity to invite him here and he will explain how he feels about the KPK. You have a business opportunity, invite him here and let him know what he thinks about KPK's work. You say we praise Mr. Stephen. I didn't listen to any praise, but I did hear some facts, namely that he decided to do so, so on, so on. That's not praise, that's facts. You were talking about this government, but I don't know what it's all about, how ethical it is, this story. I don't remember our government stealing from top state officials. And we had problems with the dihtung. But they didn't know whether they took it or didn't take it; or what it was. Yeah, it's in your governments, it wasn't in our governments, and we didn't have that kind of trouble. Between 2004 and 2008, we were dealing with Patria. I don't know if that's what this is about. [[…]] I can think and conclude, but I'm not going to say it in public, but Patricia exploded on September 1, 2008. So between 2004 and 2008, we couldn't deal with Patricia in any way. But the treaty was signed by your coalition partner, Mr Erjavec, who was in the coalition with us at the time. You were talking about jobs and some of my old papers that still hold. My point was to the KPK and today's State Secretary, then the investigator, only to deal with the employment of Janez Janša's daughter and not these. That was my point, and I wanted to get an answer to the question why he didn't deal with these and why he was only dealing with them; now he can't answer anymore. I think it's gonna be a time-share. Indeed, each of us must be primarily responsible for his actions, his own words, his own actions. But lying here is obviously allowed, at least for some dedicated people. Once again, 6 billion, I don't even know about the 6 billion hole, because, as I know, this hole with DUTB was all that was necessary for it to work, that this story was worth about 5 billion. Mr Matić sees the 6 billion created between 2004 and 2008, he said. But once again, the banks are lending. Banks are lending credits, not to the Prime Minister and not to the Minister. You've read the employment of Mr. Viszak, Brščič. Do you think we shouldn't get a job?Oh, my God! Aren't you going to get a job after this term? You will no longer be a Member, that is clear. But do you think you won't get a job? Will you become a corrupt worker? Then why shouldn't Mr. Brščič be employed? Why shouldn't we get a job? Be a little realistic about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u247	Dr. Dragan Matić, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u248	Mr. Gorenak, you misunderstood me. I didn't insult any dead man, but I only read the verdict of the Austrian Supreme Court. So much so we can understand each other here. I was merely stating the facts that are written in the judgment; I have not offended any of them, so you can keep these observations to yourself. Now I'm reading what you're asking is that your government didn't share loans. Of course she didn't share them directly. And I'll read to you what Jože P. Damian, who has been in your government for a while. He writes: “Janša’s government, including in 2005, completely overfed the supervisory councils of the three largest state-owned banks and set up its tested party staff there and replaced the administration in Abanka. For example, where did Igor Marinšek, who was chairman of the NLB Supervisory Board, and Peter Ješovnik, Vice-President of the NLB Supervisory Board, look? Where did supervisors from the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia in the NKBM and Abank supervisory councils look? Where? It's simple. They were looking away. Why? Because the government, as owner, did not want the dance to stop." We're talking about a loan dance. Your former minister is answering what you're asking me what your government has to do with this. She let this happen. In this regard, Mr. Gorenak, you doubt my psychophysical condition, there is no problem, but we can order an alcotest out if you're clicking on it. Let's see, we'll both blow who's gonna piss more. There's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u249	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u250	I'm not gonna blow anything, I know that. As far as the next one is concerned, you were talking about the late Dr. Baggage. Don't balance me now, don't look for a mouse hole to get out because you can't. You were talking about a dead person. That's one thing. And the other thing when you mention this Minister Damian, you know, he wrote in 2003 that he was the only savior of this country – I think he was the one who wrote this – John Janša; then he came to his government, and he was in room 212 when we interrogated him, at three o'clock in the afternoon he told the Members – and now stop, and I'm going to beg. That's what it looked like, I'm sorry. And then he started hitting the other side. But once again, the director of the NLB, when the biggest hole was created, was Mr Kramar, who was not set by us. Supervisory councils, as far as I know, don't sign credit contracts, they're signed by directors. Let's end at this point, and it'll probably be a lot better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u251	Thank you very much. We have not yet spent the time to discuss. As I conclude that there is still a desire, I will give a time-sharing and the application shall also apply to the representative of the applicant and the representative of the Government. Please sign up for the debate. It's available for five minutes. Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u252	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. I sincerely hope that this matter will be brought to a relatively close soon, as we have a Committee on Internal Affairs, public administration and local self-government. I listened with interest to these dialogues with the interesting content of the various colleagues of this National Assembly. And I must admit that I have a modest assessment that for the ever-increasing number of Members of this National Assembly there are very large experts in the area of the so-called banking and management business, especially in the knowledge of how credits are approved; and in particular the basic purpose of what to do in the final phase if recovery does not occur. And I would suggest, a little ghastly then, that any government that will continue to face the management of state property through SDH in one way or another, that a number of Members should be involved in this hearing or in some way in these processes. I comment primarily on this because it is not as homogeneous as it may be in these debates. Because the proverb is that after the battle it can be a general, as well as a variety of comments, regardless of who was in power at the time, who had the opportunity to appoint different staffs as the role of the Assembly in so-called business decisions, annual reports and staffing. The fact is that I believe, regardless of who was in power, that when they call certain persons into the city — even if I speak for myself or my group of Members — I may not go beyond that thinking when we are and when it is called — you are in good faith and conviction, regardless of perhaps some so-called gray individual zones, that, despite all that, those individuals who then trust this city are aware of the importance of being a national asset manager. Many things may have happened in the past, but it is simple that one hopes that this knowledge is somewhat different in individuals over time. Regrettably, then, it may be that decisions are made in such cases or when they occur. Since I still have some time at my disposal, I will also touch on the KPC, which has also been exposed in these discussions. I am also joining all those debaters, so that with the current composition or leadership of the KPC we simply cannot be satisfied. The professional, lazi public and users simply cannot accept the fact that in the KPK, where it is set up to run a Senate committee, individual members of the Senate do not work at all; let alone that there is a dialogue between them. We know that such procedures are really very sensitive themes, not only of professional complexity, but they interfere with the rights of individuals, and they can happen very quickly to be harmful. And we can say that it's almost irreparable when it comes to individual decisions. And if the current leadership of the KPC is unaware of this, then I think it is right that we also make it very clear in this national assembly that this cannot go on indefinitely. However, if it is such legislation that there is almost no mechanism for some extraordinary decisions, even if I may call it that - the most important body in these branches of government, this is the legislative branch of government, then I can ask myself at the time of the composition of the National Assembly, when smart heads have projected how to establish the KP compared to foreign practice, there has simply been a mistake. And there are things that make a difference. I expect that there will be as little room for this kind of debate, mutual dialogue and accounting as possible in this national assembly; but how corruption will be resolved today or tomorrow. And we are really going to do this, and we are aware of the Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to point out that the answers that Mr Tanko had expected on specific matters are simply not possible and could not be given because in its opinion the Government has also made it clear that the specific issues mentioned in the material will not be expressed by the Government not only in the protection of personal data, but also in the interest of the proceedings before other national authorities, even before the courts. With regard to the issue of what the government has done at a horizontal level in terms of preventing corruption, given the time limit, I would only like to draw attention to the report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted by 7. 6. 2017, on the implementation of horizontal measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of anti-corruption over the last two years, from 2015 to 2017. And in section 2, paragraph 6, the health sector to which the measures have been taken is also indicated. At the same time, 14 days ago, the government adopted a new two-year programme 2017–2018; the same for the implementation of horizontal measures to prevent corruption, enhance transparency and limit conflicts of interest. This is published on the government’s website and can be read. As to the question of the question of Mr Logar as regards the specialised court. I can only assure you that the Ministry of Justice and the Government are determined to organise and establish this – a specialised central court. This is also reflected and confirmed by the current budget 2017–2018, where it is foreseen on our items under the 1.5m-euro integral; this is also stated in the national development programme adopted by that government. However, it is true that this budget is now changing, but I think this will be accepted after the discussions so far. It was also in the National Assembly as a commitment to the government to make this happen, and a proposal for a law on courts has already been written. I said at the outset at the previous point, you were not even in the professional coordination of the Supreme Court. I assume that after parliamentary holidays and government holidays, so in the fall, it will have to come to the table of Members; and then it will be your decision. I can't guarantee you'll accept it now. We have the same experience with the CAP, because you see how these things run, but it's a democracy that there will be no misunderstanding. I accept it, and I disagree with a lot of things, but I accept and respect them. As far as the expectation of document transmission is concerned, I will not go into controversy based on false facts. Commissioner Tanko said that we have made a forensic inquiry into the banking system, but we did not wish to report as the KPK to Parliament. This report was published in the form of an assessment of the situation in the banking system in the Republic of Slovenia in 2011, 2012. I don't remember exactly. There was a report and it's been online ever since. The substrate for this report has been waived in the vast majority of cases to the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. More than 40 cases, as mentioned. And it's public. But what was rejected was rejected because of our respect for laws. If Parliamentarians or you, with all due respect, want to receive data and documents from independent state authorities to which the KPC belongs, then it is necessary to amend Article 14 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which provides for the debtors who are required to provide documents, data and all relevant information necessary for the work of the investigative commissions. There are explicitly released independent state authorities, but they are a judicial, executive branch of government. In short, it's a tool in your hands. Expecting us to act unlawfully is what we resist. We didn't do it for the sake of respect for the law. But we could get these documents from the police if we wanted to, but here we may already be in an area that is very good, implicit and explicit, mentioned by the honourable Member Dr. Trcek, whether the question is whether someone does not know what the microscope is or does not want to use it. That depends. I'm not going to prejudge what's going on in this case. As far as the results of the last piece are concerned. I could only complement the honourable Member of Matić and also Mr Trček. Not only is it that in that period when it was created, if we are now at a bank hole, the biggest hole that nothing has been done on this subject, but I am very proud of what this government has done in three years. Including the fact that now, as I said, there are 90 defendants, 36 defendants in two years. However, she has done much to prevent corruption from being investigated at all. The so-called Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity (ZNOJF) sought to abolish the KPK, but the Constitutional Court prevented it. Government of Mr Janez Janša [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr Darko Star. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u256	Thank you very much. And I'd listen to this, and then I'd beg because it was an interesting last part. What was our goal today? Our goal was clear. To talk about corruption, the state of corruption in this country and to recommend two or three measures to the government in this area. And in this way make this country comparable to Europe; because we are now with the Balkans. Only the Balkans, Moldova and no one in Europe have such a KPC. That was our goal. I am sorry that Mr Verbich will not be able to vote. Why? Because we are not going to vote because your Members have already made a box on the committee. It's a problem. Nevertheless, I think that today's debate and this item on the agenda are specific. I now have a serious proposal for a secretary-general to conclude. For the first time, consider what is going on with this personal data. I think that I have made it clear to you today that it is nonsense for you to do so in professional services; or that the professional services suggest this to the President of the National Assembly, if that is the case. However, the president of the National Assembly may have demanded so. And that's possible. We can't disclose information about secrets that the newspapers have published a long time ago. Just remember that we will not be working in this national assembly of such nonsense as has happened today. To mention the information that has been made public, however, is indeed allowed and not to happen as it happened. Secondly, I must say that I am very pleased that, for the first time in 10 years, I have seen that a leading man of the National Assembly — the Vice-President, the President, this time — has stood up as it should be. Whether it is left, right, opposition or coalition Members; the Member is a Member. Everyone else in the state administration can perform such important functions, but they are not Members. You can get all the other functions in any way you want. Some of you can even ask them to take over. And the jobs of ministers, state secretaries, are exactly like that. However, the Member must have a certain number of people, and a certain number of votes, wherever it belongs. That is why we must establish in this National Assembly a corrective relationship between all civil servants and all Members. And today there was such an attempt. I hope you won't be an ex tomorrow, because that would be the worst thing. The President of the National Assembly, in my view, must also take the example of such a work, in order to protect the integrity of each Member. Everyone, no matter what political option they have. And to conclude, maybe this. Mr Secretary of State, I'm sorry, because you're saying you can't talk about information that's classified by the President of the National Assembly. That's funny! I wanted to get very clear answers from you, why in your previous role you did not treat these acts as acts. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know if you did. Now you're telling me you did, because you would have told me. Have you considered these jobs, which I have mentioned today, as you have dealt with, say, the employment of our President's daughter? Because there was everything in the papers, and everything was terrible there, while I didn't see anything to see you dealing with these people. However, it would be good to have this information, because in the end it is nothing more than a balanced, proper and fair functioning of the state authorities, to which the KPK also belongs. I'm also not convinced by the experience I've mentioned that this level of correctness would exist. To conclude, Slovenia needs the Commission to prevent corruption without the current executive powers. Just like everyone or most European countries do. So a committee that will play a preventive advisory role; not what is happening today. The countries that have it have a lower level of corruption than we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-07-13-SDZ7-Redna-32.ana.u257	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. We will decide on the draft decision in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, on Friday, in the framework of the votes. I hereby interrupt the 24th item of the agenda and also the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, which we shall continue tomorrow. Members and members of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Locally Self-Government have been informed that a meeting of the Committee will begin in 15 minutes, i.e. at 22.20 p.m. in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you very much. But I'll stay the night!
