ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 47th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček from 3 p.m., Mrs. Marinka Levičar to 12 p.m., Mrs. Vesna Vervega, Mrs. Iva Dimic between 2 p.m. and 17 p.m., Mrs. Ljudmila Novak from 4 p.m., Mrs. Eva Irgl, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 2 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Han from 12.30 to 17 p.m. Franc Trček by 4 p.m., Matjaž Hanžek from 2 p.m. to 1 p.m., Mr. Marko Ferluga, Mr. Marijan Dolinšek by 1 p.m., Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc by 5 p.m., Mr. Ivan Škodnik by 5 p.m., mag. Dušan Verbič, Mr Peter Wilfan, Mr Tomaž Gantar, Dr. László Göncz at 16:00, Mr. Jan Mahnic by 12 noon, Mr. Zvonko Lah between 11.30 and 17:00, Mr. Jožef Horvat between 16 and 22:00, mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Uroš Prikl from 13:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, Minister of Health, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, and other representatives of the Government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of agenda 47 of the Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 8 September 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 61 votes in favour, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 47th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, it is for the Department of Health's defence of the work and responsibility for the Lady's dear Kolar Celarc's health. The Interpellation was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec's representative for further explanation of the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and, of course, all those who monitor this session through TV screens! Just a year ago, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we filed our first intervention against the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc. Some today, one year after the first interpolation, the second interpolation, some will say it's too late. Secondly, this Minister – that is Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc – should never be Minister of Health. Thirdly, it is better for the Minister to step down on her own, because the increases, the deepening of the health crisis in our country will not be passed on. However, it is difficult to find anyone who would say that Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc is doing well and that she is the right person at this ministry. Well, the Prime Minister of the Government, of course, stood very firm for this minister a year ago and defended her at press conferences, and today it is very quiet. At the same time, I must say, it is very interesting that the text of the interpretation is in the protected drawer of the National Assembly. This means that it is not accessible to the public, which is why we in the Slovenian Democratic Party – because of the decision of the President of the National Assembly to interpellate, the text of the interpretation closes to the public – have also protested. In fact, it is a matter of publishing two names in the text itself, namely the names of Mr Smiljić and Dr. Mazić, who are very well known to the public from the UKC Ljubljana affair. And these names are used today or in all media. Well, in the text of interpolation is not allowed. But anyway, those who wanted to, of course, read the text of the interpretation, and I hope that at least the Members have read it. I have to say that before I started my term, somehow I only knew health care from a patient's point of view; that means waiting in long lines, asking you to come in line when it belongs to you under the patient's rights. I've got to say, I thought some of them were exaggerating. It was still known that doctors are white; this is from old parents, czech, doctors are untouchable. Today, after more than three years of monitoring the health system and I have spoken, I think that with almost all actors in the health system, I believe and I know that Slovenian citizens do not deserve a health system that allows within themselves an ever-increasing increase in corruption, where waiting periods are prolonged, the departure of young doctors abroad and also of patients is accelerating, and there is an increasing number of humanitarian actions, where money is being raised for those who want to have a normal health treatment. So it is definitely not normal for patients to wait for first examinations longer than is permissible under the Patient Rights Act, at least, and that corruption in health has become more widespread across all borders and now with certain laws and measures, Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc supports or legalises this corruption. And finally, doctors are not white gods, as one of the doctors on the social network wrote: “To be a doctor today is nothing divine or very hard work.” And I think we're all well aware of that. Before the elections, the Mir Cerar Party promised, under the facade of the new face, that it would change the lives of people in Slovenia, so that citizens would feel their changes through the prosperity they will receive under their authority. When Mira Cerar’s new face was no longer serving them, they changed their name to the Modern Centre Party and the President of the Government said: “Our Government has a vision of Slovenian health in the future. We need to ensure better care, and we are aware that we have many good doctors and all other health workers. The Minister is in contact with them at all levels, and I have already visited so many hospitals and health centres that I know what condition he is in.” Well, the Minister's contact with health care institutions could tell you a lot of things. Of course, the Minister is very interested in painting the openings of health homes and events that mean a certain destination; when a problem arises, the Minister is nowhere to be found. Remember when the Minister in UKC Ljubljana was – when she supported two new directors, one of whom finished the piano very quickly and the other is actually on this path. But it was not, for example, when certain particles were detected in the tube at the Oncology Institute, which also affected patients’ health. There was no summer when doctors and patients were in UKC Ljubljana without air conditioning. Then there's no minister when there's this problem in different hospitals. It is difficult to say that Mira Cerar was anywhere; I did not see in the media that he had so many visits to hospitals and health centres to know the state of our health system. A year ago at the first interpolation he said: “We have affairs, corruption and a long waiting line, so we also need public support to improve our health care.” On this site, we tell the President of the Government and the Minister that they had public support. Today, no more, and therefore this intervention, which is the intervention of the Minister of Health for co-responsibility in the area of corruption in health care, the responsibility to extend the irregular situation at the Pediatric Clinic, the responsibility for ineffective resolution of the problem of waiting periods, the responsibility for poor business and the increasing indebtedness of public health institutions and responsibilities due to legislative proposals in the field of health, which is contrary to Slovenian and European legislation and which undermines Slovenian health. Therefore, the coalition has promised improvements in public health, strengthening public health, taking into account financial sustainability, with a view to preserving the rights of as full a compulsory health insurance as possible, and a clearer separation of public and private health activities. Today, therefore, it is the first, which is why the Minister is interoperable, to be responsible for non-action in the field of corruption in the health sector. In her defense, when dealing with corruption in the health sector, the Minister said that, as a minister, she strongly insisted on the principle of zero tolerance to corruption, so in the work of the Ministry and working groups and commissions, in which external experts – in particular health professionals – are also involved – have introduced a system for reporting possible or actual conflicts of interest and for excluding those individuals from cooperation or decision-making. Well, let's see how these words are kept by the ministers on a single case that's spoken enough; I can list some more for you, maybe later in the debate. This is the case with Mr Petr Požun; he sits on the Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection and signs the opinions of this Commission, because he is, of course, the President of this Commission. Mr. Peter Požun is the business director of the Gynaecological Clinic of Ljubljana. Mr Peter Požun is engaged by the Ministry for 985 hours to advise on the preparation and implementation of amended health legislation. And Mr Peter Požun is also the head of the SMC Health Committee, which is also a member of the Minister. So, Mr Peter Požun is a multiple personality; he is the party's superior minister of health, as he provides political basis for the writing of laws in the framework of the SMC. It is on the payroll of the Ministry of Health, where it writes laws according to its previous, of course, client instructions. And he's a state councilman who gives opinions about the law he wrote before. So, I'm asking myself here - and of course the Minister and the President of the Government - did you then report a possible or actual conflict of interest? This is just one example of how they respect what they say about preventing corruption and conflicts of interest at the Ministry of Health and at the largest coalition party. The second issue is, of course, a programme of measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption in the period 2015-2016, which, of course, speaks zero tolerance for corruption. This programme was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in January 2015. In this anti-corruption programme, the Minister considers or says that the biggest measure is centralising public health procurement. So, two years of joint procurement, so we'll all know what's going on. However, as these public health contracts go on, they are a fine example, I will say again what the Minister repeatedly repeats in the public eye, i.e. diapers and gloves and needles and so on. These tenders have been published – common public procurements in 2015, one 2016, for medicines 2015 and these common public procurements miraculously cannot be arranged by the Minister and the Ministry of Public Administration in order to reach the conclusion, that is to say, of the contracts. There are no results yet, although the Minister has already said in 2016 that they have saved 20% depending on today's situation and so on. However, public procurement has not yet been completed. It is, however, in the final stage or completed, let’s say, a general public contract for vascular resistors. Madam Minister or her representatives had a press conference last week, where they said that this joint public procurement was a good example of how joint public procurement could be carried out very quickly, efficiently and so on, that the expert committee prepared such criteria that there was no comment, no revision, nothing. But there's something coming up. There, the expert commission sets the highest possible price for vein support in certain sets, I think it was 6, and suppliers give a higher price than the criterion in the common public contract itself, i.e. the highest price. And what did the Ministry declare right after the opening of the contracts? That we will negotiate with these suppliers. I must say that this is already the first mistake that has been made and has shown how the Ministry does not really know what they have written in the criteria themselves – that the criteria are the highest price. Well, that. When we were at the press conference, and it happened, I must say that one of the biggest things I will say is that the Ministry of Health, or only the Minister, was not there, was Mr Glajar. In view of how the government should react in these cases and how the government should therefore proceed below, it did not give the ministry, but the doctor, who is a member of the expert commission, gave how the Government should react. There we heard the answer then to the government or to the supplement, if, yes, we will do everything, so we will also report suppliers to manufacturers not to respect European prices, etc. and that the Minister has been engaged in bilateral discussions with other countries in a similar case, which are overpaid and which are not subject to the European market, since he has been in the Ministry; therefore, it is discussed bilaterally to take action. If the Minister really had these conversations with other countries, if she knew that Slovenia, according to the words put forward there, was not a European market, then I think it was time for the Minister to report to the European Commission long ago. We can learn from this that, as the ministry has been said, it has been studying material overpayment for three or two years, but it has done absolutely nothing. So it protects the suppliers themselves and overpayments of material and thus corruption in health care. There was a lot done on the Health Investigation Commission, where there were a lot of witnesses who were interviewed, where it proved or showed that the hospitals were inconvenient, that the material was being overpaid, etc., so that I wouldn't have to mention so much in this place, because then I could say more in the debate. However, the Ministry only responds by common public procurement, which appears or is clear that they are not successful. However, it does not respond to statements before the commission of inquiry and is essentially being carried out in ignorance, since the Minister is not responsible for these matters – for overpayment of material and for all these matters. They built a database, a register of prices for material, but that's all. Hospitals after this register did not lower prices. Hospitals still pay the same as before. So, the Ministry of Action is only on paper, and in reality or in reality, the matter remains different. So the measures taken in this area are only sand in public's eyes, when we're doing something, and in fact things are running back exactly the same as before. And of course due to overpayment of material, this is one part, there is also a greater debt in public health institutions. We also acknowledge the responsibility of ministers for poor business and the increasing indebtedness of public health institutions. Last year, hospitals had 57 million more money compared to 2015 – 4% – but last year the hospital also increased its expenditure by 90 million compared to 2015. At the end of 2016, hospitals had more than €36 million losses. With 1. 1. 2017 health service prices decreased by 2,16 and this also means an increase in outstanding outstanding liabilities, which are at 31 January 2017. 3. 2017 amounted to EUR 125.8 million. Madam Minister, in your interpretation at the end, you state that our data is based on rumors or our interpretation on rumors, on false data. This is the information provided by the ZZS on the Health Committee. And the biggest reasons for making things worse are from salary, promotion 1. 12. 2015, promotions 1. 12. 2016, raise pay grade 1. 9. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is 44 million a year, which must be earmarked for salaries and 88 million in two years, which means that two thirds of the losses in 2015, 2016 were actually incurred by you, Minister. You've released austerity measures. I understand they're doctors, nurses, etc. Probably underpaid, but, Minister, when you signed with the Fides syndicate on the release of austerity measures at the time, you said that this signature of the agreement would have no impact on the finances or on any financial implications. You said you'd find the money for this and you found it clearly in the intervention law, where you'll go 136 million to hospitals that are up to 31. 12. have shown excess expenditure on revenue. You will set up recovery committees where representatives who have created losses will do bad business, and now they will advise and remedy the losses they have made themselves. I think it's clear to everyone that one of these cases has already happened, that was in banks. And Mr Glajar said at the press conference that we are not a banana republic. Obviously, we have a banana ministry; if you put the loser in the Sanitation Committees, then I almost have no second word for it. But we've heard that before. So, Mr Kopač, the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana said at the time of last year's loss that if we were to rehabilitate banks, the country should also remedy health care. Mr Kopač, who has been appointed CEO of the UKC with all your support, including by painting before entering the UKC, has created a loss in one year – from 6 million at the end of 2015 to 25 million at the end of 2016. And according to the latest data, so in the middle of 2017, a little less than 100 million. And the Ministry doesn't respond to any warnings. I think there have been quite a few meetings in the National Assembly on this subject. Nothing at all, he says we're going to recover, it's not that bad, the losses are manageable, and so on. You waited for a debt to be raised in UKC Ljubljana 100 million, you waited for debts to be collected in other hospitals and now suppliers demand money. In fact, suppliers are also blackmailing hospitals if there's no money, there's no supply. And now this intervention law, i.e. 136 million, without the hospitals preparing the rehabilitation programmes in advance – you have even refused twice in UKC Ljubljana. I remember that when I proposed the rehabilitation of one public institution or asked the municipality for money, they first told me: prepare a program on how things will go, show that there will be no additional losses and then there will be money here. 136 million without further action by the Ministry of Health; this means that the prices of services will increase. To give any action, instructions to the public authorities, nothing. 136 million, which may also constitute unlawful State aid under European law. In fact, health activity in Slovenia is considered an economic activity under the current legislation, because hospitals and other health service providers provide their services in return for payment either directly or through their insurance. And in these cases – this is our health system, this is how it works, this is an economic activity – Article 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Commission, which speaks of unlawful state aid. Yesterday on the committee, this was rejected, if we were to frighten people and that we were, I don't know, not using the word, but the Minister of Finance, I think she listened very well and also wondered what the point was, or whether it would be better to wait for the European Union's answers on State aid not allowed. However, the second measure, which is due to negative conditions, is the merger of public institutions. On her nose, the minister wanted to merge Topolšica with Celje Hospital. Both hospitals in large debts, one more, one less. The idea was, and I've already said this, the economy of Mira Cerar seems to be just minus and minus is plus in mathematics, but here's just not going to work. Because if you combine a public institution that has a minus, with another that also deals with business problems, it is very difficult to get a positive – of course, if you don't give new, fresh money with intervention law, which is also why the merger of public institutions will be again without financial structures, without substantive proposals, without therefore, the Committee found that when we considered this, the simple ministry does not have an answer, what are the financial and substantive structures, what are the consequences for employees, what are the consequences for these public institutions. [[…]] [[…]] So, such measures, the ad hoc measures introduced by the Minister or he wants to introduce them into our health system, of course, also exacerbate the crisis in the country, but of course in the health system itself. And the money you are going to – i.e. 136 million – spend on the rehabilitation of hospitals in terms of the payment of outstanding claims, this money will not shorten any kind of waiting period, so no patient will be in the first place, so it will not bring what you promise – the reduction of waiting periods. That is why, Minister, you are responsible for the ineffective resolution of the waiting age problem. The government adopted two measures; first in 2016, when it committed $7.9 million to reduce waiting periods and then in April of this year, when it committed 36 million for 2017 and 2018 to reduce waiting periods. This money and these measures should therefore bring about a reduction in waiting periods, Madam Minister, but the results are completely different than you want to show them. In 2016 the realisation of this project was 74%, in UKC Ljubljana 19% and the realisation after half a year was 20%. Some of the public hospitals to which you have allocated the maximum EDP, i.e. the implementation of a one-time supplementary programme, are unable to perform any of the operations. And, of course, there comes again such ad hoc solutions and the transfer of these EDPs to concessionaires or private people, which upsets the public, but about this later. On day 1. 8. In 2017, 224 thousand 420 patients were inadmissible; 22% were inadmissible. Compared with September 2014 – August 2017, this is during your term of office, the number of waiting has increased by 25% and the number of waiting for more than 52%. As we look at data from the NIJ for July, in July, the number of specialist outpatients waiting for the first review was increased by 15% more than June and in August by 19% more than July. So, the fact that they're waiting for a first review for an unacceptable length of time increases from month to month. The same applies to health services, where the percentage of those who are waiting is also increasing. So the realization of a program or a project to shorten waiting periods is essentially money for what is then not realized or realized in a very small percentage, and it is for my notions in some cases, roughly, that money has been thrown away. So, the minister allows a disorderly, inoperable system, while allowing public washing of doctors’ dirty laundry and hospital management; of course, this is an example of the Paediatric Clinic — one of the cases. So, the responsibility for prolonging the irregular state at the Pediatrics Clinic, Minister, is also due to interpretation. In response, the Minister said that she had been monitoring this area since 2012. You won't believe it before she became Minister, this minister, Milojka Kolar Celarc, worked with the Paediatric Clinic, and until now there is no solution to her mandate. All that is is that it requires the resignation of the Director-General, the Director-General, to intervene – as has been said in public by the Director-General – in the decisions of the hospital's management itself, while telling Members and the public that it has no jurisdiction, since this is the responsibility of the Institute's Council. In the world of the institution, I do not know how many times, the Government has six representatives, and through the Council of the Institute, the Minister could have acted differently, so that this activity or this area could be resolved more quickly. It is unacceptable that dirty laundry should be washed on the shoulders of the youngest patients in public and that the Minister essentially permits this and does not respond to the international report given to the public during her term of office. It now blames UKC Ljubljana for failing to implement the first two points of the national centre strategy, has not established and has not signed contracts with foreign centres. I don't know what you've been waiting for, Minister, for so long. In fact, this date for the UKC was December 2016, and you have a very long reaction time, because then you waited more than half a year to create a program world through the Institute that is supposed to solve it. So, you allow things to happen at the pediatric clinic that shouldn't happen. And, of course, Minister, you are also responsible for legislation that is recognised, that is to say, which is late, and the legislation that is contrary, I will say, with European standards or European legislation. And in the legislation you adopt under the urgent procedure, legislation where you are opposed by the majority of the professional public or by the entire professional public – say the legislation on patient rights, where you are in an article which stipulates that waiting periods, waiting periods and so on, so on, at the level of urgency of expected waiting periods, at the level of urgency that I will not list everything – you have withdrawn this article, so there will be no more public data on waiting numbers. So the public will not see how many are waiting and, of course, you will also be able to give EDP even more untransparently. Not to talk about e-ordering that doesn't work. I'll tell you a few more cases today. So these are one of the things. The second is the Health Act, where you limit concessionaires who are still part of public health in Slovenia. The pharmacy law, where the representative of the Pharmacy Chamber tells you he won't respect the law, because if he does, he won't be in the pharmacy. Then the Medical Service Act, where you have accelerated the departure of young doctors abroad and young people will no longer be providers of health care as before — or not so fast. So Milojka Kolar Celarc claims that health was not the priority of any government so far, so no ministers so far, no government. According to her words in 23 years, so much damage has been done that this minister needs as many as two mandates to remedy the damage. I hope or I know you won't be a two-man minister. This mandate is too long to date, and this mandate has already done almost more damage than the previous ministers in 23 years. Madam Minister, citizens and citizens feel your work on their own, feel a crisis in health care on their own skin, and in the text of the interpretation we have shown with arguments and figures, and we will also today, with numbers, reinforce that our claims therefore also hold them. And the text of the interpolation is not based on rumors and populist statements; the populist statements, Madam Minister, are you saying that our health system is very good, that it works well and that patients know this and that quality is at the highest possible level. I believe, as well as the citizens, that quality can be even higher and that our health system can be much better. Of course with another minister in this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u3	You received the reply of the Minister of Health to the interpolation on 4 August 2017. I give the floor to Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, to explain the written reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues from the Government, distinguished Members and Members, media representatives, citizens and citizens! I will summarize the key arguments with which I rejected on 65 pages all five points of interpolation. The government confirmed them and forwarded them to the National Assembly in July, together with a clear position that I am rejecting the interpretation because of the absence of evidence. I will start with two decisions in this National Assembly, because it is these two best to show how things are dynamic in Slovenian medicine and what we have done with last year's and the interpretation. On 12 July this year, you adopted a new Law on Medical Services, which provides for measures for the education and employment of young doctors. The law allows young doctors to be employed and already gain work experience prior to the approval of the specialisation. So far, many young doctors have been waiting for the approval of the specialization at the Employment Institute. After the new, they will have the possibility of one-year training during the waiting period, half of which will already be counted as specialisation. The law also regulates a different way of calling for specialisations, which will better monitor the needs of citizens and future employers, and this also means staff conditions for reducing waiting lines in health care. The second decision took place on 1 September. At that time, you adopted key amendments to the amendment of two laws on patient rights and health care. I hope you'll accept them next week. The New Law on Patient Rights, including responsible treatment of patients, helps to shorten waiting periods and requires operators to regulate waiting lists. The Health Act finally regulates transparent award of concessions on the basis of calls for proposals and the provision of health services to workers outside the home public institution. The law also regulates the status of middle nurses in shared jobs after 13 years. Last Friday, the Government adopted a draft law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. I'm glad the Health Committee adopted it yesterday. When you decide on all these three laws in a few days, you will be justifiably proud to confirm the important changes that improve the Slovenian public health system. Before that, however, you will have to assess whether the reasons for the interpellation candidates are at least as weighted and reasoned as our work has been done. I'm saying they didn't. I will also prove this in detail in the next five points. First time. Interpellators tell me that I am responsible for non-action in the field of corruption in health care. They argue that there are no concrete measures by the Ministry to combat corruption, and they try to justify this by providing the State Assembly investigative commission. I completely reject the obvious. I insist on the principle of zero tolerance for corruption in the management of the ministry and the day-to-day work with my colleagues, as well as in constant contact with directors. That's what I'm doing. The laws and regulations do not allow me to investigate and prosecute individual doctors and other persons involved simply because of the suspicion of corruption. This shall be the responsibility of the law enforcement and management authorities of the public health institutions responsible for the functioning of the public health institution. However, in my daily political orientations, supervision and work, the issuance of regulations and acts, I can carefully take care of zero tolerance. And that's what I do every day. For projects, especially in the preparation of professional materials involving external health professionals, we have introduced a system for reporting possible or actual conflicts of interest and for excluding these individuals from cooperation or decision-making. The risks of corruption are also reduced by systemic procurement measures. The public is aware of the outcome of the general public procurement of the veins and of the measures envisaged for them. Let me stress that we have not made any mistakes in the procurement process. On the website of the Ministry of Public Administration, translations of technical specifications and calculations were published and on the website of the European portal links for the transfer of files with translations and general descriptions of all sections in English. This is particularly true because the interpellations suggest that the descriptions of the individual sets were only in the Slovenian language, which should make it seem as if the Ministry does not want foreign suppliers. The law adopted by this National Assembly explicitly stipulates that the procurement procedure takes place in the Slovenian language. In the specific case of vein resistors, the technical specifications were also published in English on the website of the Ministry of Public Administration. Therefore, the submissions made by the applicants are not realistic. Obviously, a concerted demonstration of the alleged power of the suppliers of the veins will not dissuade us from the successful practice of joint procurement, whose efficiency and effectiveness we have already demonstrated in the case of emergency centres. In the procurement of equipment for seven emergency centres, we saved 30 per cent of the money, as much as 3.3 million out of 8.9 million. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Public Administration, which conducts procurement procedures, carry out joint public procurement of medicines and medical devices. This reduces corruption risks and ensures comparable quality of services for patients and the economic use and use of public funds. In February this year, the Ministry of Health, together with the Association of Health Care Services, established a base called Intravizor. This allows you to see prices for medicines and devices purchased by the authorities. It is the duty of the hospitals to check the prices achieved in the base before carrying out the public procurement procedure. Secondly, the promoters of the interpretation attribute to me responsibility for extending the irregular state at the Pediatric Clinic UKC Ljubljana. As Minister of Health in the framework of my powers, I am taking steps to regulate irregular relationships at the Pediatric Clinic of UKC Ljubljana, which the public has already heard about 10 years ago. The argument made by the interpellation motioners that I had submitted the report to the law enforcement authorities, although I had never really acted, was entirely unfounded. Since this is a series of measures, in my written reply I chronologically cite the Ministry's responses to this report. And there were a lot of them. In the text of the response to interpolation, you can learn a number of developments since then, so once again I should say that, as Minister, in accordance with my powers and through the competent services, I have been involved in the resolution of the complex situation in Ljubljana's children's heart surgery and cardiology. Believe me, it is not self-evident that the design world I have appointed is run by the top heart surgeon Prof. Dr. Igor Gregorič; he met a week ago and very effectively began his work. As Minister of Health, in order to ensure the professionalism of the work of doctors and the safety of patient care, I have ordered several extraordinary professional consultations. Let me stress that I insist on mutual respect for patients and health workers, top service and expertise, but also respectable human and collegiate relations between employees. The lack of confidence of parents and other citizens in the health system has, instead of a professional debate on the causes and solutions, unnecessarily deepened the lack of confidence of parents and other citizens in the health system as a whole. Doctors and their professional associations are primarily responsible for the reputation and trust of the medical profession. In the end, the Code of Medical Deontology also explicitly instructs them. Third time. The Signatories of Interpellation tell me that I am responsible for the ineffective resolution of the waiting period problem. Believe me, I understand that every day of waiting is too much for the patient, but I must point out that we are Slovenians among the rare who can immediately get to a personal doctor, pediatrician and gynecologist. It's perfectly taken care of by anyone who needs emergency medical attention. In Slovenia, a permanent rescue service for trained teams and emergency medical care is provided. This includes mountain rescue services, helicopter emergency services, 24-hour on-call services in all health centres covering the whole country and 11 emergency centres. All magnetic resonance checks have also been paid since January 2016. Checks and procedures for the treatment of cancer continue to be paid. Slovenia, like all EU countries, has been facing long waiting periods for a longer period of time, so I strongly reject the proposaler's claim that I am guilty of the long-term problem. The waiting period is a multi-layered problem and a consequence of various factors: from population ageing, extended life expectancy to increased demand for health services, increased travel and possibilities for new treatments. Certainly we were not assisted by a doctor’s statement in reducing waiting periods and even less by a call from the PRACTIK union. UM for higher references to secondary level. For us waiting periods are mainly due to the economic crisis and outdated legislation. We've already changed some of it, and there's something you'll have the chance to accept next week. The reduction of waiting periods remains a priority of my work and the priority of this government. The fact is that people are waiting, but it is also a fact that many people would not have to wait that long if they took advantage of the possibility of doing health care in another hospital or other specialist. A total of 60% of those waiting over the permissible waiting period were informed of this possibility but rejected. Since some refer to reports published by the NIJ, I must stress: from the monthly reports on waiting periods – also for the month of July 2017 – it is clear that all health services in Slovenia can be performed at the time provided by the doctor on their travel. In addition, the number of patients who have been sent to a specialist over the last two years has increased by 13.8%. This means 168 thousand 241 more patients. And let me tell you, at this time, doctors have treated 75 thousand 556 patients more. The results of the re-examination of the actual number of waiting shows that more than 20 000 out of 49 thousand 500 waiting over the permitted waiting period would not have wanted or could not have done if we offered them this service tomorrow. 23% of patients wanted a later period, 16% asked for a specific doctor, 9% could not perform a medical condition at all, and 6% were given a later period for medical reasons. In addition to the two one-time programmes to reduce waiting periods last year and this year, system measures will also help to reduce waiting times: a comprehensive e-Health system with e-Reception, e-Travel, e-Procurement, e-Consultation. The e-Travel and e-Procurement systems are fully and fully operational as the share of e-Travels already reaches 90%. I remember what they read to us at the time of the introduction of the e-Recept. And now both patients and health workers are satisfied. Let me quote private concessionary Mrs. Pediatrics Helena Mole, who said on TV Slovenia this April: “I have to commend the introduction of e-Recept. The system works perfectly, there were very few birth spasms and we are very pleased with the patients. It has been shown that there can be solid solutions that do not take extra time.” Fourth time. The Signatories of Interpellation acknowledge my responsibilities for poor business and the increasing indebtedness of public health institutions. I'm also rejecting this whole thing. On the contrary. Through the efforts of the entire government, we are saving the difficult financial situation of Slovenian health care, which has lost an average of € 194 million over the last eight years due to austerity measures. By analysing the causes of government deficits, we have proven that saving over the last eight years has cost more than a billion euros to health care. At the same time, all rights remain the same. The medicine and the methods of treatment have advanced, the latest expensive drugs have been introduced, all health care providers have performed all the services. No patient was left without medical care. For EUR 580 million services have been provided which have not been paid in the last seven years. As I said in the introduction, the Government approved a proposal a few days ago to provide funds to cover the consequences of inadequate austerity measures in the past. In a few days you'll have the opportunity to accept it. An amount of €136.24 million will be provided to hospitals this year. At the same time, the Government has also made a commitment to develop measures by 15 November which will allow for an increase in the prices of health services in 2018, thus ensuring adequate operating conditions for healthcare providers. However, we will achieve a systemic long-term solution through the new Health and Insurance Act and the Long-term Care Act, which we will align with the Ministry of Finance by the end of this month. Fifth. The Signatories of Interpellation read me proposals for legislation in the field of health, which is supposed to be contrary to Slovenian and European legislation and which is intended to weaken Slovenian health. Surprisingly, this observation mainly goes to the content of laws and regulations that deal directly or indirectly with public and private issues in the field of health. Members of Parliament you have adopted the National Health Plan 2016-2025, which we called “Common for the Society of Health”. This is not an empty paper, this is the direction of this national council, which binds the government. You have confirmed in it that you want public, accessible and solidarity health care. Most attention and criticism are given to amendments to the Health Activity Act, which lays down the conditions for the award of medical concessions and limits public and private health care, and to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which eliminates supplementary health insurance until now. Finally, they do not hide that they were led by a fundamental disagreement with the concept of maintaining and strengthening all, not only rich, affordable health care. The adoption of applicants for the privatisation of health care in Slovenia is contrary to the majority opinion of citizens and citizens. Two thirds of people support a public, solidarity and accessible health system. I fully reject the fact that I do not comply with the coalition agreement and the tasks set out in the Government's normative plans for each year; the details are in writing. The laws that you will decide in a few days, along with those that you have already confirmed in the National Assembly, constitute the urgent changes in health care. Changes benefit patients and health care providers, not individual stakeholders and capital. Your Honor! Slovenian public health is good. In some European countries, such as Austria, a personal physician is only available a few days a week. In England, the nurse examines the patient and decides if a doctor is needed. In Sweden, Norway, Belgium, Luxembourg, they must pay the doctor for the examination. In Sweden, they also have to pay €17 for the recipe. Also in recent years, Sweden has been discussing too many waiting periods, including for cancer patients. Waiting times are a problem everywhere, as we respond too slowly to people’s new needs with both staff and money. Some maliciously conceal that in Slovenia we can immediately get specialists in family medicine, pediatricians and gynecologists in basic health care. However, emergency medical units in the field and top experts in the 11 emergency centres provide emergency care. If you listen to Slovenians who live and work abroad, they boast about earnings, working conditions, career opportunities, but everyone in turn warns that there is no such access to health care. Her Excellency the Ambassador of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland also said at the opening of the medical equipment fair in Gornja Radgona that we have an excellent health system. The OECD indicators also confirm this. Interpellators throughout the text did not present any single argument to justify violating the oath I had given since the appointment. I respect the constitutional order with all my strength, work for the welfare of the Slovenes and Slovenes, and follow my conscience. Ladies and gentlemen, we have demonstrated with the reasoned answers that the findings in the interpretation do not hold, so I fully and firmly reject it. I suggest that you do not support interpolation, but, by rejecting it, also on this occasion, define yourself as a quality, public and solidarity Slovenian health care, which is my first task and my first priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister, and so far the Prime Minister is present! It's hard to speak on such a defense of interpolation. But another interpolation within one year, no matter what, is proof that the situation in our health system is certainly very worrying. That's not just politics. That's what people say on the street. In fact, for over a decade, problems have accumulated. There have been many problems for 20 years, but there are no real solutions. And because there is no solution, citizens lose patience, justifiably, and also trust in our health system. People actually feel deceived, because for the money they pay in the health system – and this money is not little, as some say, the Slovenian health system is not free – they do not get it for this money because they should get it. And our system is actually obsolete. In the existing health system, no one feels so good. Neither users nor providers of health services. In doing so, I would like to point out that we have excellent and internationally recognized experts, doctors, heart and sacrifice staff, as well as other staff, who because of their poor organisation and very poor relationships cannot do their job well. But see, Madam Minister, as we have done in the past many times, the purpose of New Slovenia is not to find the culprits for the situation that has arisen in the health system. And let me also say that it is certainly not just you who is responsible for the situation, but the issue has been going on for a longer period of time. But you are responsible for the fact that in the last three years virtually nothing has happened to improve the system so that people can finally get a human health system. Even more; things have deteriorated dramatically over the past three years. And the situation in the Slovenian health system is on the verge of an alarming situation. Why is New Slovenia going to be the minister's rescue? For the first time, it is because the Minister does not control the department and does not control the situation in the entire healthcare system. There are obvious anomalies going on, so we're going to be interpolating, because we want to end long waiting species after all, we want to end corruption because we want a transparent health system and because we want good and affordable public health, which citizens unfortunately don't have today. Because we want competitiveness in the Slovenian health system, Madam Minister, and because we also want a positive business of public health institutions. And why do we have to do the interpolation? Also because apparently the Minister has neither the support nor the full support of all the parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition. And if the Minister survives this interpretation, the honourable fellow Member and fellow Members, as well as the representatives of the Government, it will no longer be the responsibility of the Minister for the situation in the Slovenian healthcare system, but of all those who support the Minister. A well-intentioned proposal, then, to all of you here in the National Assembly. And an increasing responsibility is also being assumed by the President of the Government. The Coalition Treaty states that coalition partners will establish a transparent and uniform public procurement system in the health sector and achieve effective procurement of medicines, medical devices and other equipment for medical purposes, for the public publication of purchase prices, for inclusion and for the direct knowledge of the competent institutions through public procurement procedures. To this end, they should be uniform, standardised materials, equipment and procedures for the acquisition, use and maintenance of materials, medicines, equipment and IT systems. However, the common public procurement of medicines and devices has not appeared to be effective in the fight against corruption. I'm going to start right with corruption and the public procurement system. In the case of the joint public procurement of medicines for Slovenian hospitals, which has lasted for almost two years, there have been six audit procedures. In fact, the concept of joint procurement has not been properly set out. It doesn't control the actual state, that's the first time. And secondly, there is no information support for the operation of this system. Thus, the State does not control prices or quantities. What happened to this public procurement, which was initiated two years ago? Only 30% of the orders are delivered and 70% are not. Thus, this contract has not yet been fully implemented after two years. Only 30 % is performed. As a result, users – hospitals – still make bilateral arrangements, these negotiations are still under way outside the public procurement system. And you, Minister, with this system, the central public procurement system, are so boasting; in fact, you did it for only 30%, and everything else is just like it was in the past. This inefficiency may also result in a higher cost of medicines. Come in. Corruption. In New Slovenia, we believe that systemic corruption in the health system has not been sufficiently pursued in the past and is not being pursued sufficiently today and, as a result, these bad practices at various levels of our health system have become completely acceptable and normal and so this corruption has in fact taken root most throughout the country into our health system. That hurts. Corruption, particularly corruption in health care, is the most common way to take advantage of it. Why? For the money originally intended for the treatment of our children, patients, disappears into the private pockets of individuals. I wonder what happened to us to let this happen, that it's acceptable, that it's part of the job. I received an answer from the Minister at the beginning of her term of office when the Minister appointed these people to be members of our healthcare system. No, these are not stakeholders in our health system, certainly not. The fact is that the risk of health corruption also depends on whether or not someone has a monopoly over a particular service. And it is difficult to correctly assess how much public money from the health system is being created by corruption. And although there are no official numbers; every euro, as I have already said, every euro that the health system loses because of corruption is a damage to the state or our common property. And from the Minister of Health, who belongs to the Government, who has come forward with his own opposition to corruption — so-called ethics and morality — and has announced the introduction of ethical action in politics and so on, we would expect a clear and feasible plan to prosecute corruption in health immediately. But we have not seen this plan before in this House. And once again, Slovenian taxpayers deserve a health system that will be fair and at the same time effective. Madam Minister, there is also little action to improve the health system. And because our system is actually collapsing into dust and because of inaction, unfortunately, there are also more and more deaths in our health system. Because the health system doesn't work the way it should. A report on the professional supervision of the UKC Ljubljana acute cardiosurgery programme 2007-2014, prepared by the International Commission, shows that there have been many unnecessary complications and even deaths as a result of professional failures in the UKC. As stated in the report, – also due to treatment contrary to medical doctrine – the safety of children’s heart patients has been seriously compromised in the UKC. You know, this is about kids. And the Members, who have small children – I am among them – that your child has a mistake, a congenital mistake in the heart, would trust in UKC Ljubljana after such media coverage, what happens there, according to these findings of the expert commissions? Each of us would repeatedly consider whether to treat a child in a system where there are unregulated situations, where relationships are not the right relationships, because bad relationships also cause people, children, to die. And that can happen to any of us. But the first person responsible in this country is the Minister, and the one who has to act if this is happening. And after the outbreak of this affair with child heart surgery, family members of small patients have filed 11 claims and 5 lawsuits so far. Look, this is about serious things. It's about the health of our youngest. The publication of the report on international supervision of paediatric cardiac surgery also undermined the reputation of Ljubljana's Clinical Center and after the death of a 14-year-old in the Department of Cardiosurgery of the Pediatric Clinic of UKC last September focused on UKC again, both professional and lay public attention. So, what happened? Internal surveillance has again shown that the death of a 14-year-old is due to inadequate treatment of the patient and the latter due to irregular conditions at the Paediatric Clinic. Cross-accounting, bad relations, irregularity of the situation, systemic mismatches have also resulted in another attempt to resolve Rajka Kenda, the professional director of the Paediatric Clinic, but again failed. I understand a medical error, that's perfectly logical. But if children die of disorderly conditions, then it's a systemic shamparia, which is unacceptable. Madam Minister, waiting years; your priority, you said. But let's see. You know, since last year's interpolation, the waiting years in our health care have increased. And if I'm up to something of my priority, I'm going to direct all my strength to reduce the waiting periods, reduce them, not increase them. I understand that fighting waiting times can be your priority, I can understand, but in this fight you are ineffective. Let's see. In August, 19 000,863 people were waiting for a first review of the permissible period, 42% more than last year. Is that the priority you were talking about? I hope not. There has also been an increase in waiting too long for operations and diagnostic services. August 2017 to July 2017, Minister, by 6 %. Or let's take a look at this battle to shorten the waiting years. First operational checks. knee arthroscopy, fast, waiting 120 days, regular 540 days. hip arthroscopy, fast 94, regular 720. Frame 110 under fast, watch out, under fast, regular 272. And spinal surgery under fast 278 days, under regular 572. This is data, this is statistics that you can and must believe, because it's official statistics that you operate on yourself. This is why we claim in New Slovenia that we do not fight waiting periods as we should. And waiting periods are also in line with existing legislation, although they are also enshrined in the Patient Rights Act, even in various regulations, but because of waiting periods, patients' rights to adequate treatment are actually violated. Undoubtedly, we agree that the waiting periods are due to the lack of financial resources, poor organisation of work, inadequate legislation, incorrect and inconsistent management of waiting lists, which, of course, allows patients to be placed on more than one list, as well as inadequate and inadequate control over the management of waiting lists by the CFSP. But, Minister, the first ones responsible for changing these things are you. And these things haven't changed in three years, but they've even gotten worse. The extension of waiting periods is also attributed to the ageing of the population, demographic change, the emergence of new diseases. The extension of waiting periods, according to the minister, is expected to be influenced by better awareness of patients and also by the requirement for quality treatment. In order to extend the waiting period, that is, according to you, Madam Minister, doctors of primary health should also be responsible. Really? eThe order costing EUR 25 million still does not work as it should and still does not work as expected by users in particular. Funding. The key challenge in stabilizing our health system in the coming years will certainly be how to provide sufficient funding to ensure that our health system is stable. The country's demographic challenges and economic situation require, above all, answers from the Minister, but not just promises. In 2016, 22 public health institutions operated with losses; they created 40.5 million euros in losses. They do business not only in hospitals but also in 13 and 6 health homes and in 3 other health institutions. The UKC Ljubljana, Maribor, Oncology Institute and the 7 largest Slovenian hospitals also operated with a loss. The UKC Ljubljana recorded the biggest loss in the purchase of the material. Interesting, isn't it? At yesterday's meeting of the Health Committee, the Government presented a proposal for a law on intervention measures to ensure the financial stability of public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, which is really written very quickly, that is to say really interventional. And the intervention was also dealt with on yesterday's committee itself. All this to consolidate the position of our Minister of Health in particular. But what do we stress in New Slovenia when we adopt this intervention law? See, the adoption of the intervention law on the situation in Slovenian health care or the operation of health institutions will not solve it. In fact, we are throwing over 100 million euros of money there — without structural measures — where this hole was created, with the same people in the background, with the same people. Even the people you have appointed to be responsible during your term of office. If we want this to stop happening, we need to change the way we work. Prepare a plan to remedy losses, prevent corruption and finally create a good working environment in hospitals without internal misunderstandings that reflect the quality of work with patients. Madam Secretary, one more thing. About the consistency of your work. With all due respect, but in your work you are not consistent and there is also a legitimate violation of the law itself. At your initiative, the National Assembly of February of last year adopted the so-called anti-smoking law — one of the strictest in Europe — and was also supported by Members of New Slovenia. But then what happens next? On your election to the post of Minister, you swore that you would, I quote, “respect the constitutional order”. This means that you will act in accordance with the Constitution and that you will act legally. However, Article 48(2) of the anti-tobacco Act already provides that the Minister shall issue regulations or regulations and other sub-legislative acts for the implementation of legal provisions no later than six months after the entry into force of this Act. It's 15 acts. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, in fact, these 15 acts under the law give too much power to the Minister and that is also highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service. But Madam Minister, the law has imposed on you, not an individual Member, the law requires you to adopt 15 sub-legislative acts between 11 March and 11 September, and you have not adopted them. You're breaking the law with this. You can actually see the tree in front of you, and the woods are nowhere. And someone who breaks the law, the law, can't be a minister for sure. And that's not the only law you haven't been consistent with. Let me also recall the example of the Pharmacy Act; there should also be a lot of sub-laws that you haven't adopted yet. Madam Minister with staff and coalition! The analysis of the health system commissioned by the Ministry of Health also showed that the question of how to finance our health system should be addressed and that we need to set up models for paying the health system. The analysis we've been paying taxpayers, which we've been betting on, that's what he's saying. And despite the guidelines that you, Madam Minister, have received in the analysis of the health system, the model of financing our health system is not even presented in the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025, which you have prepared. I wonder why you ordered this analysis and why the taxpayers had to pay it. We do not have a key response, which is essentially an assumption, what we as a society can do, how much we can finance our health system. If there is no money or the state cannot provide additional resources from the budget, then the Minister must present new solutions and new alternatives that will be on realistic assumptions. And once again, you're responsible for the situation, no one but you. And when you talk about an accessible system; please, this system of our public health will be available when there are no more waiting types and ages. And if someone is waiting for a first checkup – over 20,000 people are waiting for a first checkup – then we cannot talk about all available public health systems that are free of charge. No, this health system is not free, people pay it pretty well. At that time, we will talk about the fact that our health system, Madam Minister, is accessible to all. Especially in the case of financial support to the healthcare system, assistance is expected. The contribution of the Finance Minister and the participation of the whole Government, which we have not seen in this mandate so far. Look, the minister comes with one proposal, and the finance minister says in the same breath, no, we're not going to fund this proposal. This is unconsistency and people rightly then do not have confidence in such public health care. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on the basis of the arguments I have put forward in the position of the New Slovenia Group – I think that was quite enough – we will, on the basis of justifiable reasons, re-support the intervention against Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc in Nova Slovenija. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u7	The word is given by the Left Messenger Group, for her Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. Interpellation has five points, but I think the main reason for it is to sum it up in the last, fifth point. This talks about responsibility due to proposals of health legislation which are contrary to European legislation and which undermine Slovenian health. We've been listening to this mantra for the entire mandate of the Medical Chamber, Fides and the Insurance Association. It simply means this: the laws proposed by the Minister endanger the material interests of profit-oriented doctors and commercial insurance companies. The Medical Chamber and other stakeholders, as in the current tape, are ordering legal opinions to prove infringements of European law. Well, none of these opinions deal with the protection of patients' rights, but they all deal with the privileges of concessionaires, medical companies and insurance companies that enable these people to draw public funds. It is therefore in the interest of the vast majority of our citizens and citizens to cut the poultry of the medical and insurance lobby. So let's see what rights of "poor" concessionaires and even more "poor" insurance companies are at risk. To begin with, the right to a free economic initiative is under threat; newly, concessionaires will have to operate in a non-profit manner and invest in the development of health activities. If I give a concrete example: the medical concessionaire, where Igor Bavčar is being treated, will not be able to pay dividends to his co-owner, who is the Ljubljana archdiocese, but will have to redirect these funds into new personnel, into better material conditions. Is such a measure justified? Absolutely. Health must not be goods because concessionaires generate profits at the expense of our common public funds, with profit at the expense of public health. Such a measure is also useful because the surplus will be used for the purchase of medical equipment, such as, for example, the luxury residence of Cardinal Rodet on the other hand. Next, the right to private property is under threat. This simply means that concessionaires who already have concessions will have to hire health personnel and obtain medical equipment. And if they fail in the future, the concessions will be lost. This measure is also justified. The concessionaires already have almost 16% of the funds. A large part of these concessions were awarded without public tendering, life-long, solely in the interest of this concessionaire, not to the actual needs of the population. And of course, such a measure is useful because at least some of these unnecessary concessions will fall away while adapting to the new rules. This will reduce the extent of legalised corruption embodied in concessions. Finally, the legitimate expectations of insurance companies are threatened. See, commercial insurance companies also live off legalised corruption – from the collection of fees charged to citizens and citizens. And if we pay all the health benefits by public means, these insurance companies will lose the source of the profits. The justification for the termination of supplementary health insurance is self-evident. This insurance is unfair. Pensioners, minimum wage workers, students, everyone pays, we pay the same premium as officials, politicians and directors with the highest wages. The abolition of supplementary health insurance is also useful. Almost €60 million of the premiums we pay for treatment are unjustifiably intercepted by insurance companies instead of the public health system. Then insurance companies pay them as profits or spend them on inflated operating costs, advertisements, and other things that have nothing to do with health. In Levica, in short, we support the objectives of the legislation prepared by the Ministry of Health. While we keep telling the ministry and the coalition that the privatisation of the health system has already progressed so far that more radical measures are needed. The Health Act should be substantially more restrictive and long-term abolition of concessions. They should prohibit the status of physicians of amphibians and prescribe higher contributions to the rich and capital through the new Health Care Act. All of this with one purpose – to improve the health of every individual who is created in Slovenian society by the growth of capitalism in health care. The Socialists also constantly point out that the work of the Minister of Health is not optimal. The Minister has not yet made it possible to produce medical hemp lawfully, and this harms both patients and domestic producers. It has not yet banned transfatigue in food, which is a major risk factor for cancer and cardiovascular disease. Under the Pharmacy Act, you gave in to concessionaires and restricted public pharmacies, which is contrary to your promises in the coalition contract. And after all, I can't put my hand in the fire for all your operational decisions, including that last one about funding the MD Medicin concessionaire. And let's not forget, as a member of the Government, Madam Minister, you have supported a whole range of harmful measures – from tax reliefs to income for rich to freezing health services prices, after all, the decision to use 200 million euros to buy new Patries; that is the 200 million euros that the Slovenian public health system needs bloodyly. But today we are not voting on the non-trust of the Government, but on the decision to dismiss the Minister of Health. The best point of reflection to begin looking for an answer on this vote is the question of what would happen if the National Assembly today suspends Milojka Kolar Celarc. I don't think the waiting periods on this account would be reduced by a millimeter. And the situation in child heart surgery wouldn't have improved at all. However, I am sure that both the restriction of concessions and the abolition of supplementary health insurance would fall into the water. In all this government and coalition, I don't see any policy that understands how important these measures are. And it is probably clear to everyone that he will not do so, for example, Mr Tomaž Gantar of Desus, if he once again becomes Minister. No, respectable; the current reform, modest, maybe modest stands or falls on the Miley Kolar Celarc. Therefore, the Members of the Left will not support this interpretation. They may have invested it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but it was written by the medical and insurance lobby. And whoever treats health as an economic sector is not a friend of the people and thus our friend cannot be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u9	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u10	Good-bye. Dear colleagues, colleagues, president, minister! At the outset, let me say that we do not have a unified position in our parliamentary group on support for interpolation. Three of us won't support her, Dr. Dobovšek will support her. And his reasons, I believe he'll explain himself. But let me just say that the three of us will not be supported for the reason that this interpolation would actually change nothing. The Minister and President of the Government, the Government and the entire coalition are responsible for the health situation today. And by replacing the Minister by the end of her term of office, it would be no different, so it is only right that this responsibility for a situation which is catastrophic should be assumed first by the Minister, the President of the Government and the entire coalition. However, we have a united position in our parliamentary group that the Minister is not doing well, that the health situation is worse from day to day, and that they have deteriorated significantly under the government of Mira Cerar. These are the facts that confirm the numbers. What numbers? The losses in our hospitals were in front of the Government of Mir Cerar – they were, the fact is – measured in EUR 10 million. A few ten million euros amounted to losses. After three years of rule, Lady Kolar Celarc's responsibilities amount to some 100 million. A few hundred million. The difference is more than obvious. The type of people waiting for a review or intervention is a third longer than before your term of office. Fifty thousand people are waiting to be examined or intervened for an unacceptable period of time. For the first time in the history of our country, cancer patients also wait and have a waiting period. And that's not our data, that's not fictional words. This information is confirmed by the institutions of our country, the institutions of our country. And even from the health reform that was promised, all that was left was promises, unfortunately. And all of this is a sad truth about our health system after three years of the reign of Mira Cerar, his client and three years of the work of his minister. Health care is the system that people feel the most when they need it most. That's when they're sick. Problems in our health care have accumulated for a number of years, that is a fact and it would be very unfair to point to the minister with a finger and blame her for all the accumulated problems, very unfair. I always say that, or we are responsible for health problems, everyone who has ever been part of the government is responsible. My government hasn't done enough in this area either. It is true, however, that my government has faced the biggest financial crisis in the history of Slovenia, that we have made every effort to avoid bankruptcy. It was hard, it was difficult, but we did it. We managed to save the country from bankruptcy without foreign help. SMC and Miro Cerar, who took over the government from us, should continue where we left off or ended up. And health care is certainly the first thing we should be dealing with most seriously. Unfortunately, they didn't or didn't. You've studied and analyzed for three years that in the end you've found something that you've known for a long time. These three years should be devoted to rehabilitation and immediate rehabilitation of development or reform. Our health system is only after three years of your rule during the first half of your rehabilitation with the law mentioned by the Minister – the intervention law – where you will cover your sins with 136 million, which you have imposed on the institution by raising wages. But we can only dream about reforming or changing the health system under this government and this coalition. As I have already said, the replacement of a minister over the last six months of this government would not have changed anything at all. This interpretation is totally unnecessary from this point of view, but today we will be able to draw attention to health problems you do not know or do not want to face. For me, the most shocking thing today at the performance of the Minister or the Minister is that she actually claims that our health system is excellent and in excellent condition. For people who, after more than a year, have waited for more than two years for certain services, that is a mockery of these people. If we look at the coalition contract and the health sector in it, I can say that it is written down what is necessary. The only problem is that what you've done isn't what you've written in a coalition contract. I'm only going to make two points out of this contract. One is the award of concessions where you wrote: “The area of concessions is arranged in a way that concessions will be awarded only on the basis of public tenders, for a certain period of time only where the public health institution cannot provide sufficient services in accordance with the accepted network. We will align the rules for working conditions and the operation of concessionaires with public health institutions." And your score? Concession awarded without an invitation to tender to a acquaintance of the President of the Government, for operations, orthopaedics, although it is not registered at all or has no hospital activity. And that's your reality. The second point I would like to mention is the management of public health institutions. You wrote: “To reorganize management, business and supervision of public health institutions and to increase the responsibility of directors and councils of institutions. Determine the necessary knowledge in the areas of management, health economy, work organisation, health care and insurance legislation, the areas of implementation of activities of general social interest, etc., both for management and for membership in sacred institutions.« And your score? You name people without knowledge and competence as leaders. All that matters is that he's yours, that's the only criteria. Example: UKC Ljubljana, Brežice Hospital, Celje Hospital and more and could be listed. In short, from an affair to an affair in the last three years. Health is a value that comes first for most of us. Quality services without long waiting types are the wish of all our citizens. With the government of Mira Cerar and Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, the coalition has made the situation in the health system worse. It is sad that you do not realize the bad conditions and even less that you are facing them. The Government of Mira Cerar has done nothing in three years to improve the health system and will remain in office until the end of the term of office. The new government will have a great responsibility to handle all that lies ahead. Not only the new government, the new coalition will have to be more responsible than this and realize that only together, together and with responsible decisions can public health care make quality, accessible and, in particular, not only to individuals who can pay for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for her by Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President. Minister, colleague, colleague! You know, the power of health is self-inflicted and our loved ones are aware when they knock on our door. At the door of our body, as well as the spirit. And when we can no longer help ourselves, we have experts, doctors who do it on their own official professional duty. And at that point, the first question we're going to ask is, who we're going to call, how quickly we're going to get to our service, what kind of way, what kind of conditions, what kind of price. In what way can we ask for the help we need? Can we even ask anyone for help? In fact, what is health care in this regard? What is the role of the State in this basic distress of an individual when his body is cut off from him, his spirit? Is health care and the role of the State in the function of privileges or in the function of justice and assistance? That's a key question. Is it that we get people in health trouble to get care, the issue of the thickness of our wallet, or that the state has to make sure that these basic health rights are enabled? We are actually turning around around around this starting point, not only in this mandate, but from the very beginning of a democratic state such as has been established. On the one hand we have the concept of privileges, the concept where the power of the wallet is the one that tells you how healthy you should be; it is the concept of private, the concept of privatization of health. On the other hand, the concept of the country's role as one that must guarantee a public basic right to health care. And this is a concept advocated by the Modern Center Party. This is a concept advocated by the Minister of Health in his work, and this is a concept under which we have also signed together all three coalition partners: SMC, Desus and SD. And after this journey, we started walking together three years ago, under the guidance of our minister. And we went through a difficult, thorny path. Also because we have found and it has been shown that, in the meantime, under the cover of constitutionally guaranteed rights, the State will provide basic health care, many things have happened that privatisations have happened, that there has been an unjustified, unreasonable, unseemly enrichment of those who should be here in the service of health and the assistance of the people in need. I will now speak on some of these matters on behalf of the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre in my position. We certainly understand today’s session in the first place as another opportunity to pour pure wine into the cup of immortality. About this and to answer questions about what public health is, what private health is, who gets what and what price, what the minister does in this light, our client, our government, and what the view is, even through the past experience and the work of our colleagues who have decided today to inter-interpret the minister. Today is the day when we want to say again clearly and loudly that it is for the Modern Centre Party, for this government and for this coalition the task and duty of the State to ensure the conditions under which all people in our country will in the same way reach the same quality basic health care and services. This is the starting point. This is what we expect of all those involved in the healthcare system. Of course, today's session is also an opportunity to help re-set the mirror for all those individuals, groups, customers who believe that it is possible, even at the expense of human health, to earn money, and especially for their own pockets. That our country should not, in their view, be such as to allow people to come to health care in a quick and basic way when they are in distress. And such attempts to re-evaluate the functioning of the health system have been considerable over the years. There have been so many of them that actual practices have become a serious chronic problem in the functioning of our country and, consequently, the society and its relationship to health. During our term of office, we have convinced ourselves on our own, even through political experience, that public health as the right of all people is not something self-evident, but that, above all, it must be a reflection, the result of decisive, patient, sometimes even combative, and, above all, consistent policies that concern the health of their people and not who, when and where they will receive new concessions or new complementary insurance opportunities. Healthy and innovative entrepreneurial initiatives are undeniably worthy of all respect and encouragement. But not on the bill and not in the case of health care. Health care is a fundamental part of social responsibility, it is a health system and must be created first for the patient and not the other way around. Doctors, medical personnel, chambers, professional associations, insurance companies and all other healthcare providers must ensure adequate health care for all citizens by their work, and by no means generate profits for their pockets, not at the expense of health and sick people. With the takeover of the mandate, we have inherited a health system that has undergone the latest reconstruction, unfortunately, at a time when we have moved into democratic order. There is neither time nor space today nor the purpose of wondering whether this has taken place over the years, knowingly, thoughtfully, or simply by some force of the situation. However, once again it must be made very clear that a large part of the political public, which today loudly criticises the work of this government in the field of health, has not come to this point today, but that you have been involved in such or otherwise in more than 20 years of decline and the breakdown of the public health system. The silent witnesses who have for many years formed what is happening in health care are today the amazingly vocal opponents of change and critics of everything that is going on. You are disturbed by the breakthrough we are achieving in this area by the interests of the universe that are far from the interests or needs of the people, the patients, the ones for which they should be here. What's up? 20 concessions were awarded to top UKC Ljubljana specialists during your first government. Eminent representatives of health institutions shall run on client lists. Representatives, individuals under the cover of public interest, who are also zealous party members, which, of course, is nothing wrong, but when we meet them on behalf and under the cover of other institutions that should be residential and should fight for the public interest, not for the party's. You know, but I honestly think that the more individuals, their groups, even customers, the more loud you are, the more calm we know with greater certainty that we are doing the right thing. And no, you're not anonymous either, people see you, they know your names, they know who you are, they know how you work because they have experience with you. Consider that our health system is a large mosaic that needs to be viewed from a distance so that we can understand the whole complex picture of what it looks like. Today's interpolation proposal points out that parts of this mosaic are missing, that some are damaged and need to be replaced, restored, modernised. I sign under all this and there's nothing wrong with it. And the Minister of Health knows this well and agrees. So that the warning of shortcomings, of uncertainties, of inadequacies, also of the abuse of the system, which, in an inadequate environment and conditions, guides and saves the Minister in the best possible way, is what has led the key. And most importantly, the minister insists strongly on not giving up on her decisions. Nor does he give in to humiliation, ridicule, manipulation, lies, slander at her personal expense. Most of all, those who are critical points of the health system, who, as it is said, have never been created overnight, are taking advantage of blacking out the entire system, introducing mistrust, unrest, and additional fear among already frightened patients. This brings unrest and is harmful, unfair, unfair to the majority of health workers and personnel who faithfully and loyally do their work with patients every day, every day of the week, all months of the year. The great critics of everything and all of them, without facts and evidence, generally, have in the context of an outstretched assessment that everything is bad, that this government, the minister, the President of the Government, is responsible for all of this, we have heard a little earlier. You know, we, on the contrary, can claim with evidence that no government in the field of protection of the public health system has done more in the last decade than we have been able to do in this mandate. Nor could it, since no government has been able to establish a stable ministerial structure in the last decade. Did you know that until this government, on average, one minister had been replaced in one year in the field of health since 2008? I think that can tell you a lot of things. In the field of health, the current Minister of Health, with her team to date, has made significant changes in the modernisation of the system and in the protection of the public health system. The area of emergency medical care has been introduced, a system of specialisation has been re-established since no one in the country has been committed to getting sufficient doctors on the market for years before. The area of awarding concessions is being regulated, which must follow the interests, wishes and needs of patients and the needs of the public health system, the state, not the individual's own business ambitions. A new system law in the field of pharmaceuticals has been adopted. Awareness of the importance of prevention in health care is strengthened, the area of rights and, for the first time, the responsibility of patients for timely treatment is regulated. The long-awaited upgrading of the health information system has successfully passed the introduction at national level. Today eTravel and eRecept are working and bringing innovations both at system level and at the level of the user of health services. Right now, we are adopting an intervention law that will eventually, after years of neglecting the appropriate attention of past governments, stop the bad practices of public health institutions and manage their millions of losses. You know, it's not a coincidence that we can afford this huge financial recovery. Such conditions had to be established. This also shows that the country has also become firmly established in the field of public finances and that we have also become recognizable, trusted partners in the eyes of foreigners. Last but not least, it attaches information about Moody's increase in the rating of Moody's about two years ago. Why am I bringing all this up? Because all of this is also an important prerequisite for the start of a process that awaits us in the coming weeks and months. This is a consideration of a new, thorough Health and Health Insurance Act, which will put an end to the concept of basic public health care, an unreasonable measure of complementary health insurance, which will enable us to begin with the consideration of the long-term care law, which we, as a rapidly growing society, are in bloody need and we have also been looking forward to for the last ten years. When we talk about healthcare in numbers, we cannot and must not pass through international comparative facts. If we put Slovenia in a European space, we find that several indicators show that today the health system works well, that it accumulates a lot of knowledge and, above all, that we can rely on it. As you know, in the eyes of the patient only matters if he knows that he can knock on the door of his doctor and that he will receive good, quality care. The analysis carried out by the European Observatory for the Monitoring of Health Systems and Policies in 2016 shows that in Slovenia, compared with other European countries, we have one of the best access to a personal physician at the primary or primary level, since all patients have the opportunity to get to a selected personal physician immediately. We're talking about family medicine specialists, we're talking about pediatric specialists, we're talking about gynecologists. The same study also shows that we have a low mortality rate between babies and mothers. The mortality of babies per thousand live births decreased from 5 in 2006 to 3 in 2016 to 1,000 live births. The indicator of why I mention it is one that applies to one of the most commonly used quality criteria of the healthcare system. Next This year the magazine The Lancet published a global survey where Slovenia ranked 18th in terms of quality and accessibility of healthcare. There are other countries behind us, such as Germany, Denmark, the United Kingdom, despite the fact that these countries devote significantly more money to health than ours. Following a number of measures taken by past governments, which have reduced the prices of health services and in the years following the financial crisis, the number of health supplies and services provided has increased significantly despite the unaltered capacity, staff and institutional capacity. Looking at the period between 2013 and 2015 alone, the number of referrals to the specialist increased by almost 14 %. This may be due to the overburden of the primary level of health care, which may be the result of demographic trends in the ageing population, which may also be due to the increased awareness of people and the responsibility that people have for their own health. All of these must be followed by an active and responsible policy with appropriate adjustments to the system. Next. A European Union survey on income statistics and living conditions has shown that Slovenia has been among the countries in which people receive the health care they need regardless of the amount of their income. According to Eurostat, life expectancy is increasing over the last 10 years for a maximum of 2.6 years. In 2007, we lived on average 78.3 years, in 2012 80.2 years and in 2015 80.9 years. So this is what the state of Slovenian health looks like when we look at it through some of the selected statistics. In this light, and in particular in view of the information I have just provided, today's panellists would therefore also call for their own reflection, as well as an ideal comment on the facts arising from their management. As a result of your government’s austerity measures and the resulting lower prices of health services, private insurance companies have charged a higher premium through supplementary health insurance and, on the one hand, have imposed higher health insurance costs on people and have opened to themselves a wide-ranging field to generate profits. In 2012 and 2013, you have twice directly intervened in the right to timely treatment of patients, by linearly lowering the prices of health services in the way that you have reduced the funds of hospitals, and this is totally unselective – no matter how successful the operators have been, regardless of the waiting times they have been causing, regardless of the negative business. And then, of course, you had to be saved by the coming governments. We did not speak of waiting times in your day, nor did we speak of them because we did not know them at all. But it's not because they wouldn't exist, it's because no one has recorded them and they've just been swept under the rug. So can you, then Members of Parliament, former ministers, presidents of governments tell us how long, say, the patients of 2012 have been waiting for the first review after individual specialist activities? I believe not. And I also believe that there were no waiting periods during your term of office. But I can safely say that you didn't talk about it. It didn't matter to you. Do we know why? Because nobody was dealing with patients at the time. Since waiting periods at national level were not recorded at that time, until recently there was no single information system that would register and officially record any health assignment. Can you explain to people why you created a health system during your term of office, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u13	Please, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u14	set up to the extent of the interests of enriching individuals? [[…]] A system that is at an uncontrolled rate of trees to privatize our health care. In other words, only those citizens who could afford money could benefit from health services. This is the second part of today's long debate. The one not under the SMC, not the Minister, and I believe that neither will the coalition ever sign. The political parties differ between us, especially on the basis of views on how our society should breathe and what role the country should play in doing so. The SMC vision of a healthy society and the role of the country in it is very clear and very simple in the field of health. The fundamental right of each individual is equal access to decent, timely, safe and quality health care. And it is the country that must guarantee this right and continue to protect it for all its people under the same conditions. The work carried out by our Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, follows these and only these interests and we therefore support it in its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u15	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, good-bye. My colleague Simona, I believe you had a very difficult task defending your minister. In fact, I'm going to say that it wasn't some sort of attitude, but more like a pear statement, a pyar view of what our health should be like. So our health system is good; that sounds funny, doesn't it? But this is not the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. This is not just our position, as our citizens think, but most of all our patients. That is also what the Minister says in response to our interpellation, as this government is confident, is said to be the president and, of course, a coalition. But all this connotation of the coalition, I'm going to say that it's already bordering on that story about Caesar's new clothes and it would be really interesting to see if there's gonna be any hero in this story who's finally going to overlook and make up and say, "Caesar's naked." This, I believe, is only a pious wish, because according to yesterday's comment by the head of the SD Group, that the health system is weak, but the interpretations against the Minister of Health will not be supported, because the SDS tabled by President Desus also agrees that this minister has done nothing, but our interpretation will not be supported because it is only six months before the new elections. Of course, this coalition must be kept together, and this must also be at the cost of the health of our citizens. But look, in six months, these voters will ask us about our health. The Minister, of course, rejects our interpretation as unfounded and also states that interpretation is based on rumours, on unverified claims, populism estimates, the Minister considers it to be the best. [[…]] And not just the minister, that's what this coalition does to me. Of course, and probably at the same time, the question arises to you immediately, does the Minister read newspapers at all, monitor the meetings of the vascular resistance commission, read statistics and official reports on long waiting types, various reports on the operation of public health institutions? I also wonder if the Minister hears our citizens, hears our doctors and hears our patients. It seems like the minister lives in a fairytale world where her close associates say to her over and over again: You are the best. “Our health system is good.” The minister states in response to the interpolation. This is pure populism, respected colleagues, and this is pure populism, a respected minister, and also a blinding of the eyes before the actual situation. Yes, our health system, I agree, is good, but our health system is good for healthy people, not patients. That our health system is good, no one believes any more, or just those who are still living somehow in this fairy tale of Caesar's new clothes, I'll say. And this is, of course, a coalition with the President of the Government that defends you, the Minister, on all the weights – not because you are so good, but because of the so chaotic state that you, the Minister, our Slovenian health care, does not want to be taken over by anyone. You'll only be doing damage to our health care for six months. How serious for the Minister of Health, her tasks and responsibilities, what her priorities are, how she respects the constitutional order with her work, works with all her strength for the welfare of the people of Slovenia and follows her conscience, she has already proved that the conclusion of today's interpretation has literally been copied from the conclusion or answers to our interpretation in November 2016. And that, dear fellows, is some kind of strain, it's some effort and some effort. The Minister concludes her interpretation, which is supposed to be some summary of the overall response to interpolation, notes that we are deliberately discrediting the interpelling candidates, we are also insulting the cities, and above all, we are closing our eyes to the real good results of Slovenian health. Actual good results of Slovenian health! If the Minister has had in mind the work of our doctors before the actual good results of Slovenian health care, I will say that she read again and understands our interpretation, which is also possible, according to all her actions. If, however, she had in mind the results of the Slovenian health system, she shuts her own eyes because she does not see the chaotic state in the health field or areas that we read in the interpretation. I'm going to say now, is there anyone else among us here in this room who believes a minister who, when interpreting in November, has yet to claim that health reform will see the light of world 12. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of course, it was her existence or her nonexistence. But look at him, a fraction, 12. 12. Nothing happened in 2016. The only thing that the Minister managed to prepare so far was the Law on Medical Services, which was not in line with the profession, was not in line with the doctors, was not in line with the unions, and we also adopted it as an emergency in the National Assembly, as if it were a state of war. Respected colleagues, reform changes, reform laws are not adopted this way, they are not adopted by emergency procedure. And speaking of coordination; the Minister always mixes in terms of cooperation and taking into account proposals. It is true that the Ministry and the Minister are meeting with the Medical Chamber to meet with doctors, unions, young doctors, but the Minister does not hear them, and cooperation means an exchange of views and also taking into account certain proposals. Well, what has changed in the field of health since the interpolation in November 2016 to date? Has anything changed for the better? Unfortunately, the health situation is even worse today. Let's just look at the health legislation promised by the minister by 12. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The result is only one law, the result of which is only the Medical Service Act, which, as I have already said, was adopted by emergency procedure. The long waiting lines have, unfortunately, only increased. As the losses in public health institutions have increased, corruption has undoubtedly spread its hunters to all times of health care. Of course, the Minister with a great deal of vehementity also rejects our interpretation, in the form of writing a free file — without any real action or positive effects mentioned above — and concludes that our health system is good. Read her free file. And with this interpellation, we re-examine the Minister's misdeeds and, if you want, I believe that many of you have heard that too – what the profession says and what our citizens say. They say, leave, please, leave the Minister alone; it is better that nothing works, for whatever he does, makes the situation even worse. Yeah, it's funny. I agree with you guys at the coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we have already introduced a second interpellation, which gives ministers the full responsibility for failing to act in the field of corruption in health care, the responsibility to extend the unregulated state at the Paediatric Clinic, the responsibility for ineffective resolution of the problem of waiting periods, the responsibility for poor business and the increasing indebtedness of public health institutions, and the responsibility for the proposed health legislation, which is contrary to Slovenian and European legislation and which undermines Slovenian health care. Of course, we expected the motioners to respond to the interpretation with facts, I repeat, with facts, with measures, with positive effects, not with a response to interpretation, as I have already said, which is more like a free file, a report on work, a summary of the content of laws, an indicator of regulations, orders, decisions and even consensus. That's not serious, to say the least. And if we go in the right order. As the first Minister of Interpellation, we recognize her responsibility for non-action in the field of corruption in health care. We've already read it to the Minister of Health in our first interpretation. In response to both the first interpolation and today's interpolation, the Minister stated that the responsibility and competence of preventing, detecting and persecuting individual doctors and others involved, of course, in corruption is the responsibility of the public health authorities. Leading public health institutions! Who's responsible? I'm asking you to appoint directors of public health institutions. Who is responsible for the appointment of members and the President of the Councils of Public Health Institutions? Let me remind you of just a few examples here: Brežice Hospital, UKC Maribor, Ormož Hospital, UKC Ljubljana – let me also remind you of Baričič and Kopača. Let me remind you here of the adoption of these so-known protocols by which you appointed 88 new members of the boards of institutions. Of course, you solved 88 of them prematurely. You have replaced these 88 members in the councils of public institutions with your, of course, politically eligible candidates. And where are the results now? The Minister states that it follows the principle of zero tolerance for corruption and that, together with the services of the Ministry of Health, they respond or act in cases of suspected corruption. Yeah, how? How, though, if the Minister is not in the Chamber now, does she claim that responsibility and responsibility are to prevent, detect and prosecute public health authorities? It would be high time for the Minister to decide whether she is competent or not to respond and act in the event of a suspicion of corruption – as it is almost the end of her term of office. It is a fact and, of course, the Minister is responsible for corruption in health care. Once again, that is a fact, only the mandate will really end before it comes to that realization. That's too bad. The Minister also cites in this chapter an example of a successful joint procurement that she has carried out for all emergency centres and has saved 30% of the funds. But in doing so, I am reluctant to ask what happened to the equipment and the events at the champagne hospital or the champagne emergency center — we are likely to recall all of this. Of course, with regard to these emergency centres, the Minister will silence the fact that funding, staffing and the organisation itself in these emergency centres has not yet been resolved. Of course, you'd rather shut up than say it hasn't been arranged yet. As an example of a successful joint public contract — with regard to failure to act in the field of corruption — the Minister also cites the general public procurement of medicines and medical devices. The procedure for the common procurement of medicinal products and medical devices began in early 2015. The procedure is not yet completed today. Look, two and a half years from the start of the procedure and the procedure is still pending. The Minister cites this as a successful case of joint public procurement. After all, that's not funny anymore. That's very sad. In our interview with the Minister on public procurement, we have noted that there is still no price comparison with foreign markets, but the Minister is convinced that comparison is not possible at all and that data cannot be officially obtained abroad. Come on. Does anyone believe that such data cannot be obtained abroad? I don't think he's here in the hall. Under the second point in the interview, the Minister is responsible for extending the irregular situation at the UKC Paediatric Clinic in Ljubljana. The Minister of Apparition fully rejects and states that it is extremely closely monitored and, within the framework of its competence to take action against long-standing irregular treatments at the Paediatric Clinic. But, Madam Secretary, monitoring alone is not enough. If you're just gonna follow these events, you're not gonna do anything. There are no measures, and where are the results? If you were able to mediate that a certain person at the Pediatric Clinic was not relieved of your call, you would be able to take action through the public health board, where the ministry has a majority and also the president, but not only to monitor this event, but also to the pediatric clinic. In response to the interpolation in the case of the irregular situation at the Paediatric Clinic on nine pages, you chronologically describe how you monitored the situation, how you were familiar with them, how you requested, how you expected, how you called and requested the report, you sent a reply to the letter, etc. Where are the measures? The Minister also states that, personally and through the competent services, she has been involved in the resolution of complex heart surgery situations. I've told you before that this case is familiar and clear to all of us. It involved herself by requiring that the head of the Paediatric Clinic not be dissolved. Next. The Minister cites a survey carried out at UKC and the Pediatric Clinic UKC. The minister states that the assessment of patient satisfaction at the Paediatric Clinic was slightly lower than the average of the UKC. However, it does not indicate what she was like and whether any measures have been taken on the basis of this survey. That here's where her non-response to the unfortunate event that happened 2. 9. 2016 and in which, together with the UKC Council, it did not take longer than one year to appoint a project council, I would rather not mention it because it was a tragic event. One year was spent just calling it a project world to explore this tragic event. And this chapter, Minister, you simply conclude by stating that the main cause of the problem of dealing with children with heart disease is the relationship between employees. Moreover, physicians are primarily responsible for the reputation and trust of patients in the profession. That's your conclusion to this story. Instead of looking for levers to solve the matter, how to act, you can wash your hands well and blame our doctors. But someone also calls these doctors, they're being supervised, and they're responsible. And these responsible men are appointed by you, Minister, and you can intercede that they are relieved. How heartless your answer is. And here it goes, look, but for the lives of our youngest, for the lives of our children. The minister blames the doctors, and it's like there's no problem anymore. Thirdly, the ministers are seeing the inefficiency of solving the problem of waiting periods. Although shortening the waiting period is the priority of the Minister's work, waiting periods have increased by 30% in her mandate; one in four Slovenes is waiting in line for a review or a service. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry does not know whether the measures and the programme to reduce waiting periods have the desired effects or not. In its reply to the interpellation, the Minister is convinced that he cites and cites positive and, of course, satisfactory results, and the fact is that only the Ministry has acknowledged that the programmes to reduce waiting periods have not produced the desired effects and that the selected operators have not fully implemented the programmes for which the agreement was reached. Of course, there is also a question of how and to whom these programmes were allocated and, of course, why they were not implemented. In response to the interpellation, the Minister makes it clear that we are simply making a flat-rate assessment of Slovenian health care as bad and as inaccessible. I really want to hear what's not true, what we're reading in this interpretation? Can we say that our health care is accessible to all in the same way as provided by the Constitution? Perhaps accessible, but in such a way that you are a lot of people it would be interesting to know what part of the Slovenians are already paying for a check from their own pocket to come in time for a checkup or a service. [[…]] I would also like to know whether the Ministry keeps any record of how many our citizens are serving self-payment checks and services. Furthermore, Minister, you state that our generalization in interpretation is unproductive and harmful for all those who run the Ministry of Health and that the confidence of the population is built for a long time. Of course, trust is being built for a long time, but this trust is in your mandate, Your Honored Minister, completely shattered. I'd say, minister and coalition, go to the field, go a little bit among the people and ask them what citizens think about our health care. I don't know if these citizens are just us, opposition parties talking about how unhappy they are, how long the waiting species are, or maybe we're the only ones hearing them. Maybe they're talking to you, but you can't hear them. It would have been the last time you'd listen to them and act. Next. Of course, the Minister also does not agree with the fact that she is responsible for the poor functioning of public health institutions, as the reply below mentioned again only a summary of the state of operation of public health institutions, while acknowledging that the financial operations of hospitals have deteriorated again in the second half of 2016, as half of the hospitals have shown a deficit in their current operations, despite a 3.6% increase in the price of health services. And that's exactly what we're telling the minister that she's responsible for the poor functioning of public health institutions. The Minister, of course, also rejects our allegations that she did not act. It states that, for the first time since the years of stagnation, it has provided additional resources for health care and has begun to abolish austerity measures. Does the abolition of austerity measures mean a reduction in the negative functioning of public health institutions? Does anyone understand that? It is funny, however, that the Minister fully rejects her co-responsibility due to proposals or non-proposals of legislation. The secretary was very successful at that. When I say successful, I mean misleading the entire government, the coalition as well as all citizens. Once again, we remember her promises to be fulfilled by 12. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We waited for that day, and we met him, but we did not see any changes in marriage. Then they promise that the legislation will be ready by Wednesday January. And we waited again, well, then we gave up anyway, but not only the opposition MPs – even the coalition MPs, even those who today, despite not being satisfied with the work of the Minister of Health, voted against her interpretation. Let us see what the Minister has drawn up in the field of legislation in her mandate. In 2015, the resolution and the three novelties, in 2016 the resolution and one law, and in 2017 the tobacco law and the Law on Medical Services, which we adopted in the National Assembly, as I have already said, as a matter of urgency, as a matter of war. But it went, I'll tell you again, about the Minister's existence or her non-existence. And once again, this is how health reform, respected colleagues, is not accepted. The Law on Medical Services, which we have accepted or accepted, is harmful to our young doctors. And if you've listened to them at their own parental board meeting, I believe you agree with me. And this law, the Medical Service Act, will literally send you out of the country to our young doctors. It is currently in the Health Act procedure, where, among other things, we have seen ministers, of course, on the basis of the opinion of the SSC of the National Assembly, that the proposal also violates the European acquis. Of course, the Minister rejects these allegations, and we can only conclude from this that she did not know how to explain the opinion of the ZPS to our disclosure, even though this opinion or non-compliance with EU law was justified on three sides. And that's it. Minister, you claim that Slovenian public health is good. You, your respected colleagues, judge – false promises, evading responsibility, misleading the public, adopting legislation that is at the expense of doctors, patients who are contrary to our Constitution, contrary to European directives – whether this is in accordance with your coalition agreement and with your ethical standards. I ask you, but I also have a little conscience when you vote whether it is for the benefit of our citizens or whether it will be only for the sake of this coalition that it will remain in any way until the end of this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u18	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! I will say the actual position of the Group of Members. But I'll tell you my personal position if it's not late at night or tomorrow morning. I must say that our position is not particularly affected by corruption. We would like to draw attention to the shortcomings that have arisen in the absence of systemic laws. We have actually gathered here in less than a year for the second time to answer the question of whether we still trust the work of the Minister of Health. It is no secret that we have been critical of Desus' work for a long time, but the Minister is unfortunately not responding to our well-intentioned advice, not now and not before. Let me remind you that, last October, we placed a condition on the Minister that, by December 2016 – today, someone has also mentioned the date, in particular – to present and send to the Health and Health Insurance Act procedure, which is key to financing the healthcare system, and this law is still not. We still do not have a solution to how we will finance our health care, so we do not have the hope of adopting such a demanding and important law in this mandate. So our condition from years ago wasn't enforced. Now I'm going to say or read a piece of what we wrote in the first interview, because nothing has changed in a year. We still have no answers to the key question, and this is how to systematically strengthen our public health, which is our common coalition commitment. We said: "We expect a clear word from the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc, about what we can really do today in the field of health as a country, what patients can expect from health today and in the years to come. We believe that the issue of financing and providing public funds is one on which the Minister, as an experienced finance woman, is very well acquainted. It is therefore surprising to avoid answering this key question, which prevents the implementation of one important part of health reform and also adopts for us an important law on the long-term care of the elderly. Only with these two laws will it be clear whether in the future we will still be a country that at least allocates resources from the budget to health care. What will be the fate of supplementary insurance, what will be the basket of rights and who will be their payer, how much private resources will we have to spend on health care, what will be the way to negotiate between partners?" And we still don't have these answers after three years of our mandate. More. After three years of the Minister's ministry, the agony in health care is only deepening. All of this also shows the intervention law, which, following an emergency procedure, will send to the legislative process and will put out the biggest fire with 136 million injections and 7 million write-offs of unpaid depreciation claims and, of course, systemic problems remain. We agree that health care is financially malnourished and that hospitals urgently need this money, but we unfortunately do not have measures to avoid it in the future. Are we going to have them? The significant difficulty in implementing the intervention law itself will also be caused by the envisaged remedial measures. What will they be based on, what will be the future funding, what will be done with the standards and regulations adopted, and how will they affect employment? What will be the prices of health services and will there be any changes in the organisation? These are, of course, questions that must be addressed primarily by reform measures that are not. We keep reminding the Minister of the right choice of priorities in the drafting of legislation, and then we get a minute before 12 o'clock on the table a bill that is supposed to have ad hoc solutions to hospital problems. That's what they'd say is that it's possible to do irresponsible work. Even though we know that health care will not survive without additional resources. It is essential to provide the necessary resources to ensure that the work of hospitals does not stop and then to find the right solutions of a systemic nature, so that the situation will not be the same in the coming year as it is this year. We hoped that at least organisational problems would be solved by the Health Act, which is in the process of being adopted, and this law does not bring solutions. Moreover, the professional public and those to whom it is intended are extremely critical of it. The only really positive point of this law is the regulation of the status of mid-term nurses and the introduction of calls for concessions. That is why we will support this law for the most part, but we also lack a more transparent and clear procedure here. And then there was MD Medicine, where the Ministry wanted to grant a million-and-a-half-euro private ambulance for 450 orthopaedic operations through all commitments of the coalition contract and also a new law. This is the least disgruntled and a great earring to public health. In this opinion, we are not alone; even the Minister's advisor Dr Dušan Keber wrote in his Saturday column that it is “a shot to the knees of the Government and to the knees of public health”. Fortunately, the government has not accepted it, and I hope not. As we have already said, Milojka Kolar Celarc’s failure to act, to collect wrong priorities and to eliminate decisions threatens exactly what is best advocated – public health. And that's less from day to day, believe me, patients feel that way. All of this represents the main reasons why we do not trust the ministers in our party and why we have asked her to resign before summer. In the Desus Group, we believe that the Minister is not in control of her station, so we are surprised that the Minister is still strongly supported by the Prime Minister, Dr Miro Cerar, and has taken on the responsibility of health care. However, I must say that I was one of those who told the Prime Minister at the very beginning of the mandate: "If we want to make a breakthrough in health care, the President of the Government must strongly support the Minister and the same must be done by the Minister of Finance." These opportunities and opportunities have had many, since all three of them are from one political nest. With the work of the Minister of Health, we are very unhappy, but we do not see the point of replacing it a few months before the elections. We also don't want to destabilize the government. The exchange of ministers would have made sense, for example, a year ago, when we in Desus had already pointed out loudly that reforms would not be carried out and that health problems were deepening. In the Desus Group, we do not support the Minister, but because we see that the President of the Government is in distress, our present-day majority rejection of the interpretation is mainly in favour of the President of the Government and not the Minister. As we say, interpellations against Miley Kolar Celarc will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we will again decide on the fate of the Minister of Health. In the previous interpretation of the same proposal, there was considerable evidence. Today I can say that they remain the same or even bigger. Some of the bones we eat remain meat, but the undeniable fact is that with the work of the minister we cannot be satisfied and cannot remain uncritical. Health problems exist, even more, they accumulate, waiting periods are increasing, hospital losses are increasing, corruption is being detected at every step and so on. But let's go in one order at a time. First, let me repeat some of the facts that are crucial to the Social Democrats. In the 1970s, Slovenians achieved that health care has become universal and equally accessible to all. In 1992, instead of budget funding, we moved to financing from compulsory health insurance, which in most cases does not cover almost any health care in its entirety, but our private payments for all of them. This change has undermined universality and has significantly reduced solidarity. In the Coalition Treaty, we have committed ourselves to settling this, but instead, we are practically listening to the empty promises of how the new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance – the law of all laws, as far as health care is concerned – is already ready and will be fair and so on. But to this day, apart from incomplete drafts, we have not yet seen the proposal. We are talking about a concrete proposal supported by concrete numbers and calculations. We are talking about such a proposal to answer the key questions, what and how we will finance health care, what we, as individuals, citizens and citizens, will receive for our payments. There's no foundation. How can we build without foundation? Our system is collapsing, but it needs quick action and concrete solutions. And we're gonna flip and flip. Pressures after commercialisation and privatisation are rising. Thus, the intensive criticism of the public system is not functional in order to improve the public system, which should be of fundamental common interest. No, the main objective of this criticism has been to say that public interest needs a challenge that only private interest can bring. And this is a new agenda, privatisation. But it must be realized that this new agenda is bad for most people. It should be borne in mind that the creation of profits that do not return to the health system either increases the cost of the healthcare system or reduces health rights, as there is no evidence in the world that commercialisation or privatisation would cost health care and increase its quality. The more private will not shorten waiting periods, the more accessible it will be, and the more efficient it will be, the more the opposite. Privatisation of the healthcare system and equalization of public and private health care lead to unequal treatment of patients. This means different quality according to the patient’s social status and unequal accessibility. Therefore, it is imperative to reduce the share of our additional private health care resources, which gradually creates two health systems and separates citizens from two groups: those that the property situation allows them to buy the necessary services and those that cannot and therefore do not come to them or wait so long to harm their health. And that must be done. All citizens must be able to fulfil their needs for quality and timely health services independently of their material situation. It is necessary to reverse the trend that introduces the treatment of health services into the public health system as a marketable commodity that can or even is desirable to generate profits. In the public system and public funds, the services required to maintain and restore health will only be provided in a non-profit manner. It is imperative that the excesses return to the health system. Today, we are already paying about 30% of healthcare costs, only 3% of the budget is funded. The share of public funds for healthcare is constantly decreasing for a number of years. Therefore, we cannot be too surprised because there has been erosion of the fundamental value of the public health system. Public institutions and hospitals are virtually all in red numbers, even because they creaked and creaked at the expense of human health. But it's so much more painful because nothing's happened. Nobody wanted to know how public health institutions were run. Partly because of this, we need EUR 168 million today to cover the losses of hospitals, not to run out of supplies of medicines, and that our people in the long queues still have to be treated. Once again, the health system in Slovenia is urgently needed for renovations due to changing demographic changes. But in doing so, we strongly oppose the privatisation and commercialisation of non-public health, poor public health, irritability and threats to basic human health care, reduce solidarity and the fairness of the health system, reduce access to health services, increase unfair differences in human health, create pressure on public health resources or reduce the rights of people and people from public resources, adversely affect human health and reduce the efficiency of their use of resources for their treatment. Public health care must be universal and equally accessible to all. Equal access to health services for all they need is exercised by the constitutional right to social security, which must be guaranteed to everyone, irrespective of personal circumstances, including the material situation. We therefore reject initiatives to ensure that the public system provides basic health care to the less-favoured and deprived segments of the population and that the parallel private system provides better opportunities for the wealthier groups. Sufficient funding for public health care should be provided. Our aim is to increase the level of financing of healthcare in the share of gross domestic product by enough to achieve the objective of better accessibility and quality of healthcare. The social partners need to redefine a basket of health services, which will be fully covered by public funds – a contribution rate and budgetary resources. It is necessary to redefine the services in the basket that will cover the key health needs of the population. Access to health care should be improved, the public network defined. All the most important health services should be provided for the longest acceptable waiting period, since, as we know, waiting periods are a major problem; we have over 250 000 or even half a million waiting for one of the public health services. We don't even know about everything that's ahead because we don't monitor all the waiting times and the number of waiting for all the services, which is also an indicator of the system's failure. But we can be even more concerned if we know the process of treating the patient. Together, the patient can wait up to four years. It is essential to check the appropriateness of financing health services, to clearly distinguish and strengthen cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the health treasury. Contributions to health care should be extended to all forms and certain things such as scientific research and specialist education should be deleted from compulsory health insurance. However, an essential part of the investment in health care must be burdened by state cash registers. Therefore, waiting periods in health care are one of the key problems of the Slovenian health system and one of the key problems for the functioning of this country, which directly and indirectly cause health, social, economic and financial consequences for the country. The reduction of waiting periods in health care is impossible to guarantee without additional funding, we support this, but the allocation of resources must be transparent, clearly defined and justified, but not like the last attempt with MD Medicine. In the coming days, we confirm the law by which we will draw a gradual separation between public and private. So many words spoken, so much ink spilled, coordination, negotiation, and then the Minister herself shows the boundaries of the playing of this legislation. There will be no support for such maneuvers on our part. And, Madam Secretary, the promise makes a debt. You make a lot of promises, but in this mandate, the realisation is bad. After three years of ministry, we should move from words to actions, so, Minister, hand to heart, our criticism cannot surprise you. But the fact is, we are just before the end of our term of office. Therefore, we do not believe that there would be any difference in this relatively short period with the new Minister, so we expect you to be active in the coming months and take advantage of the last opportunity you have. In view of all the interpretations mentioned above in the Group of Social Democrats, we will, for the most part, not support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interpretation. Mr Branko Zorman, Ms Jelka Godec, has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u22	Thank you very much. After the presentation of the parliamentary groups, I must say that, as a proposaler, I am a little bit surprised, but confused, because what we have just heard from the SD Group of Members and Desus is, in fact, what I should be saying. That's right. And a year ago you were talking, because the minister, let's give her time, she'll do, she'll do, she'll do, not good, but she'll do what we want. I'm hearing today that you're not really talking to each other within the coalition. Apparently, Minister, now I'm telling you, it's clear as a white day that you don't listen to coalition partners, obviously what's being said is true, which now confirms what you're saying, that our rumors, your coalition colleagues have confirmed that you're simply not cooperating with each other and you're not listening to anyone. So, any criticism is superfluous for you, well-intentioned criticisms that you might have listened to, because today what I heard from your coalition partners, they basically told you what should be done and what this reform of the health system should be like. Of course, at some points I don't agree, but your stubborn insistence is something incredible, and today, if you say that these are rumors that you're not working with the coalition, now no one will believe you anymore. Because if those people tell you what this is about, then it's clear as day. On the other hand, we listen to the Left. They're already in the same position. I listen to my colleague Kordiš on all committees; in fact, with the same sentences, a little bit of the opposite, but the essence is always the same. But sometimes I read an article here and there online from Youth. I have to say, colleague Kordish, it's like I'm reading their articles. It's something amazing. And you say it's only material interests that we defend the material interests of doctors. What about the material interests of suppliers? You may not be interested in this, given that we have also identified the owner of Youth in the investigation, from which you have articles and exactly the same things you are reading. So they're also somehow connected to suppliers who paid off the venous cords, but we'll probably talk about it at the next meeting of the National Assembly in a month, and we'll say more. You don't touch that. You don't care about that. Suppliers can get rich and doctors can work for small wages. And that's exactly why some people say they're small wages, but we have amphibians. Here, however, I agree with my colleague Kordish, who says that this minister did not in fact divide public and private health. He's not here. You're not even with the Health Act. Because if you did, you would not allow what you always said to stop — that a doctor works in a public hospital and has private practice in the same area this afternoon. You haven't done that, Minister, and you've been saying since the beginning of your term that this is your priority. Now you have only determined more what the conditions of doctors working in the private sector must be. But the fact that she has the same thing this afternoon, you didn't do it. So don't even talk to SMC about public health because it's pure populism, which you're saying because you're doing completely different. You say: We are for public health, we must not be rich, we must not have private practice, etc. You didn't solve anything in the marriage. It's here to trust Desus and SD. You definitely didn't listen to them in that context either. I'm saying you said you'd do it, but you didn't. Concessionists are part of public health, and therefore we need to know that when we talk about concessionaires, you talk about public health; they are part of public health. And if the Minister restricts them, he restricts public health. Whatever you want. I have also heard in the parliamentary groups about privatisation to advocate the privatisation of health care, etc. I'm not talking about this today – I mean, it's totally wrong anyway – but I'm talking about the Minister bringing things so far away that she just doesn't see the way out, not the doctors, not the patients, not the coalition anymore. But the Minister will insist to the end. If the Health and Health Insurance Act is the same as it predicted, it will be a complete dysar in the country. Such confusion and chaos as it is now in health care has not yet occurred. And I answer to my colleague Simona Kustec Lipicer, the leader of the SMC Group, who talked about how for a time I don't know which governments, including ours, there was no monitoring of waiting periods. The basis for the monitoring of waiting periods was set in 2008, and 2011 started on NIJS data. And when she asked if until 2012, someone was dealing with patients, if no one was lying. And that's what I hope to say to myself publicly. He's lying. Because if no one's dealing with patients, we don't need the Ministry of Health, and we don't need these things. However, SMC did something else, or Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc. But with the new Law on Patient Rights, he's putting an end to these things. That's what you've been able to do. And you're talking about how no one deals with patients, that in the time of our government it didn't run, etc. 2011, look at the NIJS, who does not believe, you can now go online – 2011 are up the first data. SMC's shutting it down. With the implementation of the Patient Rights Act, waiting periods will no longer be conducted in the way they are to date or in public, I now speak publicly, we will no longer be able to monitor this on the website, so you will be able to manipulate these matters as much as you like. And it's unfair to talk about how you care about patients. Under the new Law on Patient Rights, the NIJ will no longer publish the number of waiting at the level of urgency, the number of waiting above the maximum permissible waiting period after the level of urgency, the expected waiting period after the level of urgency, the unrealised waiting period after the level of urgency. What does that mean? So the public will no longer be informed. More of this statistics, which we keep giving to you today as a mirror of your work, will no longer be. This will no longer happen, and then you will also be able to give EDP even more untransparently than today. You have heard from the coalition partners that the EDP, i.e. one-off additional programmes to shorten waiting periods, should be more transparent with calls. Now you'll be able to do even more, I'll say, under the table, assign and distribute. And we have also heard today – not only on our side, on the other hand, but also on the other hand, statistics show again – that waiting periods in your mandate are increasing; they jumped enormously out there in early 2013 and then grow enormously in 2014-2016. Let's take a look at the statistics that they're doing to you, including by coalition partners, professional associates, for free. You have ordered an analysis of the Slovenian healthcare system abroad for, I don't know, 340 000 euros, but you can't see it or how, and you're shortening waiting periods. How do you shorten them? Millions and millions fly to hospitals, public hospitals that EDP simply cannot produce. On the Health Committee, we heard that UKC Ljubljana had not even completed the regular programme, not only to make an additional programme allocated to it at the Ministry of Health. In 2016, UKC Ljubljana performed this EDP of 9 % in coronary angiography. Interventions and spinal surgery 0%. Well, now we're at these spinal cords at orthopaedics. Let's say an orthopedic shoulder surgery of 27 percent. And last year, after these statistics that you sent me from the Ministry, you realized that the UKC couldn't do it. And last year, you or this year, when you were working on this new EDP, could assign other operators meeting the conditions. Now, who are those contractors that meet the conditions? Of course, you do not want to hear about private health because private health is not financed by public funds, which the court has already decided differently, and this will also be an interesting matter. But I am interested in how it is now, Madam Minister, with these contracts and the allocation of funds for the operation, i.e. on orthopedics. How's it going back there with this contractor? Does he have a contract of concession for the hospital? Not if he has a concession. If he has a signed concession contract for hospital activities. If she doesn't have one, Madam Secretary, why isn't she signed? What's the reason? Next thing you know, colleague Simona Kustec Lipicer said: "We have made important milestones. Our Minister has done a great deal in this mandate. It is a stable ministerial structure." Come on, there's another secretary-general sitting next to each other. I don't know who to turn to anymore. Mrs. Sandra Tušar promised us an analysis of baby heart surgery, next month she was gone. Yes, now you're laughing, Madam Minister, but that's a fact. When you come to the board with your colleagues, others, we don't know who the secretary is again, you don't know who to turn to. You're not usually here, and then it's for every other lady and she tells everyone else. You can't keep one word anymore. So, stable ministerial structure, nothing. You've made important milestones, a real colleague, namely, you've set up emergency centres. Yeah, that wasn't your project. Because if this were your project, Madam Secretary, then you're a super minister. The emergency centres have really started in our government with Mr. Brucan. Yes, I'm not laughing at you because the emergency centres, Madam Minister, don't build in one year. I'm talking about the whole system; the building can already be built, but then it can continue. Don't brag about the fact that you've only opened the emergency centres, because you haven't been able to cover them financially yet. [[…]] Even now, emergency centres talk about problems, personnel, finance, etc., and they don't find each other. And you, Minister, shake both eyes. As far as we're concerned, it's time for us to get to the doctor's house very quickly, I agree. With a home doctor or family, you really do come to your turn at any time, or very, I have to say, flexible, nothing. But if you come to Ljubljana, God help you, and there's 13 hours waiting for you, and then you have messages like that. I'll take the medical card because I'd rather die at home than here. Madam Minister, you promised to open the emergency room and IPP, I think it was May 2017, because you moved it twice, but as far as I can remember the last answer to the question, it was May 2017. And please let me know what's going on with this opening, how far away you are with the operators. She also says that it is no better than the Medical Service Act, because now young doctors will be able to stay in Slovenia, have a job and so on. Let us look at social networks, as the young doctors wrote: “We do not growl, we go abroad.” That's what the Medical Services Act did. This is their answer, Madam Minister, to your marriage because you told the board that a better marriage is not for young doctors. A representative of young doctors, however, asked Members not to adopt such a law, because this means preventing young doctors from working. You didn't listen to them, just like you didn't listen to the coalition. You don't listen to anyone, Madam Secretary. I don't know, well, then it wouldn't be public. That doesn't hurt a man. You don't give a shit if they say, "We don't jam, we go abroad"? You don't care about that? It seems to me that it is not as simple and that we can ask ourselves when young doctors who are trained in Slovenia are going abroad. And they are happy to go abroad, although they know that there is heavy bread abroad and it is difficult to live somewhere, but what is happening here is simply not tolerated anymore. And don't say that the marriage is great and awesome, that it's oh and in general and that it will save young doctors. There are other things, but maybe later. My colleague also says we're the best on all the indicators. We are, yes, we are in the first place in corruption, aren't we, first or second, really the best. And the Minister for this at all, of course, although in 2014 the invitation to tender in UKC Ljubljana for vascular resistors – let me repeat again, I don't know how many times – showed that prices can be much lower. And the minister did not react to at least tell the other hospitals: Look, from now on at prices like those in UKC Ljubljana, because they are twice as low or three times lower. No, no, we make a common base, and we're still waiting for a joint public order. And then you say it was all O.K. with this joint public order that it was published in English. Yes, it was, Madam Secretary, for an intervention. My question was on this subject, and Dr. Night asked the expert committee to do so in English. Then you put it upstairs, and then you threw it before. You're talking about insurance lobbying, and you're bragging about how this minister is advocating for a health system that would serve the patients. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc was Secretary of State responsible for taxes and the customs system at the Ministry of Finance in 1993. In 1999, he introduces a tax, VAT – which is why it is called the mother of taxes, which is what they call it in the media – and then Mr Keber, the Minister of Health, who is today your advisor, shouted a lot about how these VAT will destroy health care and some experts even wanted these health taxes to be disregarded and Minister Keber, therefore, achieved a reduction of VAT to 9.5 for health, to at least a slight reduction in matters. Ah, no, it's not Mr. Keber, no, you've reached then. Yes, because, given the statements you make in public at the time and today, I would expect you to say that VAT has been introduced, but then you were the ones who said no to health care. But 2011 will become Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, President of the Board of Mutual Affairs. At that time, you said that you had prevented the reform of Kebre, which wanted to shift from supplementary health insurance to the budget. Then you said, "No, but no, I was the one who stopped Mr. Kebra from doing this." Today, on the contrary, of course, with the same adviser, Mr Kebro, they are publicly declaring how good you are, that you are now putting this education activity on the budget. Every year, it will be necessary to negotiate for this money in the budget in order to really make money enough for education, professional training of doctors. It does not know how much longer it will be, as the budget will be, so you will negotiate, Madam Minister. And don't brag about saving your waiting days because you don't. Then again, I can tell you how the waiting periods are increasing in your term of office. Well, you want to raise the bonus by 4 euros on the Mutual, which then turns out to be too much and you're asked to return it to the citizens. That's not what you want. Back then, those years, the Mutual had such a big profit that you're talking about, about insurance lobbying. At that time, 2012, because Milojka Kolar Celarc demanded an increase of 4 euros in the premium, the Mutual made a big profit and that is why you were suspended, Madam Minister, because you did not want to return those differences that were overpaid to the citizens. That's when they replaced you. And it wasn't until the next director recovered those expenses. And today it is unfair of you, Madam Minister, to talk about insurance lobbying. Only in terms of how you speak as personal revenge is because you were dismissed from the Mutual because you made such profits there that it was a horror of horror and you didn't want to return the money. So much for what the secretary is saying today or someday and today. That's exactly what she said years ago, no, that's what she's doing today. And Madam Minister, you are saying that you have made all the mechanisms to avoid conflicts of interest. Once again, I ask you what you've done and how the coalition can look at this peacefully. It's about Mr. Pohône. The President of the Commission in the State Social Security Council and signes, of course, and gives opinions in the National Assembly, comes as a representative of the Council of State, gives opinions on the laws that he co-creates with you at the Ministry, is paid for that, which he co-creates at the SMC and is I don't know, it's probably paid or he's doing that and he's so good that he works for free. [[…]] Finally, he gives an opinion on a law that he himself draws up at the Ministry or within the SMC, because obviously SD Desus does not cooperate. Madam Minister, I will read your statement, and let me answer what you have done on this. “As Minister, I strongly insist on the principle of zero tolerance for corruption, so in the work of the Ministry and the working groups and commissions in which Mr Požun, including external experts, is involved, especially in the field of health, we have introduced a system for the declaration of possible or actual conflict of interest and the exclusion of these individuals and from cooperation or decision-making.” How can a person at the Ministry who advises and writes with you then put a proposal on this law in the State Council? And of course, everything is positive. It would be weird if it was negative. Let me answer about this principle of yours, the fight against corruption. And the next question is: Madam Minister, what will happen now with a transparent common public order for vascular resistors? You have experienced the biggest debacle at a press conference where the doctor told you what the Ministry and the Government should do in this case – so that these suppliers, who are working from the country, report to the manufacturer, the European Commission and that these suppliers have nothing to do with public health services from now on. I would like to know, Madam Minister, what are these bilateral talks with you, and with whom you have discussed these matters, including with other countries. Mr Glajar said that you are negotiating bilaterally on a monthly basis with those countries that also feel the same way, so that the European market for Slovenia is not in line. I would ask for answers as to what these countries are like and what these discussions were like and what the conclusions or objectives of these discussions are. When are we going to experience something like this in Slovenia? And now I wonder if you think that Slovenia is not in the single European market, which is very strange. Then what did you do? Did you inform, I don't know, the Foreign Ministry, the Treasury, the Prime Minister of the government to do something about it? These were statements at the press conference, that's what people were listening to, and now they want answers, what's on it and what's on it. On Twitter, the Ministry of Health today stated that the information system in Slovenia works 90% – 90% is not 100%. So all services are not yet included, so it does not work! And now it doesn't work in this 90% either. You have my application at the Ministry. But now it's already a fifth passenger I haven't been able to get, or my doctor doesn't, to order. I'll explain the last case to you now, and then you can check it out. The last case is a travel agent fast, that's three months. I came into the system even now after the new, I look, three contractors give me: the first operator offers that the service is possible immediately in September, the second in October and the third in February. I click on the first performer, the system error, click on the second performer, the system error, click on the third performer, write to me that there will be triage and they will look at my passenger if everything is O.K., it's the same ministry that answered me. But Madam Minister, it's three months fast, September to October, November to December, three months. And what did the Ministry say to me? Let me sign up for a third contractor because there's a system malfunction. But according to the Law on Patient Rights, Minister, it's fast for three months and not February. And I'm not going to apply there, because it's my right to be there in three months, and I want a favor in three months. And the Ministry says to me: Apply to the third contractor offering February services. I'm not signing up. But if I come more than three months in a row, I'm going to appeal to the Ombudsman for the patient's rights. What happens then, because I can't go to whoever has services in September – I call a doctor, I have seven calls, I can't go. Because even under the Patient Rights Act, it's not a phone call. And then I go and I write an e-mail with an e-mail number. I have to say that the sister was very kind, they were very kind, I don't really have any comment on their work, but the seven emails were in the middle of us talking about when I had my review. I described the previous one to you; it was so that I had to send even the mail and then I got the reply back by mail. I've also had a quick tip, and I'm in a year's turn, and I'm gonna wait, not like some people write, because you politicians can pay for your privacy. No, I'll be waiting in line to tell you the same thing in six months. And because I don't want to be privileged and I'll be waiting in these waiting periods that you're doing, Madam Minister. And now tell me how the Ministry of Health can answer me to apply to an operator who offers me a waiting period more than it is fast. Now you explain to me how you can do this. The law on patient rights, three months, you tell me, apply for one who has six months. Unresponsible from the Ministry; it would have been better if we'd been quiet, but we wouldn't have written anything back to me. So not everything is as pink as Mrs Kustec Lipicer says it is not all as pink as Milojka Kolar Celarc says. And today we have also heard from other parliamentary groups that it is far from flowering in Slovenian health. And my colleague said that when she knocks on our door, health care is the best way to feel: “At the door of the spirit, when we can’t help each other anymore, we need an expert.” I'd say so. I'm asking my colleague to apply to an expert, because according to his statements, I'm going to be very nice right now. And let him sign up because the waiting periods are very long. That's why. Because the statements that the colleague made also indicate that you didn't actually look at it, because she said so many lies, even with those waiting periods or keeping waiting periods that's easy and that's the last thing I'm going to comment on. [[…]] Madam Minister, you said, I think even in the interpellation it says that we've taken you personally, we insult you. I don't know if you take the criticism at the expense of your work personally. If you take them personally, then you're not the right person in this job. You're not. Because here in the National Assembly, there are many who can tell; if each thing were to be taken personally, I don’t think half of them would be sitting here anymore. I think you have to accept the criticism, but the criticism was last year, it was this year, and I believe that good, this government will never again be. [[…]] And if you were, theoretically, you wouldn't be a minister anymore. So, two terms are off the table. What do you think you're doing right now? But I'm afraid that what you're going to do next will be for the next government that comes, bad, bad, bad. And it's gonna be hard to fix these things that you're gonna do with that law you're thinking about. People don't even know how much they're going to pay for a medical check. And what they'll get for it, what they don't know today. But then again, because right now, my colleagues are going to say so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mr. Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u24	President, thank you for your word. Nice greeting, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary! Today we will undoubtedly be long, many times we will repeat ourselves, many times on one side and on the other we will probably hear many of the same facts, the same arguments, but nothing about it. We will not change our views, the interpellations and their supporters, or the silent supporters, are unlikely. However, someone watching this session will likely eventually create a picture of what the actual situation is and in the final stage, what is right and what is wrong, according to some of their own criteria. Our client knows what we're defending. We have advocated public health from the first day forward and we are fighting for the public health system to be preserved. This must be of course, clear, modern, accessible, quality and so on. And, of course, that's what we're working on. And of course there are many on this path who persist in opposition and, of course, the pollens that throw them under their feet are only a mild word for it. We are definitely talking about – and that is the essence of the problem – two different concepts. We advocate public, accessible, for all equally accessible – both for those on the social floor and for those who are, I will say, more powerful – and not for the system and not for the state, but for the concept that some others represent, where we will have health care for the poorer and we will have health care for the richer. Of course, something must be created for that first. This health system needs to be privatized in the way that it is, of course, suitable for you, or suited to those you support or supported, as you would like, because you know how the system works. I must say that I, too, was a little confused after these presentations by the positions of the parliamentary groups, when a coalition party also spoke about the privatisation of health and how they oppose, as if this ministry, this government and this coalition advocated the privatisation of health care and how they opposed it. We are, of course, opposed, because we are together in a coalition and we are finally this coalition treaty, which speaks against it, against privatisation in such a cruel way. [[…]] That is why I must say that I did not understand that position very well, but I believe that they will then explain it more in the debate. And the basic concept of this public or private, if gravely demarcated; it is that publicly, as we understand it, it must be that these services, as I said, are quality, safe, good, fast and so forth, are accessible to all people. So it's about people and it's about patients. In your case it is the first interest of individuals and then far away, because it certainly suits you, even for the interests of patients, where you are a great advocate of these interests and, of course, take the one where it hurts most – waiting times – which we all understand very well what it is, if you need an intervention and you have to wait, and then build a structure on this as to how the system sucks. And I'll talk about these concepts later. We probably need to agree – I do not expect you to agree – that the greatest acquisition in this independent Slovenia, all that we have achieved from the independence and sovereignty of this country – is accessibility and relative equality in the social system, in the education system, in the health system. And that's what we should be proud of. But no, this relative egalitarianism, of course, can never suit political opponents, because people need to be divided and, of course, set two poles. Nor does it suit those who have any of these — and we know this — financial benefits. And I'll talk about it later. Today we have witnessed a third interpretation against this minister. First of all, 18 October 2016. Almost a year ago. Then the Government's intervention on 23 November 2016 and the last attempt on 13 September 2017, i.e. today. And all these interpolations were unsuccessful. They were all unsuccessful. And no matter how you want to show the situation in the coalition and how the coalition is divided and just before the collapse, this signal is that these interpolations do not go through, one pretty good signal that this coalition works well. Why the interpolation? I've already said it twice, and I'm going to be the third time, and I'm probably going to be a few more times by the end of my discussion. These interpretations are, among other things, or in the vast majority, because the interests of individuals are at stake. And since we are talking about the health field today, of course they are individuals from the health system. And I'll talk about it later. Now, let's look at who the proponent of this interpretation is; of course, no one has talked about this today. And that's what we should be more concerned about in the whole thing than the things and problems that you've brought down. Some of the real ones are being saved; some are such that they cannot be saved in a short time. But there are also the deceptions that you mentioned in the meantime. Who's the proposer? Slovenian Democratic Party. I understand this political game, the opposition-coalition, I understand all that. But when a certain political party starts, a parliamentary party declares itself to be serious, severely patriotic and I don't know what to do against its own country, but there is an expression for it. They're called the fifth column. And I'm going to explain why I think you in this country are five-wheelers on the political floor. And I don't have to probably explain the fifth column, what that means. But I'll tell you in case. If I start. First, a case that's been going on for a while. That is to say, your engagement and your opposition to investment in the second track. An investment that essentially places Slovenia on a map of the world that connects Slovenia with the world and ensures the development of the economy, logistics and the connection of Slovenia with the world. [[advertising from the hall]] Not just that. It also provides a very important role in these links. And you and your client, of course, object. He wants the project, which has finally been brought into effect for so many years, to fall. That's what you say, you're working against your country. I just want to say what you really are, and in fact, you're not as clean as you declare yourself to be, either some patient protector or patriotic, but you're harmful to this country. And not only are you harmful, you're even dangerous. With this last reference to the Committee on Defence meeting, you have indeed crossed the line of common sense and taste in essence, because this and so on do not go much, but in fact you have placed our country on a world map among other developed countries in the same rank as some other countries, reading those other countries or other countries that are in some relationship with the Republic of Slovenia. And you have not helped our country do what it can, but you will do everything to ensure that this implementation of the arbitral judgment does not happen. Besides, you're doing one very dangerous thing. You spread hatred, you establish a situation that is not there, and by doing so you are opening Pandora's box, while at the same time blacking out the position of our country. And this is where I end up. I just wanted to say and describe who is the proponent of this interpretation. You're not with that saintly shine over your head, surely not. Come in. Who, then, are the other supporters of this interpretation, at least in view of the views previously expressed in the views of the members of the groups? Like New Slovenia. We all know that this party is well connected with insurance companies offering supplementary health insurance. And since, of course, the coalition contract as the coming Health and Health Insurance Act provides for the termination of this supplementary insurance, of course, everything must be done to ensure that this does not happen. I've talked about this before. And instead of having more than 10 million profits generated from this title of this insurance company and from which other insurance would come into the health system or remain in the health system, which means for patients what you do not want to hear – of course shorter waiting periods, which are also due to the financial, but not only the financial, they are against this minister and against this policy of this government. [[...]] And that at a time when certain public health institutions are dealing with losses, even because someone on the other hand is making profits, and that is unjustifiable today. However, since they are exempt from this public health treasury, they can accumulate these surpluses and consume them differently. And that's not right. That's not right. That should worry all of us. All of us, who, because of 50 million a year, for example, create surpluses from this title of insurance companies offering supplementary health insurance, are disadvantaged. For these 50 million we are all deprived. Before I go any further, I would just like to take a brief look at the views that were previously communicated. As I mentioned in the introduction, I do not know when we, in the coalition, fought for the privatisation of health care or privileged privacy to the public and so on, because we claim that health is not an area of the market, and health is not the good that is being traded with. Pika. Did I misinterpret you, I believe you'll explain it to me further. But the impression came — and I know the matter — as if this ministry wanted to: privatize and make some health elites; so I understood, if I misunderstood, I apologize. At the same time, you also called on the Ministry to work very actively until the end of the term of office. And now, as a colleague, because we work on the same committees, I am returning the same invitation to you to work actively. The Health and Health Insurance Act, which is prepared and for which many strongly doubt that it will see the light of the world, is of cardinal importance for this health system. And at the invitation of the Minister to work to the end – I believe – the call will also be for coalition partners, that the mandate is not over and that it is necessary to work to the end until the elections, whenever they are. Now, let's go back to what it's all about. So now the government has to decide whether to serve the capital or to serve the people. And the concept chosen by this coalition is that it will serve people. And this is the basic premise in whose interest the system is set — whether it is set up for patients or set up for those individuals who make very large profits in this healthcare system, and very little of which will end up having a patient. Concessions are such a beautiful area that you can very well describe what the point is. Next week, we will also discuss at the plenary session of the National Assembly the Health Act, which defines and specifies more precisely what has not been the case so far, when and in which cases concessions will be awarded, in a transparent way, through public calls, under certain conditions, for some time and so on. Until today or until this term, and in particular in some mandates – and I will not go to, fear not, within your mandate, Esdes's mandate and Minister Bručan, when these concessions have been awarded wildly after, I suppose, mostly friendly connections – but will now only be when necessary. That is, when the need for patients and the health system, and not when the need of an individual who has built it, will equip an ambulance, until yesterday, to work in a public health institution, and then, if possible, as the only specialist in this area, departs to resign in a public health institution, waits a month, goes to a health insurance company in Slovenia, as it happened, the Health Insurance Institute in Slovenia, takes note of the funds, goes to a minister who is possibly still party-close, gets a concession overnight, even 50 per night, if necessary, and such a system works. Now, here's the thing. As long as we have hospitals whose founder is a state as long as we have health homes that are the founders of municipalities, we have some infrastructure that is public to patients that is accessible – they all get in one place – which is equipped, which has some tradition and which also has some logic in the final phase, if you want. And if a service is taken to a public health institution, where this machination that I described earlier is done, and the concession is awarded to someone else, then at least what it is, you basically deprived this patient of someone, I'm not going to say accessibility, more commodity. Now we come to the point of the problem. And that's not a problem either; you can say, because the patient got the service before, and then he'll get it. And you will claim that the concessionaire receives an even better service. Probably where. Many, however, are probably better at public health than at which concessionaire. So these judgements are very much so But the concessionaire receives services that are performed within his concession, not within the framework of a self-payment ambulance, which, of course, he can also perform. [[…]] Gets public funds, gets this service paid by the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. And in public health institutions, according to the legislation that we have, even if they create surpluses, these surpluses must remain in the system, they must be earmarked for investments, that is, spaces, equipment and so on. The money stays in the system. Even because of the system and the legislation that it was and will be by next week, the concessionaires — even if they did not have to be extremely resourceful — would create surpluses from this public money that did not remain in the healthcare system and were not for any future benefit to the patient or patient. Because if a public health agency has surpluses, it buys some new equipment, it means higher quality, faster service, all plus for patients. With the concessionaire, this surplus creates and goes into his pocket. But you know, the concession system isn't for this concessionaire to get rich at the expense of public funds. He has so much room to make extra money because most concessionaires — except those unhappy ones in family medicine, because they do not have so many options in this area — also have self - paying outpatients. So for that market part, we don't have to worry about these concessionaires. Because, according to informal information, and even after what some of them know to be honest, these surpluses that they create are quite high. And here's a catch of this. And that is why you want this Health Act, which will be under review next week, of course, to end. This marriage has long had a beard, of course it has been spinning for a long time after the coalition, then it has come to Parliament, and you have invoked before the law has come to Parliament, it has already been sitting. And when you saw this marriage actually come to an end, did you do something? First interpolation. This is because you calculated that this minister must fall because if this minister falls, it is likely that, of course, complete legislation will also stop. You didn't make it. Then, of course, an intermediate attempt was also involved in the interpretation of the government, but it was a more political act than the substantive one itself. And today we're back in this field. I can't get past those medical organizations, associations that actually hurt patients. Not that they harm the health system because they have their own logic, legitimately, everyone has their own views, but that in the end the victim is a patient or a patient hostage, which is unacceptable. And these are the ones who are bound by Hippocrates' oaths, and they're literally making a fool of us as patients. If that's normal for you and if that's acceptable for you, then it just confirms my thesis from the previous debate. In order to further argue this, I will read to you the instructions of the family medicine doctor, the president of the PRACTIK union. UM, this is a family medicine union; this call was during the negotiations between Fides and the Ministry of Health, where he gave the following call to his colleagues, family doctors. These are the doctors we have, everyone has a personal doctor; that's the one who's usually there in the health center, where you go when you get the heat, get the hospital paper, and so on, to make it easier to understand. And these are the doctors who, when needed, are medical, of course, refer us to a specialist level for further investigation or treatment. And now from all this letter that was sent to all the family doctors, I'm just going to read you some clippings. First of all: “The terminology we use is planned to be somewhat harshly written because it must not be misinterpreted that it is an invitation to non-professional and critical writing of the guides.” Which, of course, is what we're going to do, but we're going to communicate a little differently, so they won't say that's it. So it's already in the letter that he admits what it's all about. Further: "Even if you do not agree with the measure, do it more because of the urgency of the changes." That is to say, travel to patients who do not need any further examinations, send them as many as possible to hospitals for examinations so that there will be long waiting periods. Because if there are long waiting periods, you have something to talk about, if there are long waiting periods, it is always a useful tool, because we all understand it well, against the government, against the ministry, against anyone who, of course, works in this area. And of course, finally, if there are waiting periods, we can also serve very well at the final stage. If the waiting period in the public health service is too long, where does the man who can afford it go? It's self-sustaining. Where does this usually go? Yes, or to concessionaires who have this self-paying component, or to clean individuals who do not have a concession. And the circle is closed. Thus, the created need and then we serve well from this created need. This is, of course, only one reason for waiting periods, that it will not turn out to be the only one. But I'm just talking about how perverted certain medical organizations work. The next one is undoubtedly the Medical Chamber, which is also an actor with whom you are well-packed or even more compacted earlier, under the previous President, who is constantly attacking, whatever the Ministry wants or does. And this is the organization that is, to the best of all, responsible for the lack of doctors in this country. They were responsible and empowered to call for specialisations. They were intended in certain areas — anesthesiology and rheumatology elsewhere — they were not invited. On purpose. Why? To create an elite in certain health areas, which, of course, can then extort, if you want, also a country, how they will work, where they will not work, where these services will not be located, where these services will be placed, they will set a price freely. And it's overturned. Well, finally with this government, this matter has ceased and at least these proposals for specialisations have finally been taken into their own hands and revised in terms of the needs that this public health system actually has. And thank God, in the coming years, this influx of new doctors will be sufficient, including, of course, at the expense of these measures. Waiting years. You're all exhibiting waiting periods. These are very suitable tools. But waiting periods are everywhere. And when you talk about waiting periods, of course, it would be nice – because, as usual, I had heard some comparative requirements yesterday – to put this a little bit in the context of another country. I had just read an article in the Austrian newspaper where patients complained about waiting for 8 weeks for some X-ray examination; a patient suspected of having cancer, waiting for 8 weeks for some X-ray, probably a CT scan; but that doesn't matter now. With us, I'll explain, no, in this case, it doesn't matter, because if you're suspicious of us, [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] If you'll excuse me, colleague, I'm discussing it now, and then you'll have a few more hours. In short, if there is a suspicion of cancer, the patient comes — and of course it is paid — for such a diagnostic examination immediately, I do not have to wait 8 weeks. If you're going to say no, then help me with the information. Come in. In Sweden, where we probably agree that the Scandinavian social and health system is probably close to what we can say is ideal; the state of Sweden has put a billion billion billion into this health system to reduce waiting periods. Can you guess whether they've gone short or not? They didn't cut much. Now, what does that tell you? Are there many who benefit from the system there? Is this perhaps as in Slovenia, Austria, Italy, Sweden and around the world due to changes, demographic changes that cannot be said to be; the population is getting older, the need for health services is, of course, increasing, health technology is becoming increasingly expensive, so, of course, it is not as much as it should be, and the need for diagnostics is, of course, growing due to this, which is also very likely the most important cause of waiting times. To say that this ministry is now to blame for these waiting periods is about as much as to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is to blame, I don't know, for global warming. There are things that you do not have an impact on, but of course you need to adapt to these facts and resolve this situation. That's another thing. As far as this game of medical organizations is concerned, I've already told you. And this play by creating these waiting days is very much reversed and to support such policies is very worrying. Now, with regard to the measures that this Government has taken in the area of waiting periods. In addition to additional funding, which will continue to be earmarked for the reduction of waiting periods in 2016, 2017, legislative changes are also mentioned again in the Health Act, which will allow, for example, the family doctor to start working earlier or to define patients earlier than today's legislation. And in family medicine, well, you'll say, there are no waiting periods, thank God. That means you can practically go to your family doctor if you decide, and now you can find a hole. You're leaving now, or you're leaving tomorrow, but we can't say it's a waiting period. Then the very technology of managing these waiting periods and cleaning these waiting lists and these pilot projects, which have shown what is wrong with these waiting lists, that we will not now be able to argue with numbers and speak as if this is a healthy fact. I agree, let's see how much waiting time there is for some intervention, and then it would be nice if the ministry would say, look, in this area we found that there are not so many of them suitable for intervention, so many of them don't need to be intervened, so many won't go into action, or they won't go there, or they've already done it, or whatever. Then this is the real state. And then from some number, we get that real number. And this, of course, you clearly take because we have different waiting periods for different health care providers. For example, it may be 30 days, somewhere else, usually in Ljubljana are the longest, but it is 90 days. And you'll say 90 days is enough to wait. Yeah, but the patient has a choice, a free choice. You can go where it is for 30 days now. And that's why operating on these numbers can be misleading. Corruption. You've mentioned corruption many times. An absolutely problematic area, like everyone else, in the health field. But there are also steps and changes in this area. Either you want it or you don't want it, this minister is the first minister of health to actually make a drug price register. It's never been done before. Previously, in Murska Sobota they were able to buy and sell at such prices, in Ljubljana at such prices, in Koper at such prices. Nobody knew what they were paying for. [[advertising from the hall]] My colleague, you're gonna, you're gonna get your turn, don't be nervous. We've got plenty of time. We've got 12 hours to go. More than enough time. [[advertising from the hall]] And what did that have to do with anything? Mr President, I would only ask if you could calm your colleagues down so that I can discuss this further. Yes, when they discuss, no matter what I think about their debates, I am at least silent.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u25	Please, if you'd really let your friend say it to the end. Then you'll be able to [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural or whatever or [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Not right away. You don't have a word. Mr. Zorman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, what did this drug price register have to do with anything? Drug price unification. And what used to be more expensive is now being paid cheaper and there's still money for something else in the healthcare system. Furthermore, common public orders, hospital medicines, technical aids and so on [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u27	Mr. Marian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u28	All of this is to avoid potential corruption. Of course, there is before, for example, a supplier and a doctor may have agreed, then this doctor recommended something to order – because we know that we have a commission in the National Assembly that is investigating it. [[…]] We know how these practices used to go. All of these measures are essentially reducing all of these opportunities for corruption to the smallest possible part. But with a human factor, we can never do that. And if we look at this last invitation to tender for vascular resistors – which the colleague will likely then also be on this investigative committee – I suppose she will explain for a long time – it is clear that this is the following. On this invitation to tender for vascular resistors, where the maximum price and all the criteria were precisely defined, nine tenderers, one of them foreign, were registered and all offered higher prices than those set by the Ministry as maximum prices. What does that mean? But now we're at this human factor or capital factor -- if this isn't a cartel agreement, then I don't know what it is. At the same time, the Competition Protection Agency is investigating this matter, and I believe that it will eventually find that this is a cartel agreement. Of course, the Ministry did not buy this and the invitation to tender was cancelled and is recommiting. But what I'm trying to say is that the game of these stakeholders, those who benefit from it, is very cruel. Finally, the Ministry defends public funds at the final stage in order to remain for patients, and in this way the money flows out of the system or would be out of the system and would not be out for patients. You also mentioned MD Medicine, where it has been explained many times – I understand, some obviously not – that there was nothing wrong here. And you're saying that the Minister has granted a concession to this medical institution of MD Medicine. Of course, if this remains in the air and is not answered, then you say, the minister is corrupt, she has issued an illegal concession, she should not, and so on, but at the same time we are adopting a law to regulate it. Look at her, look at her! I believe that then the Minister – I hope – will explain this as soon as possible, because I think this is a very important fact and an important story on which you are building this campaign. In fact, it's just like fear — there's nothing out there, but there's a hole in it. Does it seem to you that when it comes to how careful she is, too often, she would sign an illegal concession by adopting a law to regulate it? This is supposed to be a suicide. What was done in this mandate was mentioned by the Emergency Centres, and it is not thanks to this Minister. Yes, I agree, they started building earlier, but they finished because of this government, which managed to provide funds, with a public call for equipment – then together – to save a few million, and we now have these emergency centres and operate, even though they may not work optimally at some point, but work. And people, patients again, all of us citizens, when we need it, we have a significantly better quality health care that we need in this emergency when it comes to life or death, and that's what we should be interested in. But, no, you don't care, it's without a connection, even if it wasn't, which of course isn't true, but the important thing is that they don't work the way they should, it's an important fact. However, the fact that we have a historic leap in emergency medical care, and even more historically it will be complemented by the operation of dispatch centres that are already installed, already equipped and no longer lacked enough by the start of operation We have helicopter emergency medical assistance in Maribor, which we have so far not had, which means that complete Eastern Slovenia is covered with helicopter emergency medical assistance when it had to fly from Brno earlier. [[...]] But you know how to calculate time, even though it's airborne, it probably took some time; I'm not talking about availability. But it's nothing again. It's nothing again. Law enforcement. A number of legislation would have been adopted or significantly more legislation would have been adopted if it were clear when you were saying that we should go together – I don't know who said in the position, I think that one of the opposition, yes, NSI – would change it; but every time something is proposed, you go to the opposite position, because this is not in line with your concept. [[…]] And here I don't expect you to agree. Of course, views of a system can be different, they can be spoken one way or another, and then, in the end, an account that is better or how much it costs or what it costs is earned for it. I will then finally stop by the law, which is definitely the most important law of this mandate in the health field, and this is the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will come, I believe, to Parliament by the end of this year. How's it going? Some of you have already thrown a rifle into the corn, and it's over and we've been less than a year before the elections, and it's over, and there's nothing left to do. I can't take this any more. I can't take this any more. I already said at a meeting of the Health Committee yesterday where we adopted the Law on Intervention Measures for the Financial Recovery of Public Health Institutions: Yes, we will now put additional money into this health system and, of course, patients will benefit from it. But that's not enough. Without the adoption of a law that will regulate funding that will regulate new sources of funding that will make the system fairer and more robust, which is not now, when it redefines rights and also in this respect makes it fair when it redefines the role of the payer – the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, which will have more powers, a new role, a more cost-effective negotiation, and a more price-based approach, and so on, that we do not go into details – without this health system being able to survive in the long run. And if you are asking us to do something together, let us end up simply asking who we are working for or whose interests we are defending. We defend patients' interests. Do you like them, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like you to stay away from grades, especially such radical ones, but talk about facts. Secondly, of course, I would ask that we remain in the dark, this is health. And third, please, if there's no shouting then from the bench, let's calm down a bit. Thank you very much. So, Mrs Jelka Godec first called, and then the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u30	President, first your word. What you just said should be right at the beginning. At the time when Colleague Zorman started the Slovenian Democratic Party and all its members were identified as five-year-olds. I do this as a member of the party and as a Member do not allow a Member of the National Assembly to designate me and all members as enemies of the State. You work your enemies alone, not on the side of the Esdees, but you will make enemies among the people themselves. To mark someone for that, you have to have solid evidence to destroy the country. And these are your statements to report, and this is for the declaration of an enemy speech, Mr. Zorman, which you have set up for those committees that you do have, in order to punish. It's embarrassing for the MP. Infringement on a personal level. Today it is not the subject of interpolation, as the President has now said, of dissatisfaction by members of a party, and of bringing them together in a way, so again in this second class, that we are five-wheelers, that is not today. There is a minister's job today, and you have no idea what the Minister's job is, or you have no argument to defend it with, so you're mixing the fog. And half of your double debate was just fog mixing. Mixing and mixing. And defending with some arguments that don't stand anywhere. Where's your evidence, Mr. Zorman? So, president, I think that in such cases, psychologically, someone should also have some kind of waiting line I am very sorry, but what you have done today is shameful for a Member. [[…]] Mr Zorman, if you have so much to say in defence of the Minister, you could devote two hours to what the meeting is intended to do today, not to malign the Members and members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You can't afford this in Parliament. But you can do this in a bar somewhere. Such hate speech was spoken by someone in 1936, 1935 about the Jews. And that's how you marked them. Like enemies of the people, those who are against the people, those who steal people. We listened to or listened to such talks, we did not, thank God. Thank God we didn't and we experienced what happened. I thought you'd be more into Desus and SD, because they're not gonna tell you they stabbed you in the back, but they set you up with a mirror today. [[…]] It's a very nice mirror. You're not yourself. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me? I don't have a procedure. I have as a proponent, Mr. Zorman, let's hold on, listen a little bit, but because you're convinced of your thoughts, which are sometimes a little bit, and you don't even know what's going on here. [[…]] You've shown this in your debate. Good. If you are so concerned about public health or if you have no argument to defend the Minister, you say: We are for public health, we are for patients. We don't go to privates, probably concessionaires, do we? The President of the Government is with the concessionaire, and you are the concessionaires here, as if they were the ugliest in the world. If you are so for public health, if you are so for patients to shorten waiting periods, then open the EDP for everyone. It's a public invitation. Let anyone who has a permit have all the conditions, one who can shorten waiting periods. Then open it if you want to, for the patients. Why don't you open this if that's the case? Until you stop these things and talk about how bad concessionaires are, how private people don't know everything, be quiet, because public health doesn't just mean they're public hospitals. Where's that public money going? In my opinion, public money should go to those who are able to provide quality health services quickly enough for patients. So, after all those patient rights, there are other criteria. Public hospitals can't do that. Maybe someone else can. Then let's open up so we can shorten the waiting periods. No, it's not. So it's not for your patients. It's not for your patients! If you're so concerned about public health, I'd like to know who you have in public health that you're so worried about that money will no longer come to public health. Because you tell us that if we want to give money to concessionaires and privates, because we have some interests, someone is behind us – I've been watching who's behind me all the time, and I don't see him – that I don't know what we want. Who do you have in public health, whose supplier, a doctor who wants to serve and is afraid that this money will be gone? Well, let me tell you. At the same time, answer who is the one with me who benefits from what I do in Parliament, from suppliers, doctors, and I do not know the time behind me and gives you, I will tell you the idea that I am producing this in the National Assembly. You were talking about the practical union. Um. This letter, these letters, we got all the Members of Parliament, didn't we? I don't even know who's in this union, who's in charge of this union. I saw a representative on TV. I know that these family doctors are in there together, but I don't know anything but the letter I got, and of course this contact I have with my personal doctor when I come to him and so on. And you tell me that they have now produced for the sake of these waiting periods, so that I have something to say in Parliament. They produced this letter because the minister broke the agreement with them. Why aren't you being fair and reading the whole letter to the end? We signed an agreement with the Ministry on concessions to grant different concessions to family doctors for a different period of time. The secretary signed it, promised it, and then she broke the agreement, and from there came this reaction. And you're saying that they gave it to me to have something to say about waiting times. You fell on your head! Where did you get that idea? I don't know. Now you're gonna say that in pediatrics, that kid died to get me to talk. You're going to say that on Neurological Radan did this to make me have something to say. You'll say that they shot him in Isol because he waited so long for me to have something to say. And you fell on your head. I can't tell you anything else. This is happening in our health system, Mr. Zorman, and you don't have a real picture obviously. You don't or I don't know what's wrong. Now, for all that's going on in health care, what the Minister doesn't have, you're saying is that it's produced in public or in the field for us to have something to say, and we've put two interpretations in. You're amazing. Today we are not talking about the concepts of the health system, Mr Zorman, to which you have intended, I think, more than 20 minutes. Today we are talking about the interpretation of Milojka Kolar Celarc, because also SD and Desus and the public and doctors and patients, and I do not know who else is finding that it is not good. That it's not good. Don't worry about the patients. You keep talking about interests; the interests that protect the Minister, the interests that protect us, the interests, I don't know who bribe each other. No, no, no. We're all talking about patients, and they're saying that what's happening in the healthcare system today is not good. It's not good. And you're saying that MKC is Milojka Kolarc Celarc, and I'm sorry that she arranged the emergency centers. Well, let's see who started with the emergency centres, that Mrs Kolar Celarc made an invitation to tender for the supply of the material and that. We've had helicopter assistance for 17 years. There's nothing else. Stop that helicopters are flying better now because it's what it used to be. The dispatcher's center isn't what it's supposed to be. But she promised him. He's not here yet. And now you're still repeating that waiting periods are everywhere, in all countries. Yeah, definitely. Now, the first thing you're going to do, you're going to answer the question, in which German newspaper, Austria, you read what you said. They'll take a look at it later. And now you're telling me, O.K., yeah, let's take a look. In public health, we've been waiting six years for an orthodontist, children. They wait so long, they end up on their own, because after 16 years they don't belong. In my case. We've waited so long for six years. Now I'm six years old again. Two years for the first checkup, six years for the next. That's great for you. Okay. Then you say there's longer to wait elsewhere. Coronography 4-6 weeks, Germany, England, with us 9 months. You know what that is, don't you? It's not like you're just a little sore. Then the other things that are, say, for the crabs immediately intervene. He's waiting for us. Orthopaedia is waiting for about 2 months abroad – England, Germany – with us for 5 years, foot deformation. And you say that, that's all right. Let's take a look at the graphs of growth of the waiting age. And you're the one who scares people or makes them. Because what we're saying is only from statistics out there that people say. What I'm talking about waiting periods is my cases, my personal cases, or my family members, and I'm not making them up. And now I can show you a picture because I took pictures of what it says in the office, how long it's been waiting. No, I don't know where. Then young doctors, how better for young doctors now. They'll be able to work as family doctors right away. No, it's not true, Mr. Zorman. Let's stop lying. With the new law, 5 years of schooling have six years of specialization, and then 3 years of work experience to work and carry out independent health care. On the secondary, an additional 5 years, although they have completed their work permit with specialization. For a self-employed job they can do. Stop lying to people! You wrote three extra years for the family and five for the second. So all those young doctors who warn you what this means to them are liars, and you're the only ones who're telling the truth? All those young doctors you listened to on the board. Then, uh, about corruption. First of all, Mr. Zorman, this is not a commission, this is the Commission of Inquiry for the purpose of identifying abuses in the purchase and sale of vein support in Slovenian hospitals. It has an official title, it's a committee of the National Assembly and it's not a commission, which is also a member of your colleague, who works very well, and you have a very under-appreciative relationship. Because you said, "Some committee that finds something like this will do." And then you say: Hospitals to the register, prepared by Milojka Kolar Celarc, didn't know what the prices were. Yeah, come on! Hospitals are public institutions, and as public institutions – or anywhere, if I go to the hospital now, I demand this report or I can request that they give me the information – they can be among themselves, now I cannot remember the name, but they can get the prices among themselves. And the hospitals in 2012 knew about each other's prices, which were the testimony of the witnesses before the commission; this Mr. Zorman probably knows because he saw it all and he knows the work of the commission. In 2014 the hospitals were aware of the prices between them because a tender was issued in UKC Ljubljana, which significantly reduced the prices of vascular resistors and was published everywhere. No, we were waiting for the register. Now this register has become, of course now all prices are written in. And now Mr Zorman claims, but now public contracts are better, procurement in hospitals is at a lower level or less expensive. That's not true, Mr. Zorman! Hospitals are only purchased at higher prices – Celje, Maribor, Izola – at higher prices than UKC Ljubljana. And they haven't gone down yet. And then they tell you, oh, thank God this invitation was, and now we know what the prices are. Everyone makes a fool of themselves because they're public hospitals and everyone knows about the prices. They also knew about prices abroad, and they also said that before the commission of inquiry. And what you're saying, Mr. Zorman, is not true! That's not true. If you've seen everything since the hearing of a commission, as you say, you should know. And you say that the Minister of Action is Minister, and, well, now it is a question for you. [[…]] What measures have you prevented contact between suppliers and doctors? Because before the commission of inquiry, everyone said that it was normal and that it was going to work today, and it will be for centuries. The former director of UKC Ljubljana said that, of course, it was normal that she could never stop it, Mr Kopač said, it is also all O.K. and that it goes to the ministry if necessary. I'm curious, Madam Minister, how many suppliers have you had? Maybe you can tell me about your term. And now tell me the measure by which Mr Zorman says that you have arranged this, but I would like to know what measures are that there is no longer any contact between suppliers and doctors and that the doctor can no longer influence the choice of the public tender, as has been the case so far, which we have found on the commission of inquiry, which we thank Mr Zorman for even realizing that we have made this clear there. And then you say [[Laugh]] Mr Zorman, that was definitely the case in the joint public contract for the cords for the cartel agreement and that the AVK is investigating it. The AVK has concluded, you know, Mr. Zorman. There was a statement on Thursday at Target. “There was no cartel agreement, the market in Slovenia works.” That was an AVK statement. And you're telling me, "It was a cartel deal." Mr. Zorman, I hope you'll be invited, just as I was when I told you it was going well, and that the investigation committee was told that they were talking cartelly. The next day, they asked me to do all the paperwork I had to prove a cartel deal. I hope they invite you, too. If you don't, I'll ask them to call you. Because you said today: “It was a cartel agreement.” But now you're gonna get the paperwork to prove it was a cartel deal. Everything has happened that corruption does not happen in Slovenia, but no, Madam Minister, common public procurement. What if by the example of a foreign, for example, there are some anti-corruption offices in hospitals or someone who would do this, but not that in Slovenia today, if you report such a matter, they will first question you, why do you know that from where you know it? Madam Minister, I would like to ask you whether you have any good practice in this area envisaged, so that corruption will also somehow become a problem in hospitals. Because Mr Zorman says that you have also, what I have already said, prevented these contacts between suppliers and doctors and so on. 136 million, yes, because a man would just say that it's okay if this money is for hospitals, for these purposes. But where are the managers' responsibilities for these losses, where is the law on the management and responsibility of directors of public institutions, Madam Minister? You promised us something. Are you going to look for the ones responsible for these cuts in public institutions? I don't think so, because you're responsible for those minuses. And then it's hard to show someone with a finger, because it can quickly say, yes, because the ministry was wrong, it lowered the prices of services, it raised wages, of course we had to pay, normally, even promotions, and the ministry didn't provide us with resources and that's why we're down. That is why, Madam Minister, you cannot seek the responsibility of public institutions at all. However, I expect your answer, of course, when the law on the management and responsibility of directors of public institutions will be and how, although we may already know how you will sanction these directors; therefore, as stated in the law, that one who does not meet all those criteria of the recovery committee will have to leave. And what will you do with Mr. Digger? You basically named him, your government, his nomination procedure is still in, I think he's handling it because there were complaints and there's no telling if he was fulfilling all the conditions. You've been defending him for a long time, and now that you're kind of resisting in the field of the pediatric clinic, it's not okay anymore. Although he created a little less than 100 million in a year, two. And what about responsibility? Well, since there are other directors, even in Maribor, even in Celje, I don't know which hospitals are all in the minus. So I think that something was said here — lies and hate speech, definitely. And Mr. Zorman, I don't know if you're paranoid about esdees and you just can't see us. We do not need to like each other, but with such statements, the General, first of all, let us then focus on the Minister, who has clearly made it more clear in these years that matters in public health are heard only in the mouth: Public health, public health, we are for patients, we want the best for patients. [[…]] But look, the results are completely different. And today and the last few days, they keep writing patients. I have to say that doctors are very little, thank God, because then I'd say something else, I don't know what, but patients say it's unsustainable. And also the doctors, who then come to him, say, "Look, I can't do anything else, these are waiting periods, the Ministry won't, the health insurance company won't do it. You'll do the health insurance company ZZZS anyway. We will now have a health insurance company under your law. It's like, you can't protect yourself from anything but them. It's like a car should only be insured by one insurance company, the only one and the only one to be saved. Then, Madam Minister, you say how well you've done for specialization, that so far it has been completely opaque, chaos and I don't know what it is. The Medical Chamber has put forward a call and a proposal for the number of cities per specialisation. We've already cleared this up once because you even gave me the right one, and the Ministry approved the number. Not the Medical Room. Now it's new, but you've centralised it, and the ministry will control everything, and it'll be politically controlled. Well, it's up to the minister to decide what he thinks. Earlier this was prepared by the Medical Chamber as a proposal submitted to the Ministry and the Minister confirmed it. Not now. Now the minister will decide everything. And that's political interference, as you can see. So that I would expect here, well, now the chairman has changed, but perhaps he will react a little differently in further hate speech. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u31	So be it. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] It's a promising prediction. Mr. Zorman, you have a replica. Mr. Jurša, you have a procedural priority. First of all, Mr. Jurša, please, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It seemed necessary for me to respond and propose a procedural solution to what Mrs Jelka Godec was doing. Indeed, I fully agree with the fact that Members should be warned when speaking so-called hate speech. I have to say, I didn't hear that because I was outside the hall. If that was the case, then in any case it means that they should be warned and I ask you to do so. Of course, the former Vice-President, who chaired the meeting of the National Assembly, is not present this time, and I will tell him myself. But now I have something else to add to this. I agree with this, but my fellow Members of the SDS, I must point out that, recently at one of the meetings of the parent working body, your Member Jan Mahnic spoke about the members of the coalition who have obstructed the meeting of this parent working body, that we are five-wheelers and that we are simply and simply opponents of independence. Among these, there were three veterans of war, one with the mark of the Manevre structure of national protection. Therefore, I ask you to settle this matter within your own species.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Jursha. Especially for that first part. I would ask both of you, and I think we all understand what we are talking about today, and I would like to give my word to Mr Zorman. I'd like to ask you to fit into the expected frameworks, the content we're talking about is what we're talking about. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Zorman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u34	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Of course, my replica will not be meant to discuss this subject, which was exposed, but rather to the fact that in certain parts I was misinterpreted. So I was asked the question of who you have in the public system and of course who the benefits are at risk of. I don't have one in the public system. I don't even have one in the private system. But it's a practice. Um produced waiting types, waiting periods? It's probably a matter that's gonna be hard to prove that it is or that it isn't. But if you are making an unnecessary journey to specialist examinations and, of course, you are clearly increasing the number of waiting ones, with no doubt – we know mathematics – you are prolonging waiting periods. So from this title, this is my further explanation. Let's not talk about concepts. But today I was talking about interpolation. You know, I can shape my debate the way I want, and you can shape yours the way you want. And I understand the background of this interpolation, as I said, it's a battle of concepts. Then you asked me Aha, you misunderstood, but I assume here purposefully, that family doctors three years after they do specialization can not carry out independent health activities, and that is of course true. [[…]] But what does independent health care mean for viewers to know what we are talking about? As soon as they do their specialization, the next day, independent doctors with all the authority, work in a public health institution or a concessionaire, where they also have, to say, someone who is, or is, a professional manager, a mentor, whatever, a more experienced doctor. Self-medical activity, but what you said, of course, can be carried out by a family medicine doctor only after three years of marriage. And this is not a unique thing in Slovenia. But we will discuss this next week when we consider the Health Act, which is why you have little knowledge of this information. The prices of the venous braces have not yet been lowered. Did I say they went down? The general invitation to tender was prepared just for them to be reduced. But because he failed, of course, they have not yet. Well, I never said they were already, but I believe they will. As far as that's concerned, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u35	Zorman, three minutes past the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u36	There'll probably be an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u37	Okay, thank you very much. Replica, Mrs Jelka Godec. You want to be a proponent? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u38	Yeah, I'll just be for a minute. I'm just going to say, we're going to read the magnetogram, but you just said, "PACTIC. UM has produced that I have something to say in the National Assembly.” It's one thing, he's produced waiting periods because it's a thank-you topic. Waiting days, it's pointless to talk about it. You let the system change so that the waiting period doesn't get shorter and that's it. Now you're protecting the existing system, or you're making it worse, protecting these suppliers, so we've got 200 thousand waiting long. That's why! Not because, I don't know, PRACTICE. Um, and I don't know who. Because it's done. And yes, you said prices went down for total public procurement. Nothing's gone down yet. Hospitals Here the minister should do so that the hospitals know each other or not, now that they know, now that they officially know, they should give instructions: You can buy so much, but nothing else. The supplier who will not go above the price of UKC Ljubljana, which now has the lowest price, cannot and will not end! Suppliers do. [[Incomprehensible]] The next thing is this – members of SMC doctors have quite a few. Let's count them. First head of the department lab, brother of your EU Commissioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u39	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond and give some further clarifications, and also respond with arguments and facts to false accusations. And I don't really know where to start, because I'd say what constructs build on structures. First of all, I'm going to start with the last ending, which Mrs Godcheva just said. Yes, the Minister has long since given instructions to all hospital management that they must send the information up to date to the Intravision and that, of course, before they go into any public invitation to tender, they must check the minimum purchase prices of the materials and medical devices in this Intravision and this may be the indicative price in the invitation to tender. Let me say that during my term of office there was not one corruption affair, that the acquisition of stents was done all before the beginning of my mandate and that what you say so much in the opposition – and the common public procurement of this – Slovenia has not been able to prepare professional medical technical standards for all the materials and for all the medical supplies we need. Why am I saying this? Because then everyone can say a little in the proverb, an individual can decide what he will use and what he will install and, of course, they have been in the past even if you want, Mrs Godcheva, by your own way, a visit to UKC suppliers and hospitals. But first - and this is what we do before we go into the common invitation to tender - we call the profession, we form the working groups, and so was this working group for the walls to first prepare technical medical standards and criteria. And then this can be the basis for a common invitation to tender: the number needed to use in Slovenia these devices or materials, and then, of course, the lowest prices. But we just don't have that in Slovenia. And in other countries in Europe, they have that everywhere. And this would be the responsibility of a mercenary, this is the institution, and we have also written this in a new proposal of the Health Care and Health Insurance Act. But we're going one step at a time. We started with those materials and medical devices that are, of course, most used, and that in the total amount of this money we give to health services is also the largest share. By the way, we use stents around Slovenia from 6 to 7 thousand. The maximum amount paid in the past, even when overpaid, was EUR 3 million. And to say and apply 3 million euros in the 3.2 billion money we spend on health care and to say that everywhere and across the board there is such corruption, I think it is irresponsible and misleading. But like I said, we're doing the impossible, and the States have been doing these technical standards for five to ten years, and now you expect me to, I don't know, make them in one or three years. [[…]] Yes, we do, and many of them have already been made, or we could not go into needles, diapers, gloves and other materials. Once again, there was no corruption affair or this. Since what is my responsibility and responsibilities, we look very closely at it, all of them signing the Treaties Everywhere are clauses on the nullity of contracts if such a situation occurs, and all those who participate also sign statements on the non-conflict in accordance with the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. [[…]] Let me tell you a little bit about what happened in the past. Operations desks, numerous annexes, water treatment at the Oncology Institute. Not to tell you the first day I went to the Ministry, I was waiting for an annex for extra money, for extension of work, for annexes to concession contracts, but I haven't signed one single annex. [[…]] Even more, the Oncology Institute ended earlier, saving millions of euros. Of course, I won't say what I had to do. Not to mention, then, the invitation to tender which has been prepared and published for the continuation of the construction of the DTS or the new emergency room. So much for that. The MD Medicine, which has been mentioned many times, and I will explain it to the public again. Because I don't know if you're saying you're reading newspapers; unfortunately, I can't. [[…]] MD Medicine, d.o.o., received the concession of the year, in particular, November 2006. You can see for yourself who the minister was back then. At that time she was also granted a licence for a concession contract, which states this which, by the way, was concluded at the same time as the award of the concession decision, but you can think for yourself why and how. [[…]] In this concession contract, on the basis of a decision, it was agreed that the concessionaire would perform a public service in the range of 0.5 teams of specialist outpatient activities in the field of orthopaedics. By the way, the concession was granted for the field of orthopaedics. However, the second paragraph of Article 3 of this Treaty provides that changes and extensions of the programme shall be resolved on the basis of an annual agreement between the partners known as a general agreement. So, how did I grant the MD Medicine concession if she had it since November 2006? I don't know, can an ordinary citizen understand that? So I didn't give her up, and I couldn't, but no. With regard to the implementation of the EDP and the integration of the MD Medicine, I must reiterate that the Ministry of Health has called on all health service providers in the public network, i.e. concessionaires, twice, for the first time on 30 January and the second time on 24 February this year, to join a one-time programme to shorten waiting periods and write down how many interventions are in place by the end of this year in terms of staffing, spatial and equipment capacities. And we got this data and based on this data we prepared the EDP and the government accepted it, I think, at the beginning of April of this year. At that time – from those data and documents can be seen and verified – orthopaedic procedures were distributed to the orthopaedics in Slovenia as far as they came in and said they could do this program. Later, when this name of MD Medicine began to appear, which also obtained a permit for hospital health care in 2016 and could perform certain orthopaedic interventions, a message came out from public health institutions: Yes, because we could actually do more interventions. Therefore, once again on 1 September, I reiterated my call on all public network operators to do what additional EDP 2017 can do by the end of this year. And no decision has been taken on MD Medicine — not on the part of the Government — nor in the general agreement. Even if MD Medicine would receive a certain part of the EDP interventions, this would not mean that it receives permanent public funding from the ZZS because it is a one-time programme and it is a one-time obligation and a one-time contract. So much for that. But when I get more information from the offices now, how many more interventions will they do, then I will make the final decision or make the appropriate proposal to the Government because it is for patients. Yes, we do! And that, as I said, is the first priority and first assignment, yes. Mrs. Godcheva, if you are saying that everyone is unhappy, I can tell you that many simple people are stopping me on the road, at home and in Ljubljana, and saying: “Minister, hold on for us.” About the emergency centers. When I arrived at the Ministry on 18 September 2014, my colleagues told me that, of course, the issue was that we would be returning 40 million cohesion funds to Europe for the emergency centres. And when I asked why: Yes, because of the fact that it is impossible to agree on what equipment, how we will obtain it, how we will obtain it, how we will obtain it, how we will obtain it, how we will obtain it, how we will receive it, what we will complain about it, and, of course, given the timing of the matter, it will not be possible to realize it. I'm not gonna tell you what's going on. But it is true that for the first time we have made technical medical standards, what equipment these emergency centers will have. And we made our own common invitation to tender for these 7 centres, where we had 30% savings – due to the unification of technical standards, of course, of the appropriate price collection process. So much for that. And if we didn't turn around and act properly, it would probably be different today or we should be returning this money from the budget. If you are still interested in funding because there has been some evidence, I can tell you that the special working group is reviewing the costs in these emergency centres, since the 2016 annual hospital reports review found that most of the hospitals in this activity are missing, but that there is no single approach to cost-sharing. However, it should also be said that the influx of patients into these emergency centres, at least in some areas, is very high. From 10 to 30 %. And that not only those in need of emergency medical attention are coming, but those who might be able to take a look at their personal family doctor. In the area of funding, we have already provided funding for triage financing and reception funding of €1.9 million and €5.3 million for so-called observers with an annex 1 to the 2015 general agreement. For 2016, we have increased these funds and, of course, after final analysis and monitoring of these costs, we will also properly regulate this funding. But let me say that neither the methodology nor the human resources nor anything has been prepared. It started to build these emergency centres, which I can understand, too, in the absence of money to get money from cohesion to build it. And a dispatcher. Yeah, it's true. I also expected that we would be able to open the dispatch center sooner. Unfortunately, however, it is obvious that we have a habit to complain about any invitation to tender that there are a number of audits. I have looked around and I can assure you that the dispatch centre in Maribor is ready. We're actually still waiting for information support. And today I hope to say that this will be the most modern system, the concept of offering emergency medical care to our citizens. I believe you'll have a chance to see him, too. I hope – including IT support, which is the heart of this dispatch – that by the end of the year, I hope, in December, we will try to open up the entire area of the Styria region to this dispatch centre. But that's the perfect news. And not to tell you this, I also have to commend my colleagues in this place for the help of foreign experts, because this is a difficult matter. It's a life like flying control. And even in Ljubljana, we had to redesign the DTS first because we found space. And of course, we are building now, so that when the rooms are made, the equipment will be delivered in advance, even in Ljubljana, then we can open the dispatcher in due course. And then this will be the whole, reduction of response times, because there will be a whole fleet of rescue vehicles on screen with medical teams all over Slovenia. In connection with the removal of waiting lists. Well, I'll say it again. No one removes waiting lists and takes the authority of the National Institute of Public Health to guide them. However, and if we knew that, we would know; under the second paragraph of Article 17 of the Law on Patient Rights — not the novel — the law that provides the legal basis will be defined in more detail in the Regulation after eTravel, when we have the electronic waiting lists. We are not going to require operators to post Excel tables at the time of digitisation because we will publish them on NIJS websites if we have tried to make electronic support. By the way, an answer to the honourable Member of the Gardener. You probably had in mind when you were talking about the costs of eHealth. The entire eHealth package is worth 24.9 million. It was a project that started in 2008, you will remember, in the former governments there were many problems with it, but it covers everything: from eRecept, eTips, orders, interoperable spines, discharge letters, Telekapi and others, not to say, eCarton. As I said before, just as paperless business without a passport could have been introduced by the director of Izola Hospital. So only eTravel and eProcurement cost 1.2 million euros because you were talking about 24.9. I think citizens have the right to know what and how. So, waiting lists will be. Of course they will, but probably in a slightly different form. Because if we're going to have electronic lists for eProcurement, eTravel, you need to know that this is almost a thousand 300 health services. Today we have a waiting list for the time they are working manually, in Excel table that dates back to the time, you know when we worked in Excel; For 61 - 48, I mean, plus 13. So now, how and in what form, this moment will be premature to speak. I absolutely agree, of course, because patients pay contributions and have the right to know and see. So that the scope of the data will remain at least, at least, I stress, the same as it has been so far. I wonder, however, because no country in the world publishes waiting lists for a thousand 300 encrypted health services. So, I'll say, it is. But this, see, when the law is passed, we have a draft rule and when it is fully introduced, of course we will also define it and you will have the right to cooperate and work. However, I must also respond to your observations regarding my work on VAT, and to the Mutual. Really, it's sad how stories can be done, constructs, not to say anything worse. It is, of course, both at the Mutual and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, all the necessary documentation and it is verifiable. But I'll still tell you a few arguments about how things went. On the basis of data from the Health Insurance Office of 23. 5. 2012 on the financial consequences of receiving Zujf in the work relating to the transfer of part of compulsory health insurance to supplementary insurance – you know that at that time 5 percentage points passed from health treasury to supplementary – are Actors Mutual Those who have little knowledge of insurance business, you know that insurance companies have actuarial skills and their task is to calculate the necessary premium by their actuarial methods. On the basis of these actuarial calculations, the Administration – and to be added, each activator in Slovenia responds with his licence; it may lose it, whether it has confirmed the appropriate amount of the premium, which will cover the damage or in this case health expenditure, proposed to the Supervisory Board an increase in the premium. And since the Supervisory Board did not agree with the first actuarial calculation, the Actors made new calculations and the Mutual Supervisory Board gave agreement to these, which was in accordance with the Statute, and on 4 June 2012 agreed to increase the premium by 4 euros per month. At the same time, the Supervisory Board also adopted a decision to support the change in the netting premium at the found negative business outcome. As President of the Board of Directors, I started with activities to reduce the premium as early as November 2012, when I found that saving in health brought mutual benefits. And because I am very aware, and because I know the business of mutual companies elsewhere in Europe, which must be different from what we have foreseen in the Insurance Act, I have been looking for opportunities to repay overpaid premiums; either the recognition of the bonus, the reduction of the premium, the one-off refund. Because, of course, mutual societies are not set up to generate profits, but to benefit their members. In this regard, it was also sent to the AZN, i.e. the Insurance Supervisory Agency, in February 2013 a letter with technical issues of reimbursement or reduction of premiums. I had another meeting with my colleagues at the Insurance Supervisory Agency on 21 February 2013. I was relieved by April's board of directors, of course, because I proposed a reduction in the premium. And for that, there's documentation on the Mutual, on the AZN. Believe me, I wrote something else down on the block, too. That's why I'm so sorry. I'd say it hurts or hurts because it's obviously manipulated and spoken. And I still claim and insist that mutual societies cannot function and act as shareholders. That I won't start talking about past profits or anything, but look, I don't have any offense at all. I'm fighting for patients because patients or health care could have gotten that money from past profits, as many as there were, probably today's health system would have been different. So much for that. And I think we're going to wrap up these stories and warm up the old stuff. With regard to substitution, political change to 88 members of the boards of institutions. What am I supposed to say here because I've said it so many times, I've said it again? My key objective is that the management and management of institutions is professional and responsible. And that's what I was saying at the beginning of my term, and I'm saying this all the time, today and in the future. My goal was, therefore, to adopt a special protocol on the selection of candidates for representatives of founders in sacred institutions, where we wrote that these candidates must have some knowledge, references, experience, knowledge or health system or financial accounting and functioning of the health system. Everyone had the opportunity to sign up. And, of course, we have also made a transitional provision in this Protocol, where we have written that we want to check with existing members of the board of institutions, representatives of the founder, whether these members meet these criteria within one year. A special working group, the Commission, has introduced a specific evaluation system, specifically, and this committee is working, making calls. And now that you're reading that 88 members of the boards of the institute have been replaced, that this is a political change, I'm telling you that I practically don't even know if you would ask me now who and who these members are in these councils, because this was done by the expert commission on the basis of evidence – references, certificates and the like. It wasn't any political change. But it's a responsible job, isn't it? But it manages millions of euros of money coming from our people's contributions. And for that reason, it seemed appropriate for me to meet some of the minimum criteria. With regard to pediatrics, I would just like to add – because I think it is a very broad explanation in response to interpolation and anyone can look at it and read it – that I have taken action with my responsibilities. But let me make it clear once again that I wasn't saving Professor Dr. Kende. However, as I have also said publicly, I have invited all those involved in the meeting to the Ministry of Health and have asked them to regulate each other patiently, in dialogue, inside the house and not in front of the public. As you know, the very public accusation of each other is the most reprehensible of Slovenian health care and its reputation. In particular, if there is no substantiated evidence or if there are no extraordinary and regular professional controls yet carried out that could reasonably determine whether or not someone has made one or the other mistake. So I did the right thing at the right time. That is why and also because they have not successfully settled the situation, I have asked the management of UKC Ljubljana to withdraw. And that's all I have. Many times in the debate, it has been shown that we obviously do not have enough clear boundaries and gaps, what someone is managing and what someone is responsible for. Because O.K., it's very convenient, and it's the simplest, if the Minister of Health is responsible and responsible for everything, isn't it? But then we wouldn't need directors, we wouldn't need leadership or anything. I can agree that legislation is obsolete in this part. Yeah, it's true. The working group has been working very intensively and has extensive starting points for the preparation of a law on health management and management. You know that we are bound here, that the Law on Public Institutions is in force and that this is a broader topic, that the management and management of institutions is not just a health issue. Now maybe two more answers. I have already replied to Mr Vrtovac about the price of the eTravel or eProcurement project. Now there is a response to the basic Act concerning the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products. Perhaps Mr. Vrtovec has made a mistake, but on the basis of this law, only six sub-laws must be issued by the Ministry. Six and not fifteen, namely: the Regulation on health warnings for tobacco products already published in the Official Journal, the Regulation on the conditions to be met by a smoker is immediately prior to publication in the Official Journal, the Rules on the reporting of tobacco and related products are in inter-resortmental coordination and will be published by the end of the month, and the Rules governing the sale of tobacco products are ready for public consultation, the Rules on the Single Packaging are also ready for public consultation, and we are waiting for the implementing rules of the European Directive to be drawn up by the end of the month. So the six rules that you have now heard of or have already been published in the Official Journal, just before publication or in intersectoral coordination. And perhaps briefly Mr Mihi Kordiš on the transmature regulation. Let me say that, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we have prepared a draft regulation on the maximum authorised content of transfatty acids in foodstuffs. We gave the regulation a public hearing in June. It has also been in interdepartmental coordination, and I believe – the ministry, which is the institution, continues this adoption process – to be adopted as soon as possible. And only access to the med hemp. The Ministry of Health, together with the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, shall implement all measures within its competence, which already allow the import of medical hemp preparations on the basis of the medical needs expressed. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I'd just respond to the Minister's words here. We're going on joint public procurement. You're talking about the success of a joint public procurement of venous cords. I'm interested, prices fell in 2014, not now. 2014 is UKC Ljubljana, but only in UKC Ljubljana and not Celje and Maribor, so you cannot say that prices have fallen across all hospitals. You said that the general public order for the venous cords was successful and that it showed how well you were doing. I wonder if you've taken this successful practice to needles, diapers, gloves, catheters, wires, medications? Now you nod that yes, but these expert committees were set up before a joint public order for vascular resistors. And I wonder if you've reached European prices on all those diapers, gloves, needles, catheters, medicines. Will you say that prices have been reduced by 5% according to prices in Slovenian hospitals? But it still will not be a European price. In Intravisor, Madam Minister, compares prices within Slovenia. I wonder if these prices are comparable to European prices. Yes, they did not, because the invitation to tender for vascular resistors showed that it was not EUR 285 for a single vascular resistor EUR 195, which was not in the public tender or 130, as much as in the comparable Stockholm area, that is, in the area where you obtained official information. So, Madam Minister, the question is: Are you this good practice of the expert commission Because such a public invitation would not have been successful if there were not one doctor in there, you know that, so he was also at the Doctor Night press conference. [[…]] Are such practices, i.e. lower prices comparable to those of Europe, also comparable in other common public procurements? Did you put the highest price there for drugs, diapers, needles, gloves, and I don't know what? Tenders are already under way since 2015. That's all. Only that, then, you can boast that you are successful or that you are really doing what you have just said. Let's move on. Emergency centers. Emergency centers, czech, you come straight to the line Accessibility. [[…]] You're talking about accessibility. We have the best access. There's no objection to that, Madam Secretary. But I'm talking about 13 to 18 hours waiting in the E.R. That's what I'm talking about, the IPP, where there's no bed, where people wait 13 to 18 hours, where you can, because you're waiting, someone dies. This has happened to some doctors. And then, of course, the doctor feels guilty and is able to, I mean, we can imagine if your patient dies. But because he waited 13 to 18 hours there, because there's simply no beds, because he just didn't turn up for triage, for nothing. Madam Minister, we are not talking about accessibility, we are talking about this waiting. These are not waiting periods, not kind, but about this waiting on and you promised in the parliamentary question, the answer was: “2017, May, IPP will be resolved.” [[…]] There's not until today, and today you can listen. They're taking pictures of those who've been waiting a long time and sending them to you. Answer me that. What did you do to the IPP when you promised? Intervention law, 136 million. Madam Minister, what have you done, because the costs of debt The West claims are liabilities to suppliers. [[…]] That's what you're gonna hide, isn't it? And what did you do to reduce the cost of the material? We're coming back to that one and the same case through, one and the same case through — the ventricles. You said that everyone must now, that there was no invitation to tender or invitation to tender at the hospital on this subject. Oh, yes, there was, in Izola, Madam Minister, in Izola, it was in your mandate. Extension of the Annexes in your mandate for higher prices in Europe. Well, let's do it, if the ventricles are around here somewhere, but did you take this to everything else? On valves, once again, catheters, diapers, gloves, I don't know what. You are not, Madam Minister, and that is why 136 million of the money you give is worthless to the suppliers because they are laughing at you because they will sell again at such prices. Today we can read, I opened the Portal Plus earlier, that the citizen has declared this to the European Commission as unlawful state aid. We asked you yesterday to wait for the European Commission's response. Since the Minister, let me answer whether today, according to today's legislation, health activity is an economic activity in Slovenia. And if you're just going to give money to those who are down, not to those I mean, the others are fine. [[…]] But if next year is a downside to any hospital, will you re-adopt the intervention law? Intervention law without ensuring that money is in the budget because the budget balance has not yet been adopted. And Minister Vraničar Ermanova said yesterday: "We will see about that." Yeah, well, the question is, what happens? Is it going to be a balance, or will it be adopted or not? You never know. And you're giving out a blank signature. 136 million, and make the minister accept that. It's about patients, isn't it, Madam Secretary? But I say that's what you have on the European Commission. Now, if the European Commission finds that this is illegal state aid, it will be even worse; there will be no 136 million, hospitals will be blocked because they will have to return this money. Next thing. I want to know how far you are with long-term care. Long-term care was at the Ministry of Labour, for some time now at the Ministry of Health, you are the guardian of this matter. And I wonder how far you've been with long-term care? Are you aware of what is happening in hospice, that there is no room for demented persons in protected departments to send, that they simply cannot give demented persons in Primorsk because there is no room, and that is unsustainable down there. So I'm interested in what's in these areas. Well, the fact that it is still running in Excel today; Madam Minister, don't brag about it, because you have had three years too, so that it will no longer be managed in Excel to settle these matters. As far as MD Medicine is concerned. Now that you've started to explain yourself in such a long and broad way, I have an interest now, Madam Minister. I wasn't talking about the concession decision. Oh, no. I asked you if MD Medical has a contract to carry out a hospital activity. And if she doesn't have one, why doesn't she have one? Because, as you said, exactly as you said - the concession decision was obtained by MD Medicine in 2006 and the simultaneous agreement on outpatient activities. Then — you did not say that — they applied for extension and that they wanted a contract for hospital activities. And you never signed these contracts, Madam Secretary. I'll answer my question in advance. And that's why I'm going to say that there's a conflict in the coalition because MD Medicine doesn't have this contract. But why doesn't she have it, Minister, but the question for you is why you didn't sign this contract, yet. But at the same time, you will give them an EDP program to perform. No problem, because I've already said before, if we want to shorten waiting periods, let's open up for everyone that can shorten waiting periods. But if the system is such that we have concessionaires who have to have a concession decision, who have to have a contract and permits, then we stick to it with everyone, no matter what they are, where they are and why they are. Everyone's. And now if they want to do this, now the question is for you – if they want the EDP that you want to grant them, do they have to have a contract to carry out a hospital activity or are there enough contracts for outpatient activities. Because ZZZS, the insurance company will not pay them these EDPs unless the papers are O.K. because we are going to Slovenia red tape, but in this system this is the right thing to do. And I am interested, Madam Minister, in whether they have a contract for hospital activity and why – because they do not have it, you will answer because if they have it, then they have it from this morning – they have no reason why you did not want to sign this hospital activity contract. I'm asking that in fact instead of a coalition, because maybe someone wouldn't want to expose it. But this was the apple of the conflict that we are talking about, not that it is a company or a doctor; it may be someone else, it may be someone else next year, and we will deal with others, let us clear it up. If they have to, they have to. But why don't they, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you. But it's a role. But you have a role to play. But I say, anyone who can shorten waiting periods, quality, with lower costs and, of course, in the patient's best interests, let's open it. I don't know why we're defending ourselves so much. But I'm saying, since the system is such that we have concessionaires, we have to stick to these rules. Sometimes they're stupid, sometimes you can't understand, but we have to. And I'd agree that the concessionaire does spinal surgery. Because people are waiting, look, after six years with foot deformities, and I don't know what they're all suffering and now they don't know who it is. I want to do this, I want to help a patient, you say you like helping patients, you almost cry about how you have to help patients, and then let me explain. Because if all of this counts, then let the one who has all the conditions, permits, and all the things that need to be done do exactly what he does. Because if the doctor who wants to do this service doesn't have all the papers, the insurance company won't pay him back. I'm sure he won't do that. So, yeah, exchange in public institutions. Look, Madam Secretary. Don't say you didn't do anything. Yes, you wrote the protocol, you signed the appointment protocol to the sacred institutions, so you gave guidance to that expert committee on how things must be done. But I told you then, this protocol is worse for members of the boards of institutions than for directors. But for directors, you have those who don't even have enough work experience not to talk about education. Well, Madam Minister, you haven't answered my question yet, so I'll say it again. Zero tolerance for corruption. What a real conflict of interest for Mr. Pojona. Now, because you haven't answered me before, I'm going to list what other functions he has, and you're going to tell me if that's true. So the President of the Commission of the State Social Security Council, signing the opinions of this Commission, is the business director of the Gynaecological Clinic, okay, engaged by the Ministry for 985 hours to advise on the preparation of the implementation of amended health legislation, and a member of the expert committee, or how you have, the head of the SMC Health Committee. So, the SMC is making proposals, for you, working at the Ministry, with you preparing the law, then this law comes to the State Council and he gives an opinion on the law he wrote. There's no conflict of interest here, of course not, where. Well, Mr Požun is according to my records – and you may say, if not true – also a member of the Institutes Psychiatric Hospital Vojnik, Psychiatric Hospital Ljubljana, I think even the President, and a member of the Health Council. Yeah, it is, O.K. Well, now I've listed three plus four, four functions where there's no conflict of interest for your terms. Madam Minister, then let me answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u43	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps I would like to begin by commenting on the discussion that took place around the letter or by calling on the president of the PRACTIK trade union. UM where he called on doctors to make unnecessary referrals to secondary level. The fact is, this is costing the healthcare system. When this happened, when I heard about it, I also asked the Minister if she could tell me what the Ministry had done about it, because I do not imagine a health system in which every doctor would in one way or another harm public health care for certain services, but also patients, of course, because when it comes to unnecessary travel, it means creating unnecessary waiting types in secondary health care. We know that this excessive journey has increased and that this is certainly not for the benefit of public health. Well, then I was somehow told that nothing had been done about it. Of course, I can't imagine any other regulated health system where a doctor on a public network could afford such a thing. So this is certainly a signal that things are not arranged, that control over what someone is doing is not adequately resolved. Here's the Ministry's responsibility to make sure this is settled. I have also read in detail the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister of Health, as well as her response to it, and I can see that there are many things that I do not agree with in the interpretation. However, I certainly believe that the first four points of interpolation are largely well-founded. Even more, in my behavior, a set of reasons for interpolation could even be complemented. The fact is that the President of the Government has always strongly supported the Minister, although there have been no systemic measures taken to address the most pressing health problems concerning access to health services, safety and quality of treatment, by which the President of the Government is, of course, also responsible for the deterioration of the health situation. At the time of the adoption of the ministerial position, the Ministry and the Minister and its client made a strong promise of what will be done for the patients and how public health institutions will be strengthened and none of this has been realized. Again, the main concern was for elites, the salaries of the best paid public servants, especially doctors. It's no secret that in the first 80 places the best paid public servants are doctors. Nevertheless, the Minister is preparing further measures to raise these salaries and the intervention law will also take care of suppliers of medical devices and medicines. Of course, we all want the proper salaries of doctors, but they must be in line with the state's capabilities, but we do not want the privileged salaries of a group of public servants. Other underpaid personnel in health care should also be taken care of elsewhere, including young doctors, and in particular patients should improve their position – to eliminate waiting periods, to ensure access to treatment for all citizens and to ensure safe and quality medical treatment. The responsible minister, including the president of her party, does not see enough problems for the patients or do not want to see them, although the health system exists because of the patients, not because of the minister, not because of the doctors and not because of the President of the Government. We can see that under this minister, patients and public health institutions are now in worse shape than ever before. The truth is loving, not only because of the actions and non-action of the current minister and this government; the public health system has for many years been privatized and commercialised by health care providers who are driven by the greed and power of individual stakeholders in the health sector, but sometimes also by ignorance and carelessness, but also by the powerlessness of individuals responsible in health care, by some of the Ministry's predecessors and under-responsible heads of government, including some of the heads of the Slovenian Health Insurance Office and financial ministers. This has not changed significantly. I remember well the health reform when I was invited to participate, which was in 2003, when we wrote the White Paper. And what happened then – this was what was called the Kebre health reform, where it was also about the need to end supplementary health insurance – in fact, it happened that once Dr. Keber called me and said: “The reform has fallen.” He came from a meeting at which the then President of the Government of Tone Rop, of course he himself, the then Minister of Finance, who was also Minister of Finance of this Government, Dr Dušan Maramor and the current Director General of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, also Mr Miklavčič, later Minister of Health. So after 14 years, the goal that had already been set as appropriate was not realized. And even now we have promises, I'd say for the naive. We cannot be satisfied with the Minister's work so far, as the consequences of the lack of systemic measures are increasingly felt by patients and the conditions of work in public health institutions are exacerbated, which is ultimately a threat to the health and safety of patients and the public health system. In Desus, we have constantly asked the Minister and Prime Minister of the Government to fulfil the promises of the coalition treaty and the systemic measures to solve health problems, which are not from anywhere today. Indeed, replacing the Minister just before the elections would not significantly contribute to the necessary changes. Unfortunately, the coalition partner's agenda does not address access to health care treatment, quality and safety, nor does it increase the fairness of financing the health system, since it is obvious that the Prime Minister has not been able to convince the Government to cooperate in solving financial problems in the health sector or his Minister of Finance. And so things go their way again, from the bad to the worse. The document of interpolation, which we are considering today, also contains some content, especially in the last chapter, which I cannot support, either because they do not hold – for example, with regard to the regulation of concessions in European Union directives – and some of the opinions of interpolation investors who are inclined to privatise and commercialise public health, although the growing chaos in public health is causing precisely private interests and greed for some who are allowed to achieve their private objectives in the healthcare system at the expense of public health deterioration. This certainly is not the right way to solve the accumulated problems in public health. I also cannot support the content of interpolation, as the commercialisation and privatisation processes of public health care have been proven to be harmful to people's access to health services, but also to the quality of health services, especially in a country such as ours, where the professional supervision of the Medical Chamber does not work at all. Also, the questions of the public powers of the Medical Chamber have not been addressed by the Minister, even though the Chamber itself finds that it is not part of the task for which it is mandated to carry out it and for which it receives substantial public funds. In this case, too, it overlaps with conflicts of interest in the public powers conferred on the Medical Chamber for the benefit of the medical elites and to the detriment of the safety of patients. There have also been no relevant changes in the area of professional supervision. Regardless of the absence of my vote in the vote on the Minister's interpretation, it is obvious that the Minister or she will have enough votes to be able to earn the interpretation, despite the fact that the interpretation has been successful. Of course, we may wonder what the point is, then, of discussing by morning the work of the Minister and the problems of Slovenian health, when the final outcome of the vote is already so well known. Let me answer that question. People have the right to know what the Minister and also her party have promised to coalition partners and people when the Government is formed, but this has not been fulfilled and what they are and will be the consequences of the suspension of the mandatory measures in the coming years. I cannot agree with much of the Minister's response to the interpretation. Thus, I do not agree with the fact that the cases of corruption that took place before her term of office will not be dealt with by the Minister, for example, by irregularities in the area of the purchase of vein support. Again, it has been shown that the intertwining of public and private in the UKC creates corruption risks. In the meantime, the Commission of the National Assembly, which notes responsibility for abnormally high prices when purchasing venous braces, found that it was working beyond the law and that many doctors work also through their own and foreign espions or parts. One of the surgeons at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana is expected to have two espions and two more parts and a private society. But apparently the minister doesn't care about that question. However, I think that the Ministry of Health should be actively involved here, read all these records, all these statements, including those of employees at the UKC, and also what to do about it. So, if things go through, I don't think they're allowed. The minister says that she has made various complaints to various law enforcement authorities, and has also satisfied herself with a government document in which all ministers swear to zero tolerance for corruption. Unfortunately, this is just an act on paper again, because systemic measures to prevent obvious conflicts of interest, which I have already warned myself several times, are still not on the horizon. The first chapter of the interpolation on liability for non-action in the field of corruption should, in my view, be supplemented at least by the fact that, despite the coalition party's commitment in the coalition contract to demarcate public health activities, it was not intended to do so, at least not until now. Of course, the problem could be solved if doctors had to decide whether public servants or individuals with a concession to perform a public service or whether they would carry out a health-care activity only as a purely private health-care activity. This could easily be solved, but obviously there is no interest. As this is not to be done, because the Commission’s warnings to prevent corruption on the existence of conflicts of interest due to the simultaneous exercise of work in and outside the public service, which increases corruption risks, of course, means that this area remains unresolved and that corruption risks remain. Since the promise will not be made, the public health system will, of course, continue to be exposed to the risk of corruption, the loss of financial resources, the deterioration of the efficiency of the health system and the consequent increase of inequalities in human health. Of course, the Coalition Party and the Minister have decided that they will still allow doctors who are public servants and also individuals with concessions who also perform public health services, sitting in two chairs – in public health and also in private. So, at the same time, work in the public health system and private self-paying ambulances, which are profitable companies. It is positive, of course, that this profit – at least as regards the operation of concessionaires in public services – should finally be settled after many years when it did not want to be regulated. However, the so-called adhering industry should continue to be allowed with all the problems that such an arrangement brings. Although it is noted and ensured that the Minister is constantly working to strengthen public health, in practice I can find that it is in fact still possible to decommission health homes and hospitals. This is exactly the way it is, due to the flow of money and unnecessary costs. Conflicting practices that do not want to be interrupted are more likely to abuse public health resources, as they can also be transferred to private hospitals. In some cases, public and private practice of the same doctor is carried out in the same public health institution and in the same office. Every so long we hear about material or apparatus that simply disappeared from health institutions. It was not long before a significant number of UKC Ljubljana venous braces disappeared. Who would need vascular resistors or expensive medical equipment? I wonder if the minister has ever asked herself how much money public health costs materials and apparatus that end up in private practice. I don't think so. At the same time, the work of doctors in public health homes and hospitals also allows private practice to abuse time in public health care, as time in the public service can be used to treat patients from private practice. There is therefore no legitimate reason for the legalisation of harmful practices. The Minister refers to the need for doctors to obtain permission from a public health organisation to work in private, as if this could solve the problem of adhesion. How, however, can a public health organisation safeguard public interest when more and more doctors, including a number of former and current leaders in individual public health organisations, are involved in earning a profit from the deterioration of public health care? The regulation that should prevent harmful practices I am talking about is, of course, the task of the Ministry of Health or the Minister of Health, but it does not want to be rectified. I wonder if the Ministry of Health has ever checked how many operations of doctors in hospitals are greatly reduced when these doctors start serving these operations outside the hospital. According to some of the data I received, half of it. Of course, this means that due to earning in the afternoon, the efficiency of working in a public health institution is declining. It also affects excessively long waiting periods. The Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission have found that waiting lines are often skipped for non-health reasons in self-paid medical clinic patients. Existing practice encourages doctors to create artificial waiting types and to redirect patients to a private self-paid infirmary. Systemic corruption is created by subjugating harmful practices of adhesion. That's what we're talking about all the time. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. We have before us a law that is still to be amended, where security guards are still available and in fact separates private activities from public activities and thus prevents all these abuses that I have talked about from happening. Most of the funds for the dissemination of programmes and for the elimination of waiting lines have been diverted to private for many years. This leads to an absurd situation so that a public health private can perform three times as many specific operations as UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor together. However, employees from clinical centres are cheap workers who can pay better than public institutions. Why? Public institutions cover the costs of education of healthcare professionals and of the rights of employees. They usually treat public institutions more difficult patients, and they also treat major complications in the private sector. They must also perform non-profit services and those not paid at all. This is also why losses are accumulated in public health establishments and profits are collected in private. In particular, the private sector provides profitable services, for which they are also paid. The legalization of harmful corrupt practices in the proposal for a Health Act – i.e. the legalization of livestock – will only make the situation of public health institutions and patients worse. Since the beginning of her term of office, the Minister has been deceiving with words on strengthening health homes and hospitals, and is heading towards decommissioning public health homes. Let me mention the case mentioned by the minister today, namely the case of MD Medicine d.o.o., because the newspaper columns of various newspapers were filled with this information, especially the Dnevnik, Del, probably elsewhere, but there was no objection to the arguments cited. It is said that the Ministry of Health has not disputed any data, otherwise it would not be possible to mention this because it is essentially mentioned in the articles in Del and Dnevnik. Journalists wrote about the efforts of the Ministry of Health or the Minister to deprive public health care of €1.5 million of orthopaedic operations and to award them to the private health clinics of MD Medicine without an invitation, where operations in a securely questionable environment, as noted by Minister Dusan Keber, were carried out mainly by surgeons from public hospitals. Dr. Dušan Keber pointed to the perversion of such a proposal, which apparently seeks to direct money to the private at the expense of public health. You can read this in yesterday's column of the Journal. Dr. Dusan Keber is also former Minister of Health. The work of the journalist points to potential conflicts of interest that have affected the incredible speedy acquisition of work permits and MD Medicine concessions, since the Ministry of Health granted permission for the carrier of the activities of Snezana Kocijancič, or the personal physician of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, only within a week. The diary reports that the Minister acted unusually and quite domestically, as she was to hand-written instructions to arrange the concession, and this instruction was given to the then Secretary of State Nina Pirnat. I also saw a picture of this letter with a letter, with the instructions of the secretary in one of the newspapers. Similarly, procedures for the Municipality of Ljubljana for half of the general medicine programme for the Cerara personal medical concession for general practice in MD Medicine are to be launched quickly. And we're back on special procedures for elites. Some believe that the Ministry of Medicine and the Prime Minister of the Government are being consulted by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or even at the National Investigation Office. The government, which is supposed to decide on the granting of operations and money to MD Medicine, has not yet decided. The decision was postponed after articles appeared in the media about the business. Let me also touch the third point of interpolation – responsibilities for ineffective resolution of the waiting period problem. In doing so, I should like to point out that there have not been as many waiting periods as during the current ministry in our health care sector. Again, a signal of what patients are worth. Millions of dollars were to be given to the army for armoured personnel, to raise the salaries of the best-paid doctors, but there is no money to eliminate waiting periods, even though it is a matter of life. I would like to draw attention to Marušič’s article Unsystematic measures to reduce waiting periods cannot be successful. Data from the National Institute for Public Health are also provided. I will not give all the information, but I can read from this article that the number of people waiting for the term of office of the current government will increase by 27.5% until the adoption of the measures in May 2016 and the number waiting for more than 34.2%. And let's say one more such information that already from the NIJS core data, this is what the National Institute for Public Health says, is clear that on 1 January 2017 the number of all those waiting has increased again. The number of people waiting since April 2016 has increased from 218 thousand 952 to 229 thousand 814. Over the allowed waiting period there were 40 thousand 648 or 17.7% of all waiting. In short, a large number of patients waiting for a first medical examination and all waiting for a waiting period. We don't know what's going on with them, because they're not in contact with doctors who should take care of them. In view of the lack of sufficient and adequate public health funding in the entire mandate of the Minister, it was not possible to expect anything other than longer waiting periods for patients, the loss of public health institutions and the deterioration of access to treatment, quality and patient safety. Since these systemic measures are not yet in place, this situation cannot be rectified, even though it is expected to reach the health sector of € 136 million in short. Let us see, then, what, apart from corruption, also drilled holes in public health accounts. From 2010 to 2016, the public health service was not paid EUR 580 million of health services. The prices of health services are also clearly too low. The cumulative loss of public institutions amounts to €170 million at the end of 2016, which we can see is not much in relation to the numerous interventions – including the current Minister and the Cerara government – to the health treasury. More work, dealing with more patients, therefore, means greater loss to public health institutions. It is clear that public institutions under the pressure of the envisaged remedial administrations will begin to cool off the provision of services to patients who are suffering loss. Without payment, it is impossible to work, so it could happen that, like private operators, they will close their doors for services not paid by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. This shouldn't be anybody's wish. Thus, in the event of the implementation of the intervention law, we can expect even longer waiting periods, as all public institutions operating on the loss will end up under the Sanitation Administration, even if the founder has received this loss. Let me say that, contrary to public health institutions, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia pays all the services they perform to the private sector. And we're already at the fourth interpolation point. Instead of measures aimed at stabilising the work of public health institutions, the Ministry of Health or the Government, with some moves or failure to act, drilled a hole even deeper into the balance sheets of public health institutions. So nothing happened in the area of hospital benefits. The increased expenditure on hospital allowances certainly reflects the insufficient concern of employers for safety and health at work. However, there were no appropriate measures in this area. Of course, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs is also responsible for such measures, but the Ministry of Health's actions have an important impact on the health treasury. For example, there is still no list of occupational diseases, and we are probably among the rare countries in the European Union where this important area is not regulated. When wage austerity measures are released, there are still €171 million outstanding for public institutions. With VAT hikes, the health treasury lost EUR 13 million. The reduction of doctors' standards increased the cost of work by 20% to public institutions. The number of employees also increased due to new offices, resulting in additional costs, for which no financial resources were also provided. Payment arrangements with Fides and negotiations with the ongoing unions will bring additional uncovered costs to the public service. The payment of €136 million of intervention funds is therefore by no means sufficient to cover all the obligations imposed by the State on public health institutions. It doesn't even cover past losses. However, the current deficit created by the Government's salaries and other interventions to the health register does not have financial coverage. As a result of the losses caused by the intervention of the Government, the suspension of the current legal order in the field of public health institutions is absolutely unnecessary and the creation of emergency situations in public institutions by means of an intervention measure is, of course, harmful. The Sanitation Committee and the planned Human Resources Political Tsunami, which may begin in public health institutions where the intervention law allows for all this, will undoubtedly contribute to the further decommissioning of public health institutions. At the end of this important area, which remains continuously abandoned, I can say, from the Ministry of Health's hearing, although it is only in this area that it can be determined that it is true that, in fact, the Ministry of Health does not care for those who do not have access to health services. So it is an area of unprotected persons who do not have access to treatment because of poverty, which forces them to seek charity in clinics where doctors and nurses, volunteers, treat them. I have already warned the Minister about this problem, but this has not been reflected, nor in the new proposal of the Health Insurance Act. Because today it is considered that a single person who has an income of 300 euros a month, even though he does not have any assets, is not entitled to any other social assistance, so he should survive with 300 euros. It means that we should also pay supplementary health insurance every month, supplementary insurance premium, which is 30 euros. Most of these people can't do it. These people are a few tens of thousands, unable to do so and therefore, of course, do not have access to compulsory health insurance rights. So I've listed a number of reasons. In order to leave time for my colleagues, I will put an end to this debate in this place. All these reasons point to the inability of the Minister or the Ministry of Health to make health more effective for the benefit of patients. It is only because of the carefree access to treatment of poor people that I think this should be sufficient to conclude that Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc should never have taken over the position of Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u45	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić and Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State and Minister in absentia! It is already my turn as a third debater – it is 4:51 p.m., and we started at 10:30 p.m. – that tells us how important the issue is, which we are talking about, how powerful it is, rightfully, the pressure of people on Members and Members to focus on this topic, and how great the anger is in some way – not only in relation to the Minister, but to the entire Slovenian policy – because health, the health system, access to health is not what people want. And this, of course, flies to all stakeholders in this process; at least it flies to staff in support systems, at least it flies to nurses, not to the most part to young doctors, specialists and so on. Like in the debates on higher education years – I will allow myself to use an undesirable, unfriendly term – to “fossils” who, in their old merits and old medals, exploit all others who work hard, have the will to do better with new knowledge, with behaviour, with innovation, without allowing them to come into space and take a step forward. If I return for a moment to the question of interpretation against the Minister, I will start with one of the previous interpretations, which was when we addressed the request of the Prime Minister after the resignation of the Magi. Julian Bizjak Mlakar. It was then that the minister insisted on the law, which states that, of course, the Ministry of Culture was not responsible for the rehabilitation of mines. I'm guessing that makes sense even without the law. The minister found that, probably bilaterally, the prime minister no longer trusted each other and was upright after presenting her arguments because she believed what she believed and for what she did in the way she did, she resigned herself. If the honourable Minister understood why we had been discussing for about six and a half hours the problems that hurt our citizens and citizens at the bottom of her heart, and found that it contributed more and more to the fact that the debates at interpretations were longer, but not less, that the issues were more and not less, she might also understand that it would be significantly easier if she did something similar to Minister Bizjak Mlakareva – a place for younger ones, even after political internships, not after years, but for younger ones, with different approaches and different ideas. It has not done so, and this is a fact given, it is a matter of its judgment, such as the decision of the President of the Government to continue to trust her, with all that has been said today. In the decision of the SMC and the President of the Government, as a coalition partner at the end of the day, six months before the elections, I do not intend to run because this is a matter of their assessment. Because it is also a matter of their assessment why they do not intervene in the fight between the Minister of Finance and between the Minister of Health at a point where it seems logical to all that it is one of the fundamental functions of the State to ensure that their people do not die in waiting lines. And a serious country with a billion 600 more revenue in the budget than two years ago would have added up to 136 million, which is a respectful money for intervention law, to 170 more in order to reduce waiting lines with real measures. But that, if I understand correctly, still awaits us. The decision that Milojka Kolar Celarc remains is on the table. The President of the Government supports it. And also because we do not want the message to be wrong, that it would be a message that we want less public and less solidarity and more competitiveness than within this sympathetic word we want to show the Slovenian right, degrade and break down the equality of access to public health services, this interpretation cannot be supported. I'll say something. From here on out, we need to look at what we can do in the middle of the year. I read the last time in Youth, which stands firm for the Minister – Mrs Jelka Godec may have some theory of why this is so – that the Minister has simulations of a new insurance system that will allow more money, more fair and more accessible and solidarityable public health. That's the first thing you want to hear today. Not why SDS is attacking and how it's not fair and how it's not nice. If they're simulations, word for word. This is of interest to us because on this basis we can determine whether the plans for the next half of the year are good or not. Next. We have an intervention law. If we look at the numbers, in fact the amount barely saves the University Clinical Center in Ljubljana. What about the dispersion on the others? What does that mean for the periphery? Will we be able to resolve the emergency situation by €136 million by 31? 12. 2016, can you find better solutions for public health institutions than just not letting them go bankrupt? And the third. Because we were talking about vision and hard work. In spite of consultations with people on the ground, the Minister announced the merger of some public institutions, despite consultations with local communities. Kranj-Esenice, Topolšica-Cele and so on, in the final phase. In the middle was Topolšica-Golnik and Kranj-Golnik and so on. What's up with that? It was said that we were facing analysis, models, solutions. If we have an intervention law now, if you agree to increase the prices of health services next week and if we expect a new, reformed health insurance system next year, then none of these hospitals will be in business with a loss within 6 months. Well, there's no need for a neck-to-nose reunion. The need for visionary management of this system remains. Can we count on the specializations of these hospitals? Will the minister go to the people and tell them why and how? I'm not asking this headlessly and just because I want to steal a few extra minutes, but for a simple reason. It has been announced that we will not support interpolation. Three times in the last three months, I have listed all these questions and also said: “If I do not get an answer, I will support the interpretation.” And I'm saying the same thing today. And once again, it's simple questions. Now I've been late for a while because I assumed I'd be talking between two and three. The watch. I'm going to Topolšica, where people are waiting for me, and we're going together to re-examine the answers today. And that's where we'll wait for the Minister's answers, which has been gone for over an hour. And this is for my understanding, as long as I've known the operation of this House, the event of a couple of excellence, because all the ministers so far knew that if anything, we all understand the toilet, lunch and so on, but for an hour not to be present in the National Assembly at their own interpretation, the relationship to those with whom you work. It's all right. I'm counting on answers. And while I'm driving to Topolšica, I hope the Minister will answer that question. And when I sit there with people, I hope that I can tell them more than that the analysis has not yet been done and that the plan has not yet been made. I firmly believe that from the starting point. Because if it's a decision to stay, then there has to be a way forward. Because only and only an intervention law on the intervention law saves nothing. As with Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, the minister's main point of view is that he is on his way, often not in a way to consult key stakeholders. But what's so much more problematic in the system, such as health care, than it was in culture, it was already there that the minister had to leave. With the difference that Juliana didn't have the apparition of Mir Cerar, like Milojka Kolar Celarc. And the opportunity for the Prime Minister and his client to prove to all of us that he deserves it. But not by attacking the SDS, because their story does not interest me, not by answering the Vrtovec, because his competitive health care based on the decommissioning of the public does not interest me, but with a concrete answer, how will the reformed insurance system be, that we will have a stable source of funding for our public health system, what are innovations in health that will bring about the sustainability of hospital operations both in the centre and in the periphery. And under the line, what can I say from the secretary, except that she disagrees with the SDS, I'll tell the people in Topolšica in an hour. Dear Minister in absentia, we await your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u47	Mrs Violeta Tomic has the floor. Prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mrs Vlasta Wait. Here you go, Mrs. Tomić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I, too, regret that the Minister is not here because we are discussing very important things here. We, too, are very critical of her work, and we can certainly tell her a lot, but what a proponent I can call a professional destroyer of the government, which is obvious to them, I cannot support. For their concern is essentially private property, the profits of the insurance lobby and the spilling of public money into private pockets and under some cover of the reduction of waiting types require even more privatisation. Moreover, colleague Jelka Godec informed us that we are reading Youth, which is supposed to be financed in no way. I am not a youth lawyer, and they will defend themselves already, but it is absurd that this is evident to us by a party whose media is financed by a foreign state – specifically some companies that are closely linked to Orbán. In short, since we were told earlier – colleagues of Kordiš – that Levica does not talk about corruption, I will remind you that you did not support our proposal when we discussed concrete solutions to eliminate corruption at the meeting of the committee. Why are the prices of these medical materials so high? Because it's a matter of intermediaries and, of course, SDS knows well how to protect intermediaries. Why don't doctors buy from public companies? Why do we need intermediaries, and why do we not buy directly from manufacturers? And if we had a public company that would buy directly from manufacturers, then we would return all the surpluses to the health department. This is not the invention of warm water, this proposal has also supported the KPK and I do not know why this has stopped here. But this is, of course, contrary to the SDS program, and why? Because this interferes with the right to free economic initiative of these intermediaries or suppliers. Like restricting concessions, it would also affect the right of concessionaires to free economic initiative. What's that supposed to mean? For example, new concessionaires will have to operate in a non-profit way, saying that profits will have to invest back in the development of health activities. And if I give a concrete case now; the medical concessionaire – who has treated Igor Bavčar so successfully that he could not go to court, but then soon he could be involved in sports activities, which means that they really work well – then he could not pay the dividend to his co-owner the Ljubljana archdiocese and, of course, Cardinal Rode would not be able to drive such a good car and not build luxury residences. Here my colleague Vrtovac would remember when he was here talking about poor children and health care: what does Nova Slovenija say about this? For, as we know, it is easier for a camel to go through the ears of a seamstress than for a rich man to heaven, but not especially if it is at the expense of some poor people who are more difficult to obtain health services on account of it. To be clear, we are very critical of the work of the Minister, and we always remind her of all the things she does not do in our opinion. Here I would mention, of course, the regulation of the situation of medical cannabis, because already on 7 October 2016, with the unanimous decision of the Health Committee, we decided that the Ministry of Health should allow legal production and processing and prescription of medicinal products from medical cannabis for our patients. We're supposed to be doing this in two months. And we waited and waited, and despite many interventions and parliamentary questions, nothing happened. All right, even when they can prescribe medication from the medical hemp our doctors will make this hemp, these drugs will be imported. Something the Committee has explicitly pointed out is that this is a very good economic initiative and that Slovenia is already actually self-sustaining with medical hemp, sadly in the black market and completely unregulated. Although this production is professional but unregulated, it is the Ministry's duty to regulate. Pharmacies are full of CBD industrial hemp products, which have many medicinal ingredients; see, all the way from imports, while our farmers have been producing hemp for at least a decade. These are things that are unacceptable and here we could create new jobs, people would pay taxes and contributions, but all profits go back to abroad because we don't know anything but kneel before abroad and take away what they're selling us. This is also a complete mistrust in your own profession. And the next thing I would point out is that we also proposed a long-standing law on the limitation of transmatures in 2016. And again, of course, we did not invent warm water; we only proposed to pass on the law, such as examples of best practice, for example in Latvia – precisely this Latvia, which we beat so beautifully in basketball yesterday, and here too was the initiative of the government to send some charter to support these boys who are fighting for this country. In short, we have proposed, but the government has rejected our proposal with the promise that by the end of 2016 it will make a systematic overhaul. Once again, whenever the government says that it works systematically on the law, we know that soon or blind will be nothing. By the end of 2016, there was nothing, and on 20 March 2017, colleague Luka Mesec had asked the question of what was going on, and the Minister replied that she would limit transmatures in food because the law would go to public hearing in early April. That didn't happen, and we re tabled the law in May, and the government didn't back the law. And then the Ministry of June published a draft regulation on the maximum authorised content of transfatty acids in foodstuffs, but since then it has been back on track. Finally, I should also touch on the fact that the Minister, as a member of the Government, has supported quite a few very unfriendly measures, namely, the reduction of income by 10% of the richest in the country, the freezing of pensions and social benefits, the second indent law, the privatisation of funeral and burial activities. You also supported the deployment of Slovenian soldiers to NATO operations in Latvia, as well as all commitments to NATO, with which Slovenia would spend 1.2 billion euros to achieve NATO's goals, which would be badly needed in health care. Not to mention the new idea of purchasing patriots that will bring us 200 million euros. This is the money we use to quietly excommunicate Hungary as a partner at the second track. Finally and possibly the worst pain is that many – thousands of them, Slovenian citizens – do not have compulsory and complementary health insurance. This is about entrepreneurs, espouses, self-employed people and their families and children. These people are forced to enter the pro bono infirmary. This I think is a shame for a country that is considered a social one and that this should be addressed urgently. And in our opinion, the ministry has not done enough to help the Bono outpatients, especially in the infirmary in Nova Gorica. However, it is true, but the Minister is the only one who has taken up medical and insurance lobbying and is sincerely committed to restricting concessions and abolishing supplementary health insurance, which will bring us €60 million on an annual basis, which is now being distributed by insurance companies as their profits and as sponsors and various ways of spending that money. This will stop the constant flow of public money into private pockets. And that's exactly why I won't support the interpolation. We will give the Minister time to carry out these reforms. And let me repeat once again the thought expressed by my colleague Kordiš in his opening remarks: “Whoever treats health as a market activity is not a friend of the nation and this friend cannot be.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u49	Mr Jernej Vrtovec has the word to prepare Mrs Vlasta Wait and Mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u50	Once again, good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The ways of Slovenian politics are really strange. To quote: "We do not support the Minister, but because we see that the President of the Government is in distress, our rejection of the interpretation of support for him, not the Minister." Thus, for discussion or political analysis, this is a very interesting sentence. And I think it's the first time we've heard in this national council that someone's made such a statement. Last but not least, if we analyze it: if you refuse to interpret, then you're only working for the benefit of someone else and for your own benefit. But you're not doing what's right and right. But it's okay. So, you're backing something you don't agree with. In Slovenia it's really interesting. With regard to funding, since I have been mentioned several times in the discussion between colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say, regarding competitiveness, as the Minister also responded, that the health system New Slovenia wants is aimed at privatising the Slovenian health system. No, no, no. We only want one thing: a better health system, we want to strengthen public health. Minister, you're standing on some old trenches that they don't know anywhere else in the world, maybe in South America. Just there. But tell us about competition – if this system works in Germany, if it works in Austria, why we are such an abnormal country that this system does not work in Slovenia. And once again, what's the competition? Firstly, competition in insurance. So I, as an individual who pays from my own wallet into the health system, have the right to choose the course of my treatment. Who can deny me this right? And I have the right to choose a health insurance company for myself. That's what they say in Germany. We should not say this in Slovenia, but we have a large conglomerate. This is the ZZZ, in which there is a lot of money flowing, over a billion euros. And from there, this money is being distributed through some planning arrangements from the past. A general agreement, but no, a minister we make in June or July for the current year. It's so common, it's so common. And it's not good that we still have planning in health. Secondly, competitiveness as a result of the first is competition between health service providers. I don't understand this fight that some of you are fighting against the concessionaires against the privates. Why? They're doing what's right, what's right for citizens and citizens. And that doesn't mean that those who have more money will buy health care, and those who don't have it can't buy it. That doesn't mean that. But in this system of competitiveness, there is one good quality. Do you know which one? In particular, the natural route reduces waiting periods, waiting periods, the minister. Do you know why? Because no one will afford to be bad and have long waiting periods, because then you would not be competitive on the market. If the law of the bazaar works in Cargrad or anywhere else, it works everywhere. But only in Slovenia are we who say: No, this does not work for us. Therefore, it is essential that we give people who pay for medical bills only one option — to choose for themselves the course of their treatment. If we don't give these opportunities to people, then our health system will still be copied and unfriendly to the people who need it the most. In addition, termination of supplementary health insurance. Very populist, Madam Minister - once I congratulated you that you have a pretty good pear - is to say, "Oh, we will stop this." Come on! Let's pour some pure wine. We're not going to stop anything, we're just going to redistribute the money, again on some progressive scale. Again. This is the first time it's been a progressive scale of gross gross wages, isn't it? Now we'd do it again. Yeah, but where do we get with this progressive scale system, so to speak, to lose the most productive, successful people? I don't want to. Already leaving 8,000 young, the most educated, the best personnel abroad. And what do we do? We just put that money in another bag from one bag. That's all. We'll give that monopoly in the country – the ZZS – more money. I'm great! And we'll say that this money will be safe there. I agree to abolish supplementary health insurance. Otherwise, not on the basis of the progression of progressive scales, as you suggest, but let's put this money on the market. Let the competition take place, who offers better services. And to you, Minister, I don't see anything but that we're still trapped in some molds and there's no progress. The business of institutions; for every thing that happens in UKC Ljubljana after the government has appointed the world of institutions, you are responsible. And then to say whether Mr Kicker is one or the other, how it would be removed by Madam Minister, you have brought most people to the government's meeting and confirmed them there. [[…]] That's it. And with that, the government has a responsibility, too, it's a very simple thing. And you are also responsible for business from then on UKC Ljubljana. But what is here is one problem arising from the intervention law. [[…]] We're talking about the problem of doing business, the problem they're dealing with. We say, we're going to help these people with millions of euros, we're going to talk about 100 million, we're going to help them hand in hand. But we're giving money to that fox who's already taken these chickens out without doing a thorough analysis without doing a check-up or changing people. And again, Minister, take a look at how it is elsewhere. Is it a public company? This might be worth considering, changing the business concept of the institutions themselves. Apparently, the concept itself may be wrong. Let's think about maybe taking a step forward, not just throwing a lot of money back out there and in ten years or five years, we'll talk again, we'll lose again. Only money, let alone billions of euros, will not solve the problem of waiting types and not the business and organisation of our public health institutions. Waiting years; it is once again the promise that this year will be over. And we all know there are waiting times everywhere. We all know, but there are real injustices and people are bitter. Do you know what it looks like you get spinal surgery or whatever, regularly, in 200 days? Does that look nice? What? I don't think so. But we can't make false promises to people, we can't fool people. Last year we were told at the interpolation: This will be over next year. We're proposing things. You know, people are waiting. Members are also waiting for changes to take place, but they are not. And I believe you're fighting, but the measures, the ones that say that waiting lines would be reduced, but they're not, and they're prolonging. Yesterday you were able to read for yourself in Dnevnik; if I am not mistaken, the newspaper Dnevnik – for a long and wide article about how waiting species extend. Even with regard to central public procurement, as I said before; how can a person be satisfied, even though the promises were very great, that this is a success, it is true that the establishment of a central public procurement, if only 30% of this call is successful, is still going on the old hoof. Yes, then we were unsuccessful in this, Madam Minister. There were seven audit procedures. You will now say to me, "Yes, but blame the supplier because they mine this system. Yes, a system is badly established, there is no control over prices or quantity; it seems that others cannot always be blamed. And now you're allowed to deal with the bad conditions in the UKC. I spent the last year in one story, and I'm not going to mention it, but in one story, there was this little girl who was nothing nice. And once you're faced with this, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, if this UKC is what it is like, with this kind of action, as well as child heart surgery -- it's okay or wrong. And it comes quickly to one conclusion that if you have, by chance, a really sick child and you have to put it there for surgery; of course, you give it, but with great mistrust. With great mistrust. Considering what's going on and what's going on. No action. What was found at the age of 14, after two years, is truly unheard of. It's about corruption. Can a country like us, people who invest heavily in the health system, or can we afford money to disappear into the private pockets of individuals? I don't think we can afford that. Vulnerable resistors; investigative commission finds irregularities; there are very ugly, ugly data, agreements. I don't think we can be indifferent when we find out – because this is the most shared way of taking advantage – that the money that is meant to treat all of us, all of us children in this country, is being used to fill their pockets. As a result, such a thing as health corruption must be primarily eradicated. Once again, I say, in no other way than to establish competitiveness. In this area too, competitiveness could eradicate corruption as such. Madam Minister, we could have had the hope last year that things would change in one year. Okay, but they haven't changed. Tell us what a Slovenian citizen is at today's better than he was last year. Do you feel the changes you are talking about? And about all these analyses or promises, how we will change the system or how new legislation will improve things over the next six months, that there is still time to give something else to do. [[…]] I don't have that hope and trust that things will change. But as it turns out, you're the only one who's had that hope before. Make sure that the coalition partners actually play more on the line: Let's hold on to this coalition until the end, let's support the minister. If my coalition partner said, "We don't support the Minister, but because we love the President of the Government...", I would just go. Thank you for your support, dear Desus, I'd say. And here's the problem that if the minister doesn't trust the entire coalition, then he can't do things for the better. Unfortunately, it is only six months before the parliamentary elections that more than not the National Assembly, ministers and ministers will be involved in politics than in politics. Once again, at the next national assembly – not anymore – there will have to be serious reflection on health in Slovenia. Not to make cosmetic corrections to a planning system that is no longer in Europe, but to take steps forward. And once again, yes, in competitiveness. Just as these steps are capable of making the countries north of us. If this system works there, this system will also work in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u51	Mrs. Vlasta Wait has the floor. Get ready, mags. Branko Grimes and Mrs Erika Girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u52	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I took office in the National Assembly 12 months ago. At that time, the first interpellation was filed against the Minister of Health, the interpretation against the Government, the medical statement. Before us today is the second intervention of the Minister of Health, which is essentially similar to the first interpolation. The current government has committed itself to strengthening public health and reforming the health system in the coalition contract. Human health is such an important value for the country that it organises healthcare as a public service. Why public health? Because this government, the ministry, our party is following the values of solidarity, justice, equality, humanity, equal access for all people. In 1992, the legal basis for the award of concessions was created, mainly for reasons of greater competition and better development of the health system. However, the expectations of the company at the time were not met. There was no real strategy; concessions were distributed inconclusively. The privatisation of the public service and the decommissioning of the health system began. During that period, many health care homes suffered financial crises. It was collected from the existing network by going to concessions, but some workers remained – usually a doctor went, while others were members of the team – so this led to large losses in basic health care, not only at the secondary level. The health legislation, which has been in force for almost 25 years, has also been substantially unchanged. The values and phenomena of society – this was the development of technology, defensive medicine, patient awareness, greater requirements for health services, population ageing, austerity measures, the economic crisis – have led to the situation we have experienced. The consequences of all of this were: increased costs in health care, generation and extension of waiting periods, lack of doctors according to needs, high losses in public institutions and dissatisfaction of patients. In the belief that such a situation will be resolved, several new laws have been passed within the 12 months. The first was the adoption of the Resolution on the National Health Plan for the next 10 years, which is the basis for the development of health care in Slovenia. This is the Joint Programme for the Society of Health. The Pharmacy Act was adopted, which represents a system-wide regulation of pharmacy activities and defines it as a non-economic activity of general interest and for the smooth supply of medicines to the population. The Act on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco and Related Products, which covers solutions that mainly transpose Directives into the Slovenian Order but extend these powers, or by this Act, we try to reduce the exposure of children to smoking, reduce smoking in adolescents or to stop smoking, reduce disease and also reduce mortality due to the use of tobacco. The Medical Services Act was passed. This law changes the financing of traineeships and specialisations. For many years this has been in the domain of compulsory health insurance, which is in fact not part of it; the financing of traineeships is shifted to the budget and there are a number of resources left in basic health insurance. The issue of the status of young doctors is also being addressed, a secondary approach is being introduced, the possibility of hiring doctors who have completed studies, have not yet received specialization and can therefore be employed as secondary staff in the system. In addition, this part, when they were employed, could be considered a specialisation. In order to arrange or obtain a number of doctors and better access to basic health care, a definition is also introduced in the 4th year of family medicine specialization. This would also reduce waiting periods. Planning of specialisations is also being reorganised, which is not only within the competence of the Chamber, but is responsible for the Ministry of Health, the National Institute for Health Protection and the Medical Chamber and the Association of Health Institutions. We have a second hearing next week of the Patients' Rights Act. With it, we will unify the waiting time for 30 minutes, both in the primary and secondary levels and in the tertiary level. A level of urgency is added, namely'very fast' and there are still levels of urgency 'emergency', 'fast' and'regular'. Change or edit waiting lists, eOrder is introduced and eReception is also eConsultation. The information system in public health is improving. This law also defines the responsibility of the patient for his or her health, responsibility if he or she is ordered to undergo a specialist examination and does not respond to it. In addition, the Law on Patients’ Rights regulates a second opinion that patients can receive at all levels of health care — both primary, secondary and tertiary. Special protective measures are being taken and patients are also provided with judicial protection, especially when they have suffered serious injury, disability or even death due to treatment in certain health institutions. The second treatment in the National Assembly will also be the Health Act. The Health and Health Insurance Act is one of the basic laws governing the functioning of the healthcare service. This Act lays down the conditions and procedures for the granting of an authorisation to carry out a medical activity, establishes an institution of responsible institution, transparently grants concessions and their duration, supervision of health service providers, recognition of the competences of medium nurses. Last week, the Board also approved the Law on Intervention Measures to Cover Losses in Public Institutions, where it is the founder of the State [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u53	A little peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u54	Let's take care of the patients with this marriage, because these losses from previous years. And it is important that we cover these losses, because it is only by allowing public institutions to continue to operate and that patients have the opportunity to obtain the services they need. The Health and Health Insurance Act is also in preparation, which is indeed one of the basic laws of health care. It regulates the financing of health care, additional resources in health care, and given that if an intervention law is adopted to cover losses, this law also sets out the conditions under which we will bring new money flows into the health treasury and thus enable the system to function better. Since health is our priority, we must all take part in the implementation of health reform for the benefit of patients in particular. I am convinced from my long experience in working in the public sector at the primary level that this is the right way to achieve and improve public health services for the benefit of all, both operators and users of health services. That's why we're not going to back the interpellations against the secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u55	The word has magic. Branko Grims, let Mrs Erika Deklava and Mrs Marija Bachič prepare.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u56	So, I gather a very nice greeting for everyone, including those I just woke up with my voice. When we talk about public health issues, I don't know if you've all noticed that this is basically a public definition problem. Here we can make a wonderful parallel between public education and public health. Public education in Slovenia is the largest brainwashing system in the country, and public health is the largest money laundering system in the country. Everyone in this room knows that very well, and the Minister knows it best. And what does that prove best? The treatment of those who swear to public health and public education when it comes to their own practice for their own lives. Those who speak the most loudly about public education and swear to public education and enforce the public education system as the only regular, usually teach their children in private schools, either in Slovenia or abroad. Even Mr Luksic, former Minister, President of the SD, studied his children in a private institution, including in the Škofia Gymnasium, if I am not mistaken, and Mr Kučan studied his daughter in a private institution abroad. So much for private education. If this were really so good, if it were quality, surely all these ladies and gentlemen would be educating their children in the public education system. And if public health were really as good as today all those who swear to it, claim it, surely all those who have problems would be treated exclusively and only in the public health system and then, of course, Kučan would not go to surgery in Switzerland and everyone else – these are all things that are publicly known – nor are they. That's what they say. It's a big lie. What is the reality of the public health system? This is simply a huge task, the mission of doctors, nurses who work hard — too many of them for very little money, especially medical personnel, nurses — to take care of human health. But there is a shortage of material things, and money is running out again and again, so there are waiting types. The non-life rules, which are within the public health system and for which the Minister is responsible, make this even more difficult and, of course, make this system ineffective. What public health vows we had previously taken! I'll tell you what it's like in practice. Like a couple of cases. I know a case where someone's been brushed, as they say at home, their teeth and therefore permanently damaged jaw joints, which are extremely well revived, and therefore constant pain. When it came to an operation that could only be abroad, because no one in Slovenia is doing it, someone in the public health system gave a negative opinion because he wanted to learn it as a living person. By the way, they're studying on corpses abroad. That's what you say, if you're a second-rate citizen, then you're worth as much as a body, you can have a school on you. It is quite the opposite of the actions of some famous Slovenian politicians on the left, who have received without problem all the refund and immediately a guide for the most quality institutions abroad, although even some from abroad come to Slovenia, but there the service is even better. And here you can see what the citizens of the first and second order are. When you talk about how everyone is enthusiastically welcoming the public health system, the case I saw live. I know personally two Slovenians who went abroad many years ago, specifically to Canada, spent their entire lives saving and returning to Slovenia not long ago, bought one huge villa, restored it, there at Gorja near Bled, happy, it was their dream of life, their Slovenia, Bled. After six months they packed up, sold a completely underpriced renovated building, just to get rid of it, and went back to Canada. I asked them why. The answer was simple: “You have a medieval health system and we want to live for a while. With you, if you go to the public health system, waiting types are so long that you will either be disabled or dead, but what is payable is more expensive than many abroad, and it is even more difficult to access or you need to go abroad for a service that you end up paying for yourself. And in such a system we do not intend to wait, we are too old and therefore we go back to Canada." So much for this wonderful, only saving public health system. I also know the case, personally, of the doctor; my friend, a classmate who was a remarkable man. If you called him at 3:00 in the morning and he wasn't at work, he's here to help. By the way, as an interesting thing, he was from a very left-wing family. Very good man was like a man. But some of the SDs who are in that hospital – I can also tell which one she was, somewhere near Kranj – were messing with him and obstructing his career. And then one day he turned over the phone and became, you won't believe, a member of management or later I think that even the director was one of the biggest hospitals in Germany, with an uncomparably higher salary, with incomparably better conditions, and Slovenia lost another quality doctor. And this, Madam Minister, is the fate of Slovenian health. Your best personnel are going abroad, young doctors are going abroad. If the situation were really as high as you claim it would be the opposite, the best quality people in Slovenia would come from abroad. And you know it's all just the truth. This is what you say, the first time we talk about the public health system, we have to say what this is about. Why is it running out of money? Why are there waiting lines? Because a mountain of red leeches — many decades earlier — unfortunately even today — was hanging on the pockets of taxpayers, which we pay as a contribution in such and different forms, channeled to all kinds of titles. The school case of high-level systemic corruption is what the investigator reported. We have the media, whose owners are financed by taking money from public health, which they are allowed by the unconscious individuals who work in it — besides those extremely good, human doctors and sisters who sacrifice themselves night and day. But those who manage money, some of them, of course, allow such machinations, and those owners from abroad take money from the public health system, so people die. But if anyone should warn you about it, those media people will declare him a Nazi, an inhuman, they will humiliate, they will make a fool of themselves, they will lie about him. In short, he's being muddled to the ground. This is a system of state-level corruption in the Slovenian public health system. First money to sick people, because it's the most piggy, you steal it, and then whoever warns that it's wrong, who touches on this truth exclusively financial interests, who hide behind the strong swearing on public health, but is declared all but not for the man. Welcome to the reality of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen. And you know exactly what I'm talking about. After you talk about waiting age; waiting periods are unacceptable. What is happening in Slovenia is at the border of crime, but the question on which side it borders. Do you know what the result is? One of my classmates had to wait in the waiting room because it was said that he was not in such a hurry by the doctor, and that's why he died. For those who wanted to investigate whether it was a problem sign or not, it was malignant melanoma. So much for these waiting types. Not to mention a case that I also know from my own family when a lady of old went to a doctor to get a headache, something really wrong, and was celebrated there by gentlemen in public health: "Yes, ma'am, you're old, ah, you're old, you know!" Then she went privately, last minute, because she had already spilled blood in her head because she had an aneurysm, to a doctor's club to a famous Slovenian surgeon and saved her life for the last second. A few minutes after that, she'd probably be dead. So much for the public health system and because it is, of course, being saved at all levels, because those red leeches have to suck money into different media, so that they buy elections, so that all those who warn that such a system is ineffective will be able to avoid anyone noticing what Mr. Boštjan Belčič is talking about today when comparing Switzerland and the Slovenian public health system. What's the difference? There are no waiting periods. You really are making a contribution. But, ladies and gentlemen, in Slovenia, when it really goes, either you pay for everything or you're not. I admit, I know the case where the doctors put someone on the line because they knew each other, and that poor guy who was a patient didn't know that, and he was hiding the other one because he made a professional mistake. And they took it so long that all the hands of the complaint ran out. At that time, however, that thing that would have been repairable had turned into irreparable. And now this man has to fix everything that's wrong at his own expense, because it's an aging injury, although it's actually a medical error, undeniably, caused by a reckless attack on his jaw, by the way. Well, this is our public health system, ladies and gentlemen. The one where the money is collected from. As a result, people working in health care are unable to offer everything they want — those who are fine — and such are the vast majority. On the other hand, people get sick and die. But some people buy media with this money, buy elections. That's all this is about. For money and for power. At the same time, some people today enjoy very interesting things. Previously, we heard a SMC Member who made the entire Fifth Column Treaty. If the gentleman who spoke had any idea what he was talking about, he could read in his history books that the fifth column actually spoke about those who would allow someone who was a threat, a threat or whatever to come and reach their own. And if we are talking about health care, ladies and gentlemen, no one is greater than the one who opens an uncontrolled door to illegal migrants, that without proper medical supervision they can enter the territory of the Republic of Slovenia – it is, of course, the SMC, which has the Government in its hands and has the key ministries – because these people bring with them diseases, which is, of course, a medical problem. These are examples known from Germany, where they had real epidemics, from neighbouring Austria, where they had an epidemic of lepers — a disease that was no longer in Europe for 100 years. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the fifth column, because such opening of the door also constitutes a violation of the rules. You all know that. Even medical regulations. In the colossal columns, animals were also seen walking across the border with these people. Don't you? [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u57	Can you please? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u58	Which would be contrary to the rules, ladies and gentlemen. And as you're talking about the fifth column, think a little bit about who the fifth column is and who is the real threat and who isn't. And do not use such expressions when it comes to talking in Parliament. Your smile in this case cannot make a difference, ladies and gentlemen. The problem with Slovenian public health is not what happened in this case. The problem of Slovenian public health is much broader, but it is reflected in a single word. That's money. The money on which some are stranded, which makes the entire public procurement system act as the biggest example of systemic corruption, which exists at all, and which keeps new and new laws, which mean superficial beauty, in fact, keeping the core of the problem intact because of the fact that these financial links do not end. And that's why Slovenian public health is twice as expensive as Swiss when you're looking at percentages. And in Swiss, everyone says it's the best quality in the world. I'm talking percentages. Above all, it's accessible to everyone, every moment. Everyone can choose their own doctor. Do you know what it's like to be in the Slovenian public health system again? Again, I know a personal case where only one doctor knew how to provide well. And you won't believe it, because in perspective, it meant a little bit of a profit for some of the necessary interventions, and the older professors forbade him to take care of that patient, to ban it, to believe it or not. This is a system of Slovenian public health. And then what's left for the people in practice? We have, as we said, a system of citizens of first and second order. Citizens of the first order can, of course, go abroad to private clinics to escape from the system of Slovenian public health. However, citizens of the second order are within the Slovenian public health system, if they are lucky, left to the sacrifice of doctors and nurses if they run into the right ones, but if not, they are left to themselves and to the payment of all services. This is the reality of Slovenian public health. And, Madam Minister, you are responsible, no one else is responsible for this, but only you and only you. And that's why you're responsible for waiting periods, you're responsible for the death of people waiting for emergency interventions, or you're not being treated as professionally as you might be, because they're running out of time for them, because they're running out of money because they're running out of money for them because they're running out of money. Since the system of Slovenian public health is nothing more than a huge system of corruption, through which red leeches still suck up money that should be intended for patients, they hide it for the big words of their own media, which are financed from the same title. And you didn't cut that into anything. On the contrary, you are here today defending and defending this, so you are fully responsible and I will therefore be happy to vote in favour of your resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u59	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for the floor. First, I will answer Mr Jan Škobernet, because I hope he has sent Topolšica, has a radio on and listens to me. Because if I understood him correctly — because you probably agree that I have to eat something too — he said that his voice depends on what the answer will be. So let's freshen up the memory. Let me first say, because it has been repeatedly received, not only by Mr Škobernet, but also by others, that I do not communicate, that I do not listen to the profession, that I do not behave in the opposite direction. [[…]] I agree on three years for one amendment to the law, I think there is clear enough evidence of my patience, that I am willing to talk and accept compromises, of course if they are in line and are going in the direction of the patient's protection and benefits and the fulfilment of the coalition agreement. That is also what I realized in the case of Topolšica when this hospital became mired in large financial, liquidity, not to say that it had become insolvent, there was a threat of lack of supplies of medicines, materials, health services would have stopped, and I, as it is said, had been cut out of the budget of the Ministry of Health and gave almost a million 200 000 euros in two meals, because suppliers were supplying medicines that employees had salaries and contributions. And all this because of the irresponsible conduct of management, the past management of this hospital, which, of course, due to inadequate or, to say the least, inappropriate decisions put the hospital in such a situation. So if I didn't have a hearing for the patients and I didn't want the residents of this area to continue receiving care and health care, then of course I wouldn't have made all the efforts, including by negotiating with the Ministry of Finance, that we took down that the hospital could continue its work and get medicine. Indeed they were Let me say that I agreed and called the Ministry of Health also all three mayors whose care the residents of the area this hospital covers. [[…]] Agreements and decisions of the Government were also adopted. Now, as you know, we have tabled an intervention law under which Topolšica Hospital will also receive funding. And if I respond now, in connection with this, also to the honourable Member of the Vratovac, who said that the intervention law itself is to throw 136 million euros into a hole or, if you want, into the bottomless pit without certain measures; of course, I did not agree and will not agree to give so much taxpayer money to remedy past practices that have been reflected in accumulated losses. Let me say that once I took over the resort, there were these losses of EUR 132 million, but some of you want to take all the responsibility and blame for my mandate. So, this hospital will be in the recovery package, too, and it'll have a recovery board that will have to prepare a recovery program. And that's what I insist on, because if we give the money, then the authorities should also be asked to take the rehabilitations seriously for a balanced business. At the same time, of course, I am aware that at its meeting on Friday, last Friday, when this intervention law was passed, the Government has also decided that we must, with the Minister of Finance, prepare measures to provide systemic funding to increase the price of health services, which, of course, has been reduced since Zuif. It is true, however, that in the last two years there has been a significant increase in compensation for the absence of a hospital for more than 30 days. Let me say that over the last two and a half years, we have paid almost 80 million more for these benefits, which would mean that if these refunds remained at least at 2014 or 2015 level, we could raise the cost of services by 5% by 2017 and that hospitals could somehow operate in a balanced manner this year. So, the government's commitment is that we will also prepare measures. Let me say that, of course, all these systemic measures, which are almost fully in line with the Ministry of Finance, in the proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which has 500 members, are very busy, demanding. By the way, let me answer that we also have a long-term supply law, including a basket and all the calculations, because this is somehow a package or, if you want, a twin, because we will know what rights we will have in the future and what financial burdens there will be. So that's the answer. The fact is, of course, no one shuts down a certain institution at the local level so that people would not have the right to services in the local environment. However, it should be said that it would be prudent and reasonable for certain public health establishments to combine management functions, which would result in many synergies. Those who speak and compare the Slovenian health system and very tend to, without arguments and evidence, say that this is all in dispersion and you give data from other health systems, very unilaterally, incompletely, and I will specifically answer about the system in Switzerland. [[…]] To talk about why a system is better and what will save all competitiveness; I tell you, the situation is quite reversed. I have many contacts with the Ministers of Health of many European countries and I have very specific information – how systems work, what obligations and so on. In Switzerland, for example, it is necessary to provide insurance — one family of four — for the basic package of 2 000 Swiss francs. By the way, only two numbers if I say so. How much do we give in Slovenia according to the purchasing power per capita for health care? A thousand 983 euros. Do you know how much they give Germany, Austria, Switzerland? Luxembourg, I don't say, 6,000 euros. Austria 3 thousand 900, Germany 4 thousand 3 euros. And when you compare Switzerland that much more – about, if I'm not mistaken, 6,000 francs or a little more. And that's not all. When you want to see a doctor, you should first ask the insurance company if you can go to this doctor or if your policy covers all these services. And it also happens that they say, "Yes, this can, but this can't. You can go to this doctor, but you can't.” Is that what we want when we know that we have the free choice of a doctor at the premiere as a second? In the introduction, I have already said something about waiting periods; of the 49 thousand 469 waiting for July over the allowable period, 61% refused – or a good 20,000 – to do the same with another operator. In Switzerland, for example, when you mention it this way, the law prohibits insurance companies marketing health insurance from having a profit. With us, we have a mutual society that has no profit anywhere in Europe according to its content, and here they create a share of what they have to have for the sake of business security. And I'm not going to let go of how the insurance premium counts, that you have to be medically examined to find out what your individual risk is. For example, if there's someone in the family who had a heart attack 60 years ago, a stroke, you have a high pressure not to say smoke, you'll pay a double, triple premium. It's a reality. So when we compare and speak, we have to tell the whole truth, because I think people have the right to know and hear everything. Austria, for example, the late Minister of Health of Austria told me: “Milojka, please do not change your primary health care.” [[…]] Do you know what they have in Austria? Family doctors, those with work permits, have fifteen, a maximum of twenty hours of outpatients at the local level, and then the outpatients are closed. If you need to, you need to go to the nearest hospital, but it's not around the corner, and it's 50 miles. And they're doing their best to establish cooperatives with young doctors today, more specialists to get close to people. And they've been trying for years and years, and I think recently this, I don't know, exactly last month that they've managed to change this way as part of their changes. So, is that what we want? You could see a map where Austria is painted red at the premiere and Slovenia green after accessibility, which means the best. Germany and other countries are yellow. So, is this what you want for Slovenian citizens when they are old and with such purchasing power they buy their health rights? So, I'm in this place, and I've said this a number of times, and I'm going to insist on it, I'm really only interested in rights and patients, not lobbying, interest groups, but unfortunately in my 40 years of working time in this place I haven't met as much as I do now. In many Scandinavian countries, however, you can be told I mentioned in the opening act of Great Britain; your sister looks at you and tells you. [[…]] In others — the Netherlands, Denmark — if the child has 40 fevers, first you give three phone calls, then — second, third day — if the heat does not drop, you bring him to the hospital. Ask the ambassadors, the families. That's why I think it's really demagogic not to be said honestly and honestly, with arguments. And the payment of every recipe, the participation, every visit and all. I say very responsibly: what you're saying and I don't know is that people are dying because of the waiting times of the ER, even some of the cases that Mr Grims said, say to melanos; yes, this is a doctor's problem if he didn't recognize the sign to melanoma in time, and then he would write 'em out 'emergency', such cases have been reviewed in 24 hours, this is the degree of urgency of referral. [[...]] And really, please, don't scare people into thinking what those listeners who are watching this are listening. There are many examples, such positive, good ones, and even foreigners know how to say them. Here, last Friday, I was talking to a Canadian woman whose parents are at home from around Maribor, and she says, "This is something amazing, I went to a healthcare home and I got all the care, so there wouldn't be in Canada, even though the Canadian system is one of the best in the world." Dutch compulsory contractual insurance; it is also compulsory to provide contractual insurance to the insurance undertaking, but it also changes the system and legally determines how much insurance companies can spend on their operating expenses – 1.5% of all premiums. At our home, we say: 10, 12, 15. How useful and how many operations would be done for this money. And now let me do a little bit more about waiting periods, because he's really manipulating these numbers and these things, so I feel responsible and obliged to explain. what the actual situation is. And I realize that it's also where they've been waiting too long, that when you're sick or waiting for hip surgery, it's not pleasant, and I believe you can get mad at the system and so on. But I'm going to serve you with one extra number later, because we went to check out what's in these waiting lists. Much has already been said that we are also one of the rare countries in the world, which has both a gynecologist and a specialist in family medicine as well as a pediatrician at the primary level. For this reason, we are also in the prime of protection in the world, prevention in pregnancy and infant mortality. A lot of us envy that. There was much to be said about emergency assistance. 11 emergency centers. I've already told you about dispatch. We have 24 hours of on-call service in all health homes in Slovenia. There's over 60 of them. Mountain rescue service, helicopter emergency, even in Maribor, where there hasn't been any for all these years. I also said that it is true, with waiting times, that the whole world is faced, and that they are a multi-layered and very complex problem to come from various causes. Partly in the past, too, due to strict austerity measures in health care, as well as lack of doctors. As you know, there are about a thousand doctors in the system, especially family doctors and doctors with specific specialties, such as radiologists, anesthesiologists, urologists and others. However, I do not want to debate and engage in the kind of human resources policy that has been pursued in the past. But you have to understand. If it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health to manage the human resources policy and ensure a sufficient number of health workers in Slovenia, then this minister, whoever he is, must also have leverage of decision-making. This cannot be a third body that can lead such or other policies and is responsible for someone else or a third. We all know and say we're an old society. Data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that the number of people aged over 60 has increased from 2006 to 2016 and has increased by 110 000 or 26% and is already more than a quarter of the total population. Half a million citizens have thus reached or exceeded the age after which the average cost of health services is markedly raised according to the Health Insurance Office. Unfortunately, it cannot be surprising, therefore, that during this period there has also been a significant increase in the travel from premiums to hospital specialists. NIJS data show that doctors in primary health care referred to specialists for 26% of patients between 2007 and 2015. Or in other words, that means 300,000 more. During the same period, hospital specialists sent 87% more patients to other hospital specialists. Between 2013 and 2015 alone, 176 000 patients were assigned more. Whether increased travel is mainly due to demographic movements, greater population requirements, diagnostic options or new treatment options, the burden of doctors at primary level, or perhaps even to a certain extent due to the operation of the PRACTIK trade union. UM, I'm afraid there's no way to determine on the basis of the passports. In the Slovenian health system, each patient’s passenger is treated as a reasonable referral on the basis of which the patient has the right to receive medical treatment listed on the leaflet. I would like to explain to you the short- and long-term measures that we have taken at the Ministry of Health and that we are still implementing during our term of office, because we are aware that this is a problem and that, of course, patients would feel as little as possible the consequences of increased travel. Data from the Health Insurance Office on the implementation of health programmes for the period 2013-2016 show that health workers performed the same number of health services each year, some services – magnetic resonances and computer tomography and acute hospital treatments – and even 30% more. In specialist outpatient rehabilitation, rheumatology, allergology, X-rays, pedopsychiatrics and oncology, they performed 10% more services in 2014-2016. In the same period, the number of clinical genetics, cardiology, neurology, occults, tireology, urology, dermatology and maxilfascial surgery services also increased by more than 5%. During this period, secondary level performers, i.e. specialists, carried out 75 000 556 more reviews – that is, in just two years. So the health system as a whole has tried to make the most of it and respond to the increased needs of the population, but if you compare this with the above information on the number of referrals, you see where the spread occurred. And aware of the need to take action with an additional cash infusion, if I may say medically, in 2016 we carried out a one-time additional programme to shorten the waiting period in which 14 operators were involved, of which 9 hospitals and 5 concessionaires. We are also continuing the infusion this year. In EDP 17, we have included 14 types of health services, reviews in 28 specialist outpatient activities and 4 functional diagnostic services. We have called for the participation of all operators in the public health network; therefore, in specialist hospitals and hospitals. We have earmarked €23 million for this programme and have substantially expanded it: all X-rays, computer tomography, magnetic resonance, all cancer screenings and all cancer operations are paid. In the field of heart disease, all coronaryography, percutaneous heart attacks, heart valve insertion and bypasses are paid. All checks in rheumatological clinics are also paid, we provide payment for 30% more inserts of artificial hips, artificial knees, shoulder and spinal surgery, removal of gallstones, artery and vein surgery, ear surgery, nose, mouth, throat, hernia surgery. It will also pay 20% more mammography and 20% more ultrasounds, multiple examinations in dermatology, diabetes, physiotry, gynaecology, infectology, neurology, internism, surgery, anesthesiology, oncology, orthopaedics, paediatrics, pedopsychiatrics, psychiatry, pulmonology, pulmonology, rehabilitation, specialized urology, allergology, breast disease, gastroenterology, cardiology, clinical genetics and so on. 20% more foot-toe operations will also be paid, 20% more checks. And today I can present to you the information on the EDP operations carried out from January to July this year. This programme was followed by 2 000 977 interventions in the first half of this year, or a third of the entire annual programme. Why a third, because you'll be able to object immediately, why not half? Because, of course, the final project in the Government was adopted in April and, of course, the contractors began to implement this programme intensively with March and April. So, on day one. 8. 2017 Average waiting periods for both stages of urgency, this is 'fast' and'regular', have been reduced in chronography, in scar operations, both for arteries and veins, bile stone surgery, spinal surgery, and in foot-toe surgery. [[…]] The number of waiting above the permissible waiting period decreased in coronarography, orthopaedic shoulder operations and hernia operations. From the waiting data we can determine that the number of waiting for all services monitored during the period from 1. 1. 2017 to 1. 8. 2017, reduced by 2.4% and 5,000 394 fewer. The total number of patients waiting for 48 selected health services decreased by 5%, 5 000 978 patients less and between the beginning of the year and August 14% less than or 9 thousand 510 fewer. In addition, we would also like to encourage more treatment with a personal physician, for which we have provided €36 million of additional money to reduce waiting periods. The so-called variable award as a result of negotiations with the union, this year 18 million, next year 18 million; with this project we want to encourage and reward the work of doctors and health team members through standards until the Slovenian health system is strengthened. Achieve less guidance between different levels of healthcare, shorten waiting periods and the number of waiting periods and establish better cooperation between doctors of different levels of healthcare. We encourage doctors, along with the entire medical team, to perform certain interventions and services at the primary level, for which they are trained and can do them themselves, without people going to the hospital. Let me explain that, after further checks of waiting periods, it has been shown that there is still a very large proportion of those waiting for more than the maximum allowable waiting period, but 23% of those who wish for a later period, 16% of those waiting for a doctor, although they could have done the same service faster, while during therapeutic interventions this proportion is even 23%, and 9% of those who are unable to intervene due to poor health conditions. Such patients are more than 20,000 of the total waiting ones you mentioned today – 49 thousand 469. This is a real picture and I'm sure when we set up an electronic register of waiting lists, it will, for the first time, be an impossible skip, and for the second time, we'll get, if I can say so, a more realistic or real waiting list, so that they really get the service when they need it. You know, if someone changes the term three times and is in the waiting age, of course, practically somehow devours the place to the one who might want to get right on track and does not intend to move the term. Or that the entire team is waiting for a check-up or surgery, and the patient is not coming or apologizing. According to the expert director of the Hospital Celje, there were no 15 % of the people who had been ordered to do the chronography. Of course, they were on the waiting list. However, I do not want to or do not want to reduce the problem of waiting periods, but it is right to talk about the right data and finally to clear these lists in Slovenia. And one more thing, because I don't think it's been said. Before my term of office, we didn't actually have real or complete waiting lists. When I buried myself and started cleaning up these lists, I found that for 15% of the lists, health care providers did not send any data to NITS. And when you accuse me of being guilty that during my term, I don't know, waiting periods have increased by 25 to 40% if I had just said in simple mathematics – at the start when I asked everyone to report waiting lists in 2015, of course at least 15% of those not previously available have increased. [[...]] And like I said, I don't want to, because I'm saving these things and I'm going to save them because I've committed and made certain promises in this regard, and I'm going to keep them. Hello. For the comprehensive management of waiting periods and services is an important element of the eHealth system which already includes eRecept, eTemporary, eProcurement and central register of patient data. Both patients and doctors are satisfied with the complete introduction of eRecept. You will not believe that I am getting credit in Brussels because we are one of the few countries, if not the only ones that introduced eRecept in such a short time and today more than 90% of all prescriptions issued are in electronic form. You have probably already checked that you can pick up a medicine at any pharmacy in Slovenia if you have, say, a restorative prescription for the treatment of blood pressure or similar matters. Your doctor may even write for three months, three times in advance, to restore your prescription and you do not have to go to your doctor's infirmary for almost a year, except to check that you have a prescription, I don't know about a medicine for cholesterol or a medicine for the treatment of blood pressure. So, abroad basically, they have data, they can appreciate it, but at home, everything sucks. But look what some have done and what it makes possible. In April 2017 we replaced the paper leaflet with eTip, so the patient no longer has to walk from door to door with a handbill, with green paper. For all first examinations and most diagnostic tests, an electronic order is available via the patient portal I know. Patients can be ordered a thousand 200 services. The patient sees at one site data collected on the operators of a particular health service and data on their waiting periods. Thus, on the basis of this data, it can select the operator most suitable and, of course, also the operator that has the shortest waiting period. The website enables the patient to consult his/her information on prescribed and published medicinal products, a review of the instructions issued and the dates for the health services on which he/she is ordered. Through the portal they can easily cancel the term of health care in time, the system can inform them that they need to take new medications and remind them of the time limit for the examination of a specialist or an intervention at a hospital, i.e. automatic, twice. I think that for the first time 10 or 14 days before the intervention or review, and for the second time two days before the date, so that no one would forget, because I have also heard these comments and arguments, which is something that we naturally forget. I deny, of course, the indication by the interpellation candidates, which, as an administrative burden, mention only the writing of the notice. This is the document by which the doctor sends all the information he needs for a successful examination or treatment to the posted physician. Traveling patients to another doctor is not only a form of compliance, but also a transfer of responsibility for the treatment of the patient to another doctor. In addition, by means of an e-mail, the posted physician shall authorise another doctor to access the patient’s electronic card in the central patient registry system, where all visits and all treatments are, of course, recorded. And I strongly reject the perceptions of the interpolation investors of the non-functional ePatternal system and the price of the system. I'm not saying there's no occasional system malfunction. The system continuously connects over 500 doctors on one side and over 440 performers on a secondary and tertiary level who accept the orders and orders. Distresses are routinely resolved because the service works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, an entire year. Today, it is a fact that already 90% of the passengers are in electronic form and that in June this year an average of 12 000 e-mails arrived in the e-Procurement system. Together in June there were almost 300,000 travels to health services and I can tell you that I have tried it for doctors who, of course, have already used computers, eRecept to write eTips and eSurrender Orders a little snack. Doctors who do this can tell you that. The eTables and eProcurement systems are therefore fully and fully operational, and this is a very large acquisition for patients both for the system and for later analyses. I'll tell you again what credible data is. So, in order to establish and maintain the eTips and eProcurement system, contracts amounting to €200,000 have been concluded since June 2013 and not €24.9 million, as the proponents have untruely said – but I believe it may have been just a lapsus. This is also to say that this eHealth project has been being carried out since 2008. That I had to spit in my hands for the sake of European funds, as they say, and if you want to put your hands into your brain, we had to put our sleeves away because we couldn't have been punished and returned the money. I'm not going to say what a calvary it was, what it was, what it was, I guess, an accusation and all that stuff on this project, but we did it. Despite some problems, if I say so, I can also use a lot of conjecture. The transparency of the management of waiting lists has therefore increased dramatically, and this has not come across positive reception in all environments, as you know, of course, now a lot can be seen, understood and analysed from this system. The management of waiting lists is the responsibility of the operators and their employees in charge. We expect them to carry out this task with extreme commitment and loyalty. This means that the changed needs must also adapt their organisation of work Of course, we must be aware that they are also limited to human resources; not only by number, but also by types of specialists. If I speak in a graphic way, a specialist intern can't perform surgery on his spine. One of the measures to ensure such an organisation is also the contractual penalty provided for in the general agreement. Therefore, if operators and administrators or better-spoken management of waiting lists fail to carry out their tasks, sanctions for this operator will also be provided for in the general agreement. You probably think it's money. We also introduce an inspection penalty in the new Law on Patient Rights if the operator does not provide accurate data on the first deadline. However, there are good practices in Slovenian health care. I've publicly exposed Izola General Hospital several times. They have established a system in which the patient can be ordered on an exact date, with the right direction and with the cooperation of all employees. And the waiting room, you won't believe it, it's empty. The patient only comes with a medical card, puts it in a row, gets information in which the infirmary, which hour is on, enters and leaves. No pictures, no tests, no paper travels, no everything. Everything is recorded in the system, which, of course, is a great help to doctors. And the patients learned that. In fact, the management told me that they don't come back two hours early, but they come 10, 15 minutes before the appointment, but they prefer to have one more coffee. Part of the inadequate regulation or outdated legislation, in particular in the field of clearer regulation of the management of waiting lists, is amended by a new Law on Patient Rights, which you will decide next week. As a rule, at the end of this month, there will also be a new public debate on the procurement and management of waiting lists on the longest waiting periods in the public health service network. The novels and the Regulation also bring changes in the direction of duty and not just the rights of patients and regulate more precisely both the rights and obligations of patients and performers, just to get real waiting lists. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u61	A little peace. Let me add that in the context of an additional programme where patients are specifically invited, operators report that up to 30% of them do not reach an agreed intervention. As I said, it's different, but on average, up to 30%, no excuses. Such behaviour also costs patients and prolongs waiting periods. However, I must also talk about the payment of health services and the lack of health workers. The method of payment of health services is 13 years old and has not been renewed. Therefore, we are preparing a national cost analysis at the Ministry of Health for hospital activities [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u62	A little peace, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u63	and beyond them, in order to establish a proper, corrective way of paying for all these services. [[…]] And at the end of this answer, let me stress once again. It's really hard for anyone who's waited too long. And that is why we have been doing all these activities since the beginning of the mandate. These are such big and complex changes that more time is needed, for the accumulated problems of the past are all too much. And it is very important in this that the cooperation and unity of the entire team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u64	A representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you're amazing. But if you know something, you can learn time to study when you will read your initial A4 pages right in front of the Diary. That's what they made for you. I hope you'll be here by midnight too, when we're done with things, and that you'll also read so well that you'll tell us everything you'll do. Today we are not interested in your plan of work for the future, but what you have done and what you have not done in the past, Madam Minister. The leaves were quite large, yes, I see. Reading was hard. I'd expect a minister who's been in the Ministry for three years to say something out of her head, to think. These numbers that you've been talking about, of course, are your numbers and the only correct ones, all the others that point to waiting times, waiting in line and so on, but we're either total or total fools. You said: “Public health is good, and many are waiting too long because they want to.” Minister, really, thank you for telling me that I've been waiting for the thyroid exam for a year because I wanted to. Thank you for saying to the ladies who are waiting for a grey-dark surgery for one year, you are to blame yourself. So, this is what you tell our citizens: You wait because you wanted to. This is your message, Madam Secretary. And finally, at the end of all these five leaves of the pen text, you say: “I am sorry for everyone who is waiting.” But at the same time, of course, they're waiting because they wanted to. And you said whether we want the health system that they have in Switzerland, as they do in Finland, as they do in Germany, I don't know which countries you've all listed. Yes, we do, because we don't want long rows of waiting species. Of course, the solidarity health system and so on, all that you're warning, we're warning, but you don't want to hear it. Well, that's your problem. But do we want our patients to continue to go abroad to private people and pay for this health care? Madam Minister, do you want to continue this? Do you want our young doctors to continue going abroad? Do you want to keep doing this? So you want such a health system, because the legislation you are adopting is exactly what it is, these are the consequences of all the health laws that are currently in the procedure of the National Assembly. [[…]] You're saying we're pushing what kind of waiting lines are to scare people and so on. Well, I'm not freaking out if I say I've been waiting a year. The lady who sent me to wait for the operation of the grey ferret doesn't scare me because she sends me a document that says so. The doctor who writes on the door: “The waiting time for the first examination of the orthodontist for the child is two years, for the apparatus six years.” Nothing scares; this is reality, Madam Minister. It's a reality! That's not scaring people if that's what it says on the file. It's a real state. And if we compare the data again in September 2014-2017 – because with your mandate the lists have been drawn up, you said, everything is now at the NICU, as it should be – and the number of waiting in these years has increased to the first review, i.e. fast, regular 25%, and longer than permissible by 52%. Madam Minister, these are real numbers at the NICU. Either you can prove it completely different, and now you can't read me all your pamphlets, but you can tell me whether it's true or we're lying about it or we're scaring people. You say how good you are because you gave Topolšica so much money. And then you said you were going to connect Topolšica to a cell hospital, which is also in the negative. You didn't ask them to do any remedial programs, absolutely nothing. You've given this million 100 and you'll give 136 million without any program, so joining Topolšica Celje, without financial structure, without substantive, no human resources guidelines, without everything. Today, a Member from this region asked you how it was; in the end, you replied to him that you were doing everything and that you would now ask these recovery committees to make these recovery plans. Now, yes. Before that, you shared the money just as much as you did, without any plans, and without any prognosis in advance, what will happen. Hospital absence over 30 days; 80 million and more, you said. Madam Minister, this is also because people are in waiting lines because they are waiting and they are in hospital because they are waiting more than is permitted by theirs, so on a travel pass; they are also in the hospital stock because they are waiting. That's why they're long sick. Not because people make up stories; because they're waiting for their first exams because they're waiting for surgery and so on. That a law on long-term care is ready, Madam Minister, you have already told me at the beginning of the 2014 mandate that you will do everything, and then at the end of 2015, that the law is ready for you to have a financial structure and will now be here. We are at the end of our term of office, Madam Minister, and there is no law on long-term care and is not to be overlooked. And you can't put it out until you have the Health Care and Health Insurance Act because it's not going because it's not going. Because that's where you're going to have to figure out how long-term care is. And today we have heard from a coalition colleague that there will be no such marriage. The Health and Health Insurance Act still does not exist, it is not a solution to our financial state of health, we will not adopt this in our mandate. In a year – from previous to current interpolation – there are no systemic changes, there is no Long-Term Care Act and there is no defined basket of rights, no definition of how many citizens will pay into the healthcare system in the future. And our public health service, Madam Minister, is not free, it is not. And not to deceive men; men give money at the wages, according to their own words, to put into the health department and in the pension, and it is not free. We're paying into the health department. And for what we pay, we want some rights to be ours. And we want these rights to be fulfilled. I agree with you, patients' duties as well, of course. But Madam Minister, patients are not to blame for waiting for an eye-dark surgery for a year, for a foot deformation operation of five, six years, a coronation for months. If you have such a relationship, Madam Minister, that patients are guilty because they do not have health care in Slovenia, and that these humanitarian actions are increasingly organised where the castles are collected, the concerts are and so on, for the treatment of children abroad, Madam Minister; if you think this is a good health system, then you really shouldn't be sitting there, really, definitely not. Collection of stoppers, humanitarian concerts, departure of patients abroad, departure of young doctors abroad, impossible conditions for other doctors who are here at home, the emergency room in Ljubljana, IPP in Ljubljana, where they are waiting for 13 hours and more, where people are published monthly, taking pictures of how long they are waiting there, because there is no bed, because there is no provision for staff to warn there, doctors, patients, everyone. You say it's all O.K. Madam Minister, how can you say that everything in our health system is O.K. if, once again, if the stoppers are collected? The patient can go abroad to a private, private, and is paid from our health department, Madam Minister. You're saying we're at the top of primary health, that we're the best in certain segments. Yeah, we're also the best at corruption, in the first place, in the first place. And, Madam Minister, you still haven't replied to me about Mr Pojoun, I still haven't received an answer to Mr Pojoun's conflict of interest. I'll read it to you again because you obviously can't hear me or you don't want to hear me. Mr Požun, Head of the SMC Health Committee, hired by you at the Ministry, paid by the Ministry to prepare laws and at the same time evaluates or gives them opinions in the State Council; member of the boards of the Institute, President of the Council of the Institute of Psychiatric Hospital Ljubljana, member of the Board of the Institute at the Psychiatric Hospital Vojnik. Above all, this – from your party, at your Ministry for Taxpayers’ Money – advises you; in the end, the same law that is written with you confirms in the State Council as "oh, super law". Will you answer that question for me? Are you going to answer me, but is there a conflict of interest or isn't it? Say yes or no. Tell me. I don't think if, I don't know, it's ruled out when I don't know what law. No, you don't. You know that. Let me answer that, Madam Secretary, how's it going? So, I believe that no one in Slovenia wants young doctors to leave, that doctors working here work in impossible conditions, that nurses work in impossible conditions. But you say that everything is O.K. You tell the country, citizens that our health system is great, accessibility is amazing, the people of Slovenia enjoy one better access to a personal doctor, that is your statement. I'm not talking about accessibility. What is your availability? That I can call my family doctor anytime, and he's available to me? The availability is for me to come to the doctor right away. This would then be one of the better or super accessibility. But no, I call him and he says to me, "Come in three days, because now we have a species and I can't take you." Waiting types, Madam Minister, waiting types are made for you by patients who are irresponsible, family doctors who travel on second, so many more passengers have been, but you have not spoken, Madam Minister, let's say waiting or even waiting species can be created artificially. Now we come up with the subject that you're always talking about, and now you're cutting it off. About the doctors of amphibians. In the morning in UKC Ljubljana, afternoon in his office. Madam Minister, please answer me by what law, by which measure, by which rule, by which sub-law or whatever you cut it off, that if you perform in the morning, I do not know, orthopedically in UKC Ljubljana or Maribor, anywhere in the hospital, in the public institution, and in the afternoon the same health service in your infirmary, private. What law did you cut it with, Madam Secretary? Because you're saying that you're advocating for public health, that it shouldn't be in our health care, and it won't be, since you're the minister, but it's been solved. Please tell me, because waiting days can artificially create doctors, just the ones I've been talking about. Yes, you can. I'm not saying I can, but I can. Because you're the one who said it should be arranged. And now, at EDP this morning, doctors can't do EDPs that are assigned to them in UKC Ljubljana or Maribor, or can they do this afternoon, or how? If you are looking for public health care, the EDP should then solve all of this. Of course with a decent payment to the doctor. Not — a little too much, but you wouldn't, but you don't know if it's going to be paid or how it's going to be. I mean, it's easy to say, "We'll save you." But doctors, I mean everyone, not just doctors, everyone wants a proper payment for their work, too. Madam Minister, please, I would like to open another subject, which we have not so far, and this is the Act on the Limitation of Tobacco and Related Products. It states in the transitional provisions that 15 provisions must be adopted within 6 months of the application of this Act. How many regulations on this law have you adopted so far? You have to have 15 of them. The Law entered into force on the day of its entry into force. 3. 2017, 6 months is 11. Nine, today we're 13. 9. Madam Minister, how many regulations have you adopted? But I'm asking you because at the time the Legal and Legal Service said or even had doubts that you would succeed and that you took on too much authority. This is one question, because I would also like to talk about your powers regarding specializations. You said that if someone was talking about personnel matters, accepting personnel matters, then, of course, they must also have some responsibility. Madam Minister, you – all ministers so far – have approved specialisations on a proposal from the Medical Chamber. So you've made your decision, and you've also been responsible. Now you're going to take all these calls to the Ministry because if you're going to make a decision, you're going to have to bear the responsibility. What's the difference now? The difference is that, Madam Minister, the Minister will now decide politically where and how many specialisations there will be. Up until now, you have decided how many specialties will be given because, at the suggestion of the Medical Chamber, they have been given a hook or reduced or increased, however. Then it was your decision. And if you want, Madam Minister, to tell the truth, then so must you. You say that other countries, more developed countries, give so much more money for health care. But interestingly, those countries that give so much more for health care also pay material at lower prices. Isn’t this interesting — a country that gives less for health care, so we pay for materials at higher prices than those that give more for health care? So, Madam Minister, let these comparisons also make what the prices of materials are in these countries. Because even if we had saved – because we didn’t already know how many times – at the prices of the material, all of this could have been money to pay doctors, to shorten waiting periods. But all you're talking about is how much more they give, and that's why they have, I don't know, less. They don't have any less! They have better health systems or better care. You're scaring people, Madam Secretary. And say it again then, there are higher wages there too, higher contributions are probably, I don't know. I didn't go that far. But I do know that those countries that pay more in health care don't pay material like we do. Minister, let me make this comparison and tell you what you've done in this area. Will you continue to allow the payment of material in Slovenian hospitals, public hospitals? Answer me! If we give so little for health care, so little money is because we constantly yell: There is no money for health care, let's get it, let's give money for health care About it no one talks about it. [[…]] Nobody. Madam Minister, you didn't answer that today either. Did you reduce the cost of material or did you do it at all? Don't tell me, we've been working for three years. Again, you have not responded to bilateral talks with other countries that feel the same way as you, Minister, if we are not in the single European market. Tell me, in which case we are not on the single European market. Because, if that is true, Madam Minister, this is an immediate application to the European Commission! Because these are your employees' statements. Then these are your statements, after all. They introduce you as minister and then as minister. If such statements occur, you must respond to these statements. A colleague said today that a cartel deal had taken place during the last call for vascular support. Madam Minister, I can ask you the answer to this question. Is there really a cartel deal? Who made the deal? And what will you do about it? These are suppliers who serve at the expense of taxpayers and who have also created some of these major losses in health care homes. The next question, Madam Minister: what share does the increase in personal income, the income of health workers and the high cost of material totalling 136 million? What's the amount? You'll be able to calculate the probability. Or should I ask: an increase, i.e. the release of the austerity measures that you have taken by signing with the Fides trade union, and an increase in the price or high price of material, overpaid material — because you said that there was overpaid material — how much of those 177 million losses or outstanding claims? Unsettled claims up to 31. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Madam Minister [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, the excess of revenue, Mr. Zorman, because you know that, because people also understand what loss is. Because if you have a loss at home, you know exactly why you have it, and how many percent because you went there and put it there. The Minister will now reply to how much this represents the release of the austerity measures signed and overpaid material by the Minister. 136 million will now be put in public hospitals with losses. Madam Minister, the question for you is: What will the Ministry's actions for all those public hospitals or those responsible for the public hospitals that have created these losses? UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor, General Hospital Celje and so on. What responsibility, and where will you look for these losses? UKC Ljubljana from 6 million to 25 and is now slightly less than 100 million. I ask you again, where is the responsibility of the hospital authorities? Will you do that too I don't know what's funny, because if you get on the municipal level yeah, me, too, yeah, probably. [[…]] [[…]] Since, at the municipal level, a public institution is in charge, the mayor requires responsibility. The Council of the Institute requires responsibility. And if you are the founder of a public hospital – UKC Ljubljana, Maribor and so on – will you demand the responsibility of these people? Of course, we tell you, Madam Minister, that you have also intervened or that at some point you have also felt that you have jurisdiction at the Paediatric Clinic. In your statements, you once said: “I do not have the authority to do so by the management of the public institution.” Then call on the public office, management, Mr. Kopač and the professional director, Mrs. Pfeifer, to step down. What happened from then to today, Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc? What? Who gave up? You've moved twice, or you haven't had a board meeting, or you haven't made a decision. Mr. Kenda gladly went to his retirement, with the first of September there was another man. Things have come up at once, Mr Copač is still in his place of work, Mrs Pfeifer is in her place of work, Mr Keber is in Mr Kenda, I'm sorry, he is retired. [[…]] Madam Minister, at some point you felt the need to say, but now I am the one who will settle this matter, then at the next moment the Council of the Institute is that Give now to tell you who has these powers to settle these matters. [[…]] Once you feel responsible and called to save it, you don't. And there are still abnormal situations, and there are still various deviations and so on, which are being identified today. And you, I'll say, nothing. But you've been monitoring pediatrics since 2012. Five years. Five years, Madam Secretary. For five years, you've been looking at the agony of child heart surgery. Well, I think I've asked you quite a few questions now. According to your five-letter piarism, you'll probably find the answers and you'll be able to answer me. I would also like to ask your opinion here on how you feel about this. But the European directives say that the Bismarck health model is an economic activity and not a non-economic activity of general interest, as you explain. So I would also like to ask your reply, given that in 2015 the Government gave the European Commission a message that public institutions with losses must bear losses from surpluses or from market activities. And not the state. Now, whether you lied to the European Commission or now with this law, it is indeed illegal state aid. Because if you say so, then you will take responsibility for the hospital being blocked and the state will have to give more money. And do you have the coalition guarantee that it will accept the €136 million rebalancing? Because you're signing a Bianca or a coalition is about to pass a law, an intervention law, 136 million. We need to be aware of that, or I hope you're aware of it, we do. But I'm not sure about you because the balance is still coming. Now it's funny again, but today, what I heard in the coalition, we can be worried. But well, we listen to a lot of things, then the buttons shine, or the result is definitely different in the end. I say, I would ask you, Madam Minister, to answer, but please let me say so that people understand and do not read the pear of the written matters, so answer all these questions. The Tobacco Limitation Act, state aid denied, whether we want a health system that will not seek those responsible, the Ministry will always be prepared, of course under your government, to finance losses, such as those and other ones. The responsibilities of losing were created by no one. No one. The minister is not responsible for the downsides in hospitals, the management is not responsible for the downsides in hospitals, the doctors are not responsible. But, no, doctors are responsible for waiting periods and patients are responsible for waiting periods. I'm just waiting for a statement – well, now you've got a new leaf, now you'll probably have answers – to say that the patient is responsible for the losses. That's all I'm waiting for you to say is that I'm guilty of waiting a year for a thyroid exam and because my hospital or wherever I'm going is in danger. That's all I'm waiting for. Then I'm gonna ask myself why I put in the medical checkbook every month and what's in it for me. The loss at the hospital for which I am responsible and for which I will pay again, taxpayers will pay 136 million; not you, not the President of the Government, the taxpayers. Because you're just sharing that money you get from taxpayers. And now you're going to give 136 million without a basis, without any further action to ensure that these losses do not occur. I have to say that a man who is not in trouble and is in financial distress is asking you for money and giving him 50 euros, 100 euros to help him through the crisis, but if you don't show him or he doesn't know how this would never happen again, the next day he's going to ask you again whether you can lend me. And it's the same with hospitals. If there are no measures to avoid losses, Madam Minister, in six months, not six months from now, we will find that there are ongoing losses, we will have to give the money again. Again, but no action. But there is no norm, no standards, no responsibility, not sought on your part or by the leadership. What will be the price of services? They're gonna go up, down? What are you gonna do? There's nothing. There's no programme to go forward, Madam Secretary. They don't know. That's what the hospital says: Uh, now we're gonna get the money, but we're gonna have to keep going, because the suppliers are gonna keep pushing, the doctors want the wages. Madam Secretary, the question is quite a question. I'm asking for answers, if not now, at midnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u67	Dear Vice President! I would ask you if you could explain to me, according to the Rules of Procedure, where and which article imposes on any debater, how he can discuss – whether it is mandatory for him to speak out of his head or be able to use certain documents. Because I have a lot of papers, and I don't know if I have to take them back now, or even in the rules of procedure, it says that experts and coworkers can't walk and bring us certain material. Indeed, what colleague Godec does, namely, is not in the rules of procedure, is one simple fuck-up and a disrespectful relationship you have all along. At first, you were crying about this hate speech and what someone might say. So you think you can tell the Minister what you want, what you've been given? I'm sorry, this is unworthy, and I ask you, given Mr Tanko's hiding problem, please tell me in the Rules of Procedure where it says it. Because if not, it is your duty to warn the Member of the matter to behave with dignity, appropriate to this National Assembly! Because it's rude and it makes you feel like you want to do it on purpose — because you're making excuses to audiences and viewers — to disqualify and discredit a person because you're running out of arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u68	Of course, it's not the rules of procedure, but it's not. It's a messenger until he's rude, but if he says what he says, what we think about it, of course, it's another thing, and I think most people understand. [[…]] Mrs Erika Dekleva has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Mag. Branislav Rajić. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, not from the bench. We already had this today. I know it's a long session, I know it's a busy session, but I'm asking you to hold back. Here you go, Mrs. Girl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u69	Thank you for your word. Well, before the Minister's debate, we witnessed a play by a fellow Grimes. He spoke not so much of the interpretation itself as of the cases of his friends and classmates who are probably from another government from another time. I will certainly try to be more concrete. However, Minister, even though I know you can't interfere with the waiting lines, I would suggest that you check to see if there's a passenger for Comrade Grims in any way stuck. Every thing in life, they say it's good for something, and it's probably good for something, too. If anything, it's some kind of opportunity that's worth taking advantage of by telling people once again what we're doing here, what we want, what we have, what kind of vision we have, what are the problems, what are the blockades, in short, to throw our cards on the table. Last but not least, we're not sitting here because of the SDS, but because of people who trusted us with their voice. In any case, I will not focus on every eyepiece in the interpolation, but I will point out some of the signs that are in the eyes, especially in this sense or sense. Let's get started. I will read, not from finance as my colleague, but from interpolation, that I will be very accurate, and especially so that people will know exactly what the obvious ministers are. Let's say it's about non-action in the area of corruption. They wrote: “At the beginning of 2017, the Minister announced a general public contract for vascular resistors, which was also published on the European Public Procurement Portal, which was published in Slovenian, and therefore foreign suppliers were unable to register, which does not guarantee competition between tenderers and does not allow equal treatment of tenderers.” Well, let's see what's true. On the website of the Ministry of Public Administration, translations of technical specifications and calculations were published, on the website of the European portal, links for the transfer of files with translations in English were published, but of course much more important than this fact is that in Slovenia we have the Public Procurement Act, which explicitly states that the procurement process takes place in the Slovenian language. And, of course, the law is in line with the European legal order. Well, then what happened? Nine tenders have arrived on a common contract that did not provide for equal treatment to foreign suppliers under the SDS. Of course, there was a foreign company among them. Now I don't know if he could speak Slovenian or if he could easily access a translation in English. However, of course, all of this points to some basic ignorance of legislation, both domestic and foreign. Sadly, though, this is one of the reasons for the interpretation. And that's all you can do? I'd say now, don't smile. And if you're going to produce another interpolation or rewrite it by the end of your term of office, like you did last year, then I suggest you drop this obvious. There was, of course, a great deal of talk about the unfortunate overcrowding of the ventricles. We agree here, of course. Nowhere and especially in the field of health care should we allow corruption, although I would be interested at this point in the number of complaints written by Mrs Godec, President of the Commission of Inquiry. It is right, of course, to clarify what has been done in previous mandates, even during the SDS mandate, but let us say first of all, what is being done today and how these corruption practices could be interrupted so that they will not be in the future. That's why she's our minister, and that's why this government first called a contract for vascular resistors. Moreover, when it found that the price of the tenderers exceeded the price in the invitation to tender, the Minister acted. She has applied to the Competition Agency and will enter a new tender. In your terms, it was bought, no matter what the price. Let's take a look at another reading. Ineffective resolution of waiting periods. What do you say to the Minister? For example, the eProcurement Project as one of the tools for reducing waiting periods is ineffective and means only an additional administrative barrier for the medical staff and for the patient misleading. Well, let's see what the truth is. eTravel and eProcurement is fully and fully operational. It is true that this project began well before this Minister's term of office. And it's also true that the SDS there had problems that I thought were more mature for some interpolation than this today. The eHealth project was financed by the European Social Fund. Former Minister Borut Miklavčič did not carry it out, Dorjan Marusič said he had even stopped it, which meant the loss of financial resources from the European Fund. Well, anyway, this minister has brought the project to an end and is working today. Due to eProcurement, the patient today has a review of all health service providers, has a choice between these providers and, of course, is effective information when changing the time limit. eTravel provides, in particular, real data. For each service or inspection in a specialist infirmary in Slovenia there is at least one operator who performs the service or review within the maximum allowable waiting period for both stages of urgency. And the patient can see that, and then he can choose a performer if he wants to. I will give some concrete examples to make it more clear what I am talking about. If we look at the waiting period for knee prosthesis, the degree of urgency'regular'. For example, at the General Hospital Novo Mesto is a waiting period of 86 days, in Brežica 1 day. The distance between the two hospitals is less than 50 kilometers. The longest waiting period for this intervention is in Celje – 564 days. It's true, it's not long. But it is the shortest day, and it is in Nova Gorica and Brežica. Or another case, maybe. Orthopedic examination. The longest waiting period is 101 days in UKC Ljubljana, while the railway health centre in Ljubljana is half short. Both performers are from Ljubljana. Urological examination. If we make a comparison between UKC Maribor and the Maribor Health Center. In UKC Maribor waits 190 days, in a health care home 19 days. Ten times less. Distance between the two – 15 minutes walk. Let's move on. They also write in the SDS: "The important impact on the generation of waiting periods is the lack of staff and financial resources, and although the Minister is aware of this, she did not approach the preparation and implementation of measures to ensure the employment and development of young doctors and measures that would contribute to reducing the cost of material in health." Well, let's see. First of all, as far as the frame is concerned. For the fact that the staff is really understaffed, you are to a large extent to blame in the SDS, because the lack of staff is also due to austerity measures and consequently fewer employment of doctors. Apart from, of course, poor human resources planning and assessment of the needs of certain specialists, which, of course, should be the responsibility of those who are often referred to as professions for the purpose of the debate. From such and similar statements, it is particularly clear that you do not represent the rights of patients, but in particular the interests of individual associations and groups. And they are primarily trying to ensure that nothing changes in our country. As for the employment and development of young doctors, we have arranged this, especially with the Medical Services Act. It is with this novel that we provide measures for the education and employment of young doctors. The novelty allows young doctors to be employed, instead of, as during your term of office, at the Employment Institute, until the approval of the specialisation. The novelty also regulates a different way of inviting specializations to provide the necessary medical staff and this will help to increase the number of doctors in Slovenia, which also means the staffing conditions for reducing waiting hours in health care. Well, if we continue with one more eye. The SDS wrote: “Too long wait for interventions and visits to specialists leads to a deterioration of the possibility of recovery and timely action.” After all, it's a clever conclusion, which, of course, it does. I don't know if it belongs to a list of eyewitnesses that you usually mention when you want to suspend someone, but O.K. I agree that waiting periods – everywhere – are some unacceptablely long in Slovenia, that is certainly true. However, I have also mentioned the reasons and specific cases which clearly suggest that patients can get services in a very short time, if we want to, if we choose to do so and if we have not decided to wait alone with a specific operator. Otherwise, that's what the real minister is. The years ahead are a multifaceted problem and also a consequence of various factors, from population ageing — which is probably not the fault of the minister — to a greater demand for health services. Of course, there are also austerity measures and passive travel; last but not least, the doctor's statement and, of course, the call of the PRACTIK union also contribute to waiting periods. UM to multiple referrals to secondary level. True, waiting days are not the only health problem. I'm guessing you didn't have any trouble with waiting lines in your government either. Moreover, no one at national level has even followed them. But you had different problems. That this is true and that all governments have had major problems, they also show very frequent exchanges of ministers. At the time of Pahor – each one in half – Borut Miklavčič and Dorian Marušič, in the Janšev government Andrej Bručan and Zofija Mazej Kukovič, the government of Alenka Bratušek makes no sense even to mention. And what was the reason? The main reason was that everyone promised health reform in a row, and no one did. Of course, today they are justly disgusted when they had the opportunity and the opportunity to do nothing. Some dealt with banks like Alenka Bratušek, others shared concessions and some simply resigned. You know, even if the reform was completely under the roof yesterday, not tomorrow, we wouldn't know the effect. Is that right? Well, health care can't be strengthened overnight, even in three years no, but we've done a lot. Enough? Absolutely not. That's why we keep working. And I think that instead of interpolation, we actually deserve to be commended, because the effects of this government's solutions will be visible in the next mandate. And, dear fellows, if you have any hope, then you must thank us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Get ready, mags. Branislav Rajić and Mr Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go, Mrs. Maria.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is true, after three years of work, Madam Minister, your efforts today would be expected to receive 100% support. In fact, you run a very important ministry, a ministry that cares about human health. However, despite your efforts to improve the health system in order to eliminate corruption, health reform has been adopted in order to improve all patients, unfortunately little has happened. As we hear today, a lot of criticism is that our public health is in poor condition, our hospitals are sinking into loss. Urgently, it would be absolutely necessary to adopt health reform if we wanted to preserve our public, affordable health care for all. You know, we Members move a lot in the field and people tell us a lot of things. It is true that a little good, more criticism and not to take this for criticism, which I will now say, but rather a warning about what remains to be corrected in our health system. And if I do. We're told that in health care there is a poor organization of work. We are very reminded of this by young doctors, practitioners who, when they come to practice full of theoretical knowledge, of course want to gain practical knowledge, but often in the morning they do not know where they will practice. Sometimes they say, they walk until 10:00, they even hide and they don't know where they're going. It is true that doctors are also under-rewarded for mentoring work and say that for those 10 Euros they receive per month, they do not want to send their knowledge to young doctors. I think there will really have to be something done here if we want to keep and educate our young doctors, to keep them in our country without mass going abroad and then hire foreign doctors, less quality, less quality, ours must go abroad. Then let's go. They point to poor relationships in hospitals, poor communication, and bad teamwork. We all know how important teamwork is in specific areas, especially in education, in health care. And if teamwork were to be the right thing to do, there might not be a tragedy at the cardiology clinic that, in fact, when there was no teamwork or doctors who saw that the patient was being mistreated did not want to cooperate. We have – that we will not spit on doctors alone – very good, quality, professional doctors who are willing to try, who are willing to use new methods and new approaches to treatment, only to save the patient from health problems. So we've built emergency centres that are supposed to help improve the health situation. I don't think those emergency centers have been fully professional yet. Whether there are problems with the lack of doctors, there are a few whispers somewhere, because people are waiting in waiting rooms from 3 to 5 hours or, as I've heard today, even more. If it's an E.R., we understand it's an emergency, and even if someone's injured, they have to come right in, not wait three or four hours. If I tell you one example of family life. A 5 - year - old child had problems all night, and then they realized that he was suspected of being blind. A child five years old waited 90 minutes for laboratory tests to determine if he was an appendage or not. Then he waited eight more hours for surgery. What would happen to this child if this blind man were to spill? I had surgery on the appendix 30 years ago. I had lab tests in 20 minutes, and in one hour, I was on the operating table. And if I touch more waiting species that have been very, very much said about today. We're saying the waiting lines are shrinking. I don't think so. We've already invested a lot in these waiting lines, a lot of money. I will say, in 2017, even 41 million, 58 million is foreseen for 2018. But we do not really know where the reason is that these financial injections do not work — whether there is a shortage of doctors or again in the poor organization of work, as the director general of the health insurance company also notes. I recently read or, in fact, we all know that in early September there was a speech, that you would give 1.5 million to MD Medic or what is already called that waiting room at Orthopedic Clinic. I read that one reporter walked through this orthopedic clinic and found that waiting rooms were empty and one or two patients were in the rooms. I don't know where you got this information, so there's a lot of waiting lines at the Orthopedic Clinic. So if everything was almost empty — whether the hospital was being renovated or all the doctors were on vacation, I don’t know. I read it in the paper on September 5. I believe, Madam Secretary, that you may really need to go to the field, not you, perhaps your employees, coworkers who the doctors don't know, to maybe sit in the waiting room, would create a picture of what's actually going on, or is it really what kind of information is being sent to you by the hospital. And then, if I touch any more losses in the hospitals. They are really big, and they really need to be covered, because otherwise the hospital will have no material and, of course, patients will be injured again. However, the cause, the reasons for the deficit, must be identified. Are these programs that are underpaid? Are materials too expensive? Is the equipment too expensive? Is money being thrown out the window, as one public health professional said? The material must be handled rationally. If we ask ourselves why individuals do not have losses — because no one actually covers them and behaves like real masters. And in public health, we must be aware that the country is not a bottomless sack and must also act as a good master there. Now we're really going to adopt an intervention law. I agree that the recovery programme will also be adopted, which will be led by the recovery committee and which must be strictly monitored. If he doesn't do it the way he did, who's gonna answer? You, Minister? No, I think that in the event of non-compliance with the programme, management workers will also have to be resolved. Minister, you are the highest authority of our health care. Your powers are the most valid and your word should apply, not as you called for the resignation of the Director-General and the Director-General of UKC Ljubljana before your leave, and they are still in these jobs today, despite the fact that the majority of your members are in the institution's world. But the world is seducing the bear. We don't know what's gonna happen. Trust me, we would have done it once, and that would have affected all the other managers. People lose confidence in health care and are afraid to go to a hospital. I've listed a lot of this in your mind to save you, which is to be resolved by the end of your term of office. Dear Minister, let's not let public health go to waste in front of our eyes. Let us save him and our citizens and restore confidence in health care, provide quality and affordable public health care regardless of status or age. We all have the right to equal treatment. For this reason, to save public, affordable health care for all, I will, of course, vote against your dismissal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Mr Miha Kordiš. Here you go, Mr. Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When it sounds good in the morning, and good afternoon, and maybe good morning again, it's obvious the darkness is extremely hot. Today, however, we had the opportunity to see two more species or two forms of fear. One small form, a coward, is when Jelka Godec almost climbed up when the minister took her word and tried to eat her whole term. Thank you, Minister, for leaving a piece of the Prime Minister's appointment to my colleague Jelka, whom I highly respect. But the second, far greater fear is that the health reform that is predicted to succeed. This will also be the fulfilment of one of the main coalition commitments. And it will happen very soon, so before the elections. And that's the fear. But the minister's courage is that she's shuddering at the nest of untouchable privileges and interests so far. And its determination to prevent further disintegration of public health, also to prevent the unheard-of and absolutely unacceptable enrichment of the rare at the expense of those who need help, treatment and care, at the expense of all citizens. And that capital, which had this interest, cannot tolerate the Minister's efforts. The circles involved in this capital have activated the wind of an evil opposition current to plunge into these sails and help them to try to keep it the way it is. But that's not working. But if you look at the largest and most beautiful boats in the marinas along the Adriatic coast and you wonder who the owners are, you often hear that they are intermediaries, suppliers, that it is some strange group of capitalists. And it's definitely the same in the villa. Beautiful villas; even when you ask who owns them, they're just the same people. So, both in the jamboree of one such boat and in the stone facade of one such villa is a piece of one stolen time, stolen life, stolen health and stolen opportunities. And this is what the Minister of Health wants to end. That's why this interpolation is so gallant today. The Health and Health Insurance Act, after 25 years and countless attempts to start reform, is finally at the threshold of its implementation. It is also followed by other laws, monitoring and fundamental change in funding. This will be dispersed, otherwise, certainly transparent and subject to control. The biggest stumbling block is the waiting species. But as has already been said, waiting types are long because some patients are waiting for their wish, because they are not ready to intervene because they want a precisely named doctor because our population is also old and there is also an anti-crisis syndrome. Let us not forget that we had a severe crisis when people were simply unable to leave the workplace and seek the help of a doctor. Now they're more relaxed and they're allowed to take a day or two of the hospitals to go for a checkup or an investigation. We also had a movement of one of the unions that encouraged family medicine doctors to write as many travel guides as possible and this also extended the waiting line. The same is true of diagnostics. One procedure and new knowledge is that a general medical doctor simply cannot decide on a definitive diagnosis until he has carried out a particular procedure, and that is the progress of medicine. This also makes waiting species longer. But the ministry is working to shorten waiting periods and as we know are established categories: the'very urgent' when there is nothing up to 24 hours of waiting, then'very fast', the new one that is waiting up to 14 days. And what is a good measure is that all those who do not respond to the invitation to the examination or to the intervention, which is at least 15%, are removed from the waiting line. This is a measure they have everywhere in the developed world. I can give an example of friends in Finland who ordered him to have a hip surgery in six months to lose weight; because he did not lose weight, he had to wait for the next six months. And there's nothing here. There will be waiting periods in advance. The measures the Ministry is preparing are good, but there will still be waiting, only much smaller. However, when we are all or when everyone is using eTips, only then will there be a clear examination and there will be no speculation as to whether the waiting period for one intervention or for one type of review is such or different. And only then will there be real data. We are also facing the problem of the undernumber of family doctors and the measures in this regard have already begun to be implemented by the Ministry by comparing the payment classes of family doctors with specialist doctors. Then also a measure to hire all doctors who have completed the specialization, which is very important; the health department has so far also financed the training of doctors, i.e. those who were specialists or those who are trainees, and from now on this is from the budget, i.e. the entire health treasury is fully allocated to the provision of health services. One of the most imprudent things is that despite the high cost of medicines, the ministry managed to save 6.3% in the purchase of medicines. I must remind you that today, in circulation or simply in medical doctrine, more and more very expensive medicines, biological medicines, say, but also in this case – regardless of the price of the medicine in this respect – savings are also inconceivable. One of the achievements is that we have approached the European average of 3.4 doctors per thousand inhabitants; Slovenia is already at 2.8, which is of course excellent. It also reduced the time of training of young doctors in the primary to 3 years, in the secondary to 5 years. He's also operating on the facts here. One of these is that 450 000 euros is earmarked or spent on counselling. That's not true. In fact, 260 thousand of these are World Health Organization membership payments, including medical advice from doctors or experts from the World Health Organization to the Ministry of Health. So we're going to stay at 190,000 for three years, and this, excuse me, for one such important and large ministry, for a large 60 or 63,000 euros a year to give to counseling, so I'd rather ask myself why so little, not why so much. [[…]] And it's certainly not good to think of it as some kind of gift to someone, because it's simply not true. The worst thing that really left the hygiene minimum was to say whether we were a banana state if we had a banana ministry. Now, Jelka, with all due respect, I have to say that the ministry that introduces eReception, eProcurement, eConsultations, eTips, Intravisor – only did not introduce eBanan, but if necessary, it will also be possible – what can we call this banana ministry? As long as you carry a medical card in your purse instead of a banana and you're provided with absolute medical care, I don't think it makes sense, out of respect for the entire nation, to talk like that. But when we stay with the banana currency, because it is only 1 euro kilogram, we can also say that the ministry has spent 41,000 tons of bananas this year to reduce waiting lines, that is, 41 million euros, and next year it will devote 58 000 tons of bananas to reduce waiting lines. The ministry's task is certainly not small and cannot be carried out in a sunny manner, at the same time, because it is simply such a resource. And just before the end, when this is supposed to happen, of course, is the perfect time for criticism and for attacks. And, of course, this is the last sigh in the grunting of those who want to draw energy in the distress of patients for their political survival. Today we are witnessing an attempt on the part of the Minister of Health at the end of this thorny path to preserve and improve public health. And who would want that? Those who, instead of contraception, would legitimize the sermons of medieval thinkers. Those who would deny health care to the most vulnerable groups without mercy. Those who break public health and concessions give gifts to those who favor them. Those who deny women the right to decide on their own pregnancy. And those for whom Franja's hospital is just a nursery of red gonads. So this is a major task, one of the greatest in the history of Slovenian legislation, so it will certainly take two mandates for the entire implementation. If we are looking at the dynamics of the existing interpretations – the Minister – three more interpretations await us in the next term. But the record you will set will certainly not be the number of interpretations, the record will be a historic change in health care, the quality of our health care and the availability of health care for citizens of Slovenia. The record will also be after you've done with the profiteers and the bloodsuckers the proponents are defending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Miha Kordiš and Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u75	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Minister with her colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! For the past day, we have been talking about the majority of citizens, especially those in need of health care, which is the most important area in the world, which is health. I tried to be a major part of the debate in this Chamber and, of course, when we are talking today about the interpretation of the Minister of Health of the Republic of Slovenia, for the second time alone in this mandate, of course, as part of the interpretation of the Government. I also listened with great interest to all the coalition groups and all those Members and Members who spoke – both from the largest coalition party, Desus and also representatives of the SD. When we put this interpellation together in the parliamentary group before vacation, I expected, as far as possible, the Prime Minister of the Government, with the Minister over leave, to ask her to resign in this part of September. But that didn't happen. And here I have a lot of questions. To get back to the positions of the Group of Members. Above all, I am talking about two parties to the coalition, Desus and SD; how is it possible that such an important area as health care, as I mentioned at the outset, and as we have heard all day long, that the ministers of the two coalition parties do not support it at all times, and that the President of the Government succeeds in retaining it and continuing to lead this important sector? One of the Members of the largest coalition party today said that the results of your ministry, respected Minister, will come within the next mandate. I would sincerely like these results to come as soon as possible, because I'm afraid these results will be poor. Of course, you had a presentation today. I listened intently to my colleague Jelko, who explained why this interpolation was happening. I think that all due respect, especially in one segment, when she admitted that before she entered this National Assembly as a member of this House, she did not know much about health care in the Republic of Slovenia, just like the citizen who ever needed it. Throughout this mandate – three years have passed – and above all the Commission leading it, this area has become sufficiently aware that the arguments that it has listed today, both in the presentation of the interpretation and throughout the whole time [[...]] Surely those who are not affected by health problems may have listened to this a little distance or not at all, but the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes, who have health problems, have listened with concern. Dear Minister, when I listened to your explanation, of course your pierre service did its work here. It's a pear job, but you said something interesting. That many citizens are asking you to hold out until the end of your term of office. And you also mentioned one interesting thing when you mentioned a financial infusion. But now I don't mean the infusion that the patient needs above the bed, you were talking about a financial infusion. And when I come back a little bit now; the two coalition parties do not support you and will today remain one outside the hall, one will probably vote for one of their consciences, your colleagues from your party, of course this is their task, it is quite understandable that they must keep you, that they must defend you in such a way or another I am also happy, with great expectation – you have a doctor among you, Desus has a doctor with a lot of experience – but unfortunately, here today was a little less to hear. [[…]] What was I gonna say here? To keep you safe, many citizens have asked you to stay until the end of your term and this financial infusion. Here's the biggest problem. I will say what I know is wrong. The Prime Minister of the Government must have made a commitment to someone when he was elected Prime Minister. I'm speaking exclusively for your area today. He has chosen you to be Minister and his task is – this is what those people who want to keep you until the end of your term – are telling you to stay until the end of your term of office in this position and that a cash infusion can be carried out. But this insistence of the President of the Government and all those who insist and actively defend you today is damaging to all patients. I don't know you personally, nor do I know what you did in your previous job, nor do I wish to offend you, but, Madam Secretary, I lay on your soul that in this place you occupy, you do harm to Slovenian health. Probably not all of you are to blame; most of all it is the President of the Government who has put you in this place and who has not known for three years that something has to be done. There was no vacation yet, and both coalition parties told him that you no longer had their support. But he's still insisting, and he's probably going to insist to the end. The results are already coming and will come, as Mrs Girl said we will feel them in the next term. Today, when we talk about health care all day, there's been a lot of ridicule, maybe mockery. Let me tell you, I wouldn't want anyone to, but I've spent a lot of time at the hospital myself in the last year. He would be very unfair if a nurse or a doctor were to make a mistake. He'd be guilty. I think we have extraordinary people working in our health care. Of course, these people were trained by our country. Many times we find young people fleeing abroad, but those who work in our health care are dissatisfied with the things we have been listening to all day. If I say we have exceptional experts; we also have extraordinary bastards that the neighbouring countries don't have to take money out of bed, so to speak, our patients. And here, Madam Secretary, your insistence or insistence on the President of the Government is not going in the right direction. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course I don't mind the comments. I feel like you're on a bus, and the minister's the worst driver, and you're still insisting on her driving. Slovenian citizens and citizens do not deserve this, but especially those who need medical care every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Ivan Prelog. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will start this debate by referring to a previous debater who opposed the conclusion that we have more money flowing through corruption than in neighbouring countries or something like that. We can draw another comparison here, and very quickly we can find that the neighbouring countries do not have John Janša in politics, but not if we are already going with a rhetorical figure. O.K., for content. Our public health system has been privatizing for 25 years, cutting it to pieces, selling it out, making it available to the public, yet somehow holding onto it. And this is a will of robustness of a well-organized health system that serves the needs of the population, not the profits of those pairs of individuals. However, it has its problems, many of its problems, which have arisen and strengthened in the last 25 years at points where our solidarity, public health system has consumed capitalism in health care. And the agency of this capitalism in health is a medical-insurance lobby. This draws public funds through the levers of legalised corruption – through concessions and through supplementary health insurance. Only commercial insurance companies intercept from insurers EUR 60 million per year from premiums used for unduly inflated operating costs, for which advertisements and other health-care professionals have no connection. No wonder our public health system is nourished. Health concessions are also being strengthened. We have never given privates as much money from the public budget as we give them today, and we have never had such long waiting periods. If you think that there is no correlation between these two phenomena, you are mistaken. Where do we have the most concessionaires? In dental care. Where's the most self-payment? Yeah, in dental care. And where do we have one of the worst waiting times? Also in dental care, where more than half of doctors work in private or concessional regimes. This makes it very clear that concessions are not any solution, but part of the problem, one of the holes in legalised corruption, where nothing to me, is leaking any public funds into your private pockets. Keep this in mind in my next few points when I respond to the position of the proposer or the proposer of today's interpretation. Mrs Godcheva said that since the beginning of the mandate, I have been saying the same thing for three years in the health field. Yes, because one and the same problems persist for at least three years in this area and the right coalition within and outside Parliament – from the Insurance Association to Fides, the Medical Chamber with their internal pennants in the form of New Slovenia and Esdees – is working hard not to fix these problems. And the solutions to these problems are always the same: supplementary health insurance converted into a solidarity public benefit, unjustifiably awarded concessions eliminated and new concessions replaced. These are the measures that should be taken here and now, and, of course, in the long term, to develop a public health system to this extent, so that any private massage of the holes will no longer be necessary. And one more thing, colleague Godec. Why am I saying the same thing? For reasons of principle. However, I believe that the Members of the Esdees do not understand the meaning of this word, and that they do not understand such a state. Come in. It has been said that today’s interpolation has been reported to advocates to defend the interests of doctors or doctors. That's not true at all. We tell them the socialists are defending the interests of the medical and insurance lobby. These are not nearly all doctors — just a handful of doctors — who are at the top of this food chain. As regards supply perceptions, we are not protesting in any way that we have overpaid materials and so on and that we are not taking any action here, let me remind you that we have proposed the establishment of a public non-profit company that actively seeks the lowest prices of material on the market, even if possible in such a way as to bypass an intermediary that charges only a margin and does nothing socially beneficial for this money, and goes directly to the contractor. Here, too, a single public procurement system has shown its limitations or its prospects at structural level. It is that suppliers, very simply, agree with each other and then do not lower prices. The market does not work because capitalism does not work and the only solution is state intervention in the form, as I said, of a public non-profit company that would actively fight against such practices and actively negotiate for medical devices at the lowest price. So as far as the public funds are concerned, let me draw another line here, so that those of our public health system who are besieging and drinking from the outside, legalised corruption in the form of concessions and supplementary health insurance is engulfing it from the inside. Here, however, it is also important to note the systematic manipulation of SDS regarding waiting periods and hospital losses, as the SDS first causes a problem, and then appears in time as its solver. And even in the case of hospital losses, that's the story. The main reason for the loss of hospitals is the austerity measures ahead of Pahor's government and then the other Janša government. In particular, the discounts reduced all the prices of health services and the results of this measure – the hospitals had lower revenues, but at the same time they were not able to lower costs, especially after the salaries of doctors have increased, and therefore the hospitals have lost. On the other hand, commercial insurance companies had lower costs because they paid less for health services, but the supplementary health insurance premiums did not go down, so, of course, the additional profits of the commercial insurance company wanted at a time when health care created losses. After all, these are not the only austerity measures. The first Janša government, for example, was the one that passed the cost of specialisations from the budget to the chamber and thus reduced the total resources for health, which are already so low in Slovenia. In particular, the SDS has been most opposed to measures to increase the number of doctors in the public system. Just remember the Medical Services Act, which will help increase the number of active doctors. Further, the transfer of the planning of specialisations from the Chamber to the Ministry of Health, because the Chamber is directly responsible for the lack of some specialists, the extended obligation of a doctor who is paid by the State to specialise in working for at least some time and staying in the Slovenian public health system, and the establishment of a secondary institute that allows the work of doctors who are currently unemployed, and introduces the possibility of a specialist in the last year working with patients. To be honest, however, that no one will accidentally replace me as a coalition member, let me say that the Government or the Ministry of Health in this mandate has started or at least tried to step on certain of these bad practices and continues to draw further. Among them certainly pre-empt the freezing of the health service price at the level of 2014 and certainly not an ambitious accounting with the medical and insurance lobby. Madam Minister and for her, the Government has chosen a strategy – deliberately, unintentionally, however – to negotiate with the medical and insurance lobby. But it turns out that these structures are so strong and so unprepared for any compromise that anything other than either maintaining the status quo or additional privatisation of the Slovenian public health system is not at all ready to be accepted. And when you have found that, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and the Ministry of Health, at that point we should tighten health legislation, move towards greater progress, greater solidarity, more public and come to us in Levica to discuss how we will bring this legislation through the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Prelog and Mr Marjan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone! Today I don't know what else we haven't said on the subject of the health problem, but it's over and over again, I think we're kind of repeating. Not just today, we've been repeating ourselves for several years. However, I must say that I am disappointed that, at the Ministry of Health, you do not listen to the initiatives that we have in the parliamentary groups that we want to have good public health, which seek to make our health public, but that it will also be successful at the same time, and especially for everyone. To everyone, not just those who know someone or have money, because if it is such a country, I have to say that many times when I hear that people don't come anywhere, how people may not even have some basic first examination, so that they can be diagnosed at all, and that there is no end to it, I can say that then we are all ineffective. [[…]] I feel part of this too, especially because you simply do not want to review the initiatives we are taking in New Slovenia at the Ministry. I think that our initiatives in New Slovenia, what needs to be changed in health care, are going in a direction that actually requires some serious decision to bring an end to corruption in health care so that all those influential individuals in the country that have actually had health care in their hands for the past 25 years will be cut down. And we have these predators on other companies, but it's all state-owned, public, and there are the worst predators. Who here will have the power to change that? I'm afraid the secretary doesn't. I tracked it today, she said: 132 million extra money from the state budget. That means they probably picked up all the scholarships for next year, for all the kids, I don't know if they're gonna pick up, somewhere the money was taken, somewhere the money was taken. [[...]] Yeah, yeah, look. It seems to me that 132 million to cover now the loss of hospitals in the spring over 50 million has already been invested in health care. [[...]] When I look at it, I'm really happy with the data from the National Institute for Public Health, and I see that waiting species or the number of people are growing. There were 19 thousand 863 in August. In the spring or in June when we talked here – I think even with the Patient Rights Act – there were 14 thousand 426. In addition, we — whether we or the Government or anyone, the state — have given more than 50 million for the purpose of reducing waiting lines; this money is about reducing waiting lines. After two months, it is found that there are 5,000 more people waiting for that first basic review. So there are at least 19 thousand,863 people in this country waiting for what the doctor will tell them, waiting for some specialist examinations to find out that they'll finally know what it is, what diagnosis they're going to make. I'm sure the number's a lot bigger and people have to spray all their incomes together and take credit and I don't know what to get their diagnostics done first. And that's sad. And that is why it seems to me that we can no longer go through a programme like that of the Ministry, as far as public health is concerned, because it is simply a planned economy. We say this hospital can have, I don't know, this year if it reports, 400 stipends, it's 200. Yeah, but what if something happens in the middle? We are not flexible and easy when they make their quota, the money runs out, they don't pay, and that way they're always sinking into some negative or unprofitable state and then wondering what we're going to do. I stress once again that in New Slovenia we want good and accessible public health, accessible to all, quickly. How's it gonna get there? I think it's practically bird-eating now, because you can easily see experts saying, "Yes, well prepared in New Slovenia, good program, we agree that changes are needed, but, I don't know, time is not right." It was said here today that the 4-member family in Switzerland pays for the basic additional insurance of approximately 2 000 Swiss francs. I went over my thumb to see how much Slovenian families were paying. Two thousand euros. Calculate – two parents, some average personal income, how much do they pay? We're on the same page. If not more. And we're talking about how everything in this country is okay and that we're underpaid, that we have very good. I think we're all comparable at the same level. If someone gives a year, I don't know, between 150 euros and 250 euros for health insurance, it is said that it is €2 000 500 per year, or €2 000 per year. So we're on exactly the same page. And I think the quality is still different. Different. It seems to me that as far as the pursuit of corruption is concerned, it is not being pursued sufficiently. And of course, as a result, bad practices are at different levels of our health system. And even when he draws attention to some corruption, then the answer is, when we looked at certain accounts in the ventricles, if there was a corrupt act, the biggest problem was who sent this anonymous letter, not if it was true. [[…]] Who warned you about that? And we in the country have a problem not for the one who is sinning or who is stealing, but for the one who is responsible for such a situation and for such acts in the country. This seems to me completely confused with a fair, healthy country and, of course, with some social leadership of countries, that they may be dedicated, which will not actually happen to them, and that we will say nicely: For the four-year term will pass, and then the other one will move on, and let us hope that whoever comes along will be able to make it possible for them to settle matters further. We have passed the Patient Rights Act, which actually identifies or determines what rights are for patients: access rights to health care and provision of preventive services, the right to equal access and treatment in health care, the right to free choice of physician and healthcare provider, the right to adequate, quality and safe health care and the right to respect the patient's time. And I really wonder if Slovenian citizens really have all these rights that they belong to under the law. I don't know if he has them, if he has to wait for some first review even after a year or more and get home notification: Due to the long list, waiting types please sign the agreement that you are ready to wait outside the marriage deadline. What's left of it? Especially if he's older. We in Slovenia mainly have a very fast ageing society. And these people are simply waiting, hoping that their medical condition will not get worse, looking for different alternatives to some healer, and I don't know where else to go, and they're paying to hold on to the day when someone's going to diagnose them, and maybe they're going to get into some health system that they can then take to the doctors they need, which will at least make things easier for them if they don't get rid of it. It seems to me that in this area it has been said that something will be done, but the Law on Patient Rights has not brought any changes to the additional money. I just want to know what you've concluded at the Ministry on the basis of data on how the number of people waiting for the first review is increasing, where almost 20,000 patients are waiting. How did you figure out how to fix these things? Because it just doesn't seem like money can help here either. It is said that either there are too few doctors or these waiting types are rewritten on someone’s skin so that from people who actually have 450 pensions on average, they can draw only as little as they would have for a decent life.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mrs Marusz Škopac. Here you go, Mr. Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! I think there's a lot of talk about waiting times, but we're not aware of why waiting times are ever coming. Waiting years are not only a problem in Slovenia, but they are faced by all countries with public health. Of course, it is necessary to ensure such conditions in the healthcare system so that waiting periods do not become even longer. The problem of waiting days is multi-layered and therefore all the causes of waiting times need to be known so that we can take appropriate action. We also deal with longer waiting periods due in particular to changed demographic trends and population ageing, as this mainly affects the increased demand for health services, due to responsibility for our own health. In Slovenia, however, waiting periods are also due to austerity measures by past governments, which have also unduly saved on health care. In recent years, fewer doctors have been employed, while more patients have been on their way to a secondary level. In the public health network, the number of people who were sent to the specialist increased by less than 14 % between 2013 and 2015, which meant that 175 thousand more were sent to the specialist. However, the reason for the increase in the number of waiting is also that the life expectancy is increasing. According to the latest data, it has been extended over the last 10 years by 2.6 years. I personally believe that the current policy follows these changes responsibly and with appropriate measures, so that this government is also making changes; more resources are provided; measures are taken at system level to ensure that each individual is provided with quality and timely care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mrs Marusha Škopac and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u83	Mr President! So, I've been thinking today whether it's even worth even discussing or not. After everything I heard from the Ministry, what I heard from the SMC, it would probably not be necessary to discuss, this interpellation would not be necessary. Because what these SMC colleagues said today from the Ministry would be to understand that we live in Switzerland, not Slovenia. That we live in Switzerland, not Slovenia. When I heard the debate that in the health system everything is ah, in general, and that our health system is excellent, that we are first-classers in the world, as far as the health system is concerned, and so on and so forth, that I will not spend too much time on this. [[...]] It is amazing that on the other hand, when I go among my people, only in my valley – because it is called the Svečanska valley; on the one hand is Velka, on the other side is Sweet Top, and in the middle of the Svečanska valley – and there I meet my friends, people ask: “Tell me how pleased you are with our health system?” 97% of people say: “Just don’t ask me! Just don't ask me that! When we need help, there's no one. For every story we wait, please, we walk around, especially older people who do not find themselves with these eTravels and so on and so on." But today my colleague Jelka told me how it works anyway. And today I was listening to a colleague from SMC who was saying that eTravelers were a bomb, that it was a story, that it was the highlight, that it was something that I wouldn't say. Then I would think now that this man, these people who discussed here today with the Ministry, live on Mars. Maybe! You might just come here on a trip and listen to this story, but you don't know anything about reality and you don't know what real life is. Otherwise, I can't explain it to myself. Then I listened to Desus and the SD, who are full of criticism that the Minister is, that nothing is going in the right direction, but because they want to keep the coalition, they will, of course, vote for the Minister. It is said that they don't give a shit what they think about it and how things work with patients, but because of the political desire and the goal and the interest to remain in the National Assembly until the end of the term of office, they will support the Minister. Yeah, what a story that is! What kind of policy is that? What is the responsibility of political parties? But I'm not talking about SMC, like I said before, I'm not losing words, because what I've been listening to today, and I'm really going to throw up here. And one of the gentlemen, I will not read the message because it's too badly written to read it. [[…]] He wrote to me: “Really, please read my message.” But I've been saved. In case anyone asks, I can read it. [[advertising from the hall]] I'll decide that, not you. You, sir, please. Well, because I'm so worthy, I think it's appropriate that we keep a level of debate so that we don't go into that part of the debate when the president – the gentleman who is now in that place – when he should stop the matter, he didn't stop it. But well, he doesn't have that much experience yet, maybe next time it'll be better. So I made it very clear at the time, and I also criticised and was critical of the leadership of the National Assembly and I am still behind it, but I will not open this question, because this is not a key issue for these things that we are talking about today when we are talking about interpretation. The Minister and the biggest government party with the highest responsibility for running the country should and should be aware that things need to be resolved in such a way that they are close to people. But not so much so that some elite is satisfied, those who have money can come wherever they want, and the poor people are not interested. When you speak in superlatives about the health system and the state of our health system, that party and those people who say that have nothing to do with the poor Slovenian people! They have nothing to do with the poor Slovenian nation, they have nothing to do with those who can't live, who barely survive from month to month, who have 400 euros! How can he pay someone to solve his problem so he can survive? Of course you – this elite you stand for – have great, in superlatives, I guess if you have money for cubicles. You don't even know where to put it anymore. Then I will only get into this situation when I explain to you how the elite is getting the money. And who holds their poles and how you hold their poles. I'll get to it. I'm just gonna take a little more time right now because it's just the right time, because the game is gonna start and so on, and it's only right that you listen a little bit. And that you will hear here, that you will understand, that you will hear what is not your heart, and that you will also find that it is not what you are telling the reality, that what I am saying is reality. To understand what reality really is. Because if you have pockets full of little ones, how can you know how a 400-euro guy can pay someone or some kind of checkup for 200, 300 or not know how many euros. He can't pay for it because he can't survive from month to month. He can't pay for it! So he's waiting under the sweet sky when he dies. And some in pain, others in this way, third in this way. And you say – and this is SMC and the Ministry – that everything is ah, in fact, great. And all these proposals you have proposed, including these proposals for laws See, you have six months to complete your term of office. [[…]] You've been in position for three and a half years. What have you done to this point? And now you're proposing solutions that are not acceptable to almost anyone. Not for patients, not for doctors, not for nurses, and so on and so forth. You have proposed solutions that are unacceptable to most of these people and you are trying to convince us here that we are now "ugly ducks" – the Slovenian Democratic Party – because it warns and tries to establish a normal system where things will go hand in hand to patients and those who need solutions. And what you do is direct mockery from a poor nation. You defend the privileged, you defend those who have pockets full, you talk about the public health system, you say you want public health, on the other hand you defend the elites, those who can pay; for them public health is one way or another. What about that poor nation that can't pay for it, and what kind of public health care is for them if you have to pay almost every checkup? You almost have to pay every checkup! And now, to continue. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the SMC – this is very important and remember, as well as the Ministry of Health – you said today that waiting species are everywhere, in all countries. And now I'm going to read you something that I got on the table at 3:30, and you're going to see that it's not like you're just lying to the public. You cheat publicly, I have papers, look, everyone can read. But I will now read it, quote it, because we have enough time to discuss it, and I ask you to listen, especially to the SMCs and the Ministry. See: “Why do Slovenians spend more money than Swiss? 'If I'm a private employee and it turns out I cheated, my boss kicks me out of work the next day, sues for damages, and probably I'll never get a job anywhere in the canton.' The question of how corruption is prevented in Switzerland is answered by the aphthalmologist Matthew Beltram, who does his work both in Slovenia and in Switzerland." I'm sorry I can't put it so well because I'm not an expert in this field, but this is where the expert writes. That's important. And then it goes on to say: “When the National Assembly today discusses the interpretation of the Ministry of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc, I offer an article on the experience of a doctor operating in Slovenia and Switzerland, where waiting lines, which are one of the sights of Slovenian ministers, do not know.” The waiting species in Switzerland do not know and you have always tried the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people and also the Slovenian Democratic Party, which proposed this interpretation, to convince the world that they are waiting species like us, but after what I have here in my hands, it is true that this is not by simply lying. And then it goes on to say: “In public health, all doctors with a license are included in Switzerland, and patients can choose freely between them. The doctor shall provide the patient with an invoice paid by the insurance undertaking or, on the basis of the invoice submitted, send him money prior to the expiry of the payment period. The patient pays only deductible franchises on first contact with the doctor in a given year, and for each service also covers 10% of the costs incurred, but not more than €630 in adults and €270 in children. Swiss private care is considered only by doctors or outpatients whose services are fully paid by patients themselves. These are only selected by the most vulnerable patients." So, I hope none of you will be sick, but I think from the SMC from the Ministry. And below: »Ophthalmologist Matthew Beltram lives between Slovenia and Switzerland. The study was conducted in Ljubljana, a specialist exam in Paris. He worked for 13 years at the Ocesna Clinic in UKC Ljubljana, and since 2015 he has been half-employed with a private person in Slovenia and half in Switzerland. The Swiss system also tasted from the patient's point of view. From experience, Slovenians should have the same quality and affordable services as in Switzerland, depending on how much we pay for health care.” Please let the Minister listen. »We devote a lot of money to the Slovenian health care community than to the Swiss.” We devote a much higher share of our salary to the Slovenian health care community than to the Swiss. “Beltram has shown in a detailed calculation that the four-member family in Slovenia spends 14% of their family income on health insurance, and in Switzerland, if all four of them get the worst, 10.7%, in case they don’t need health care, 7.56% of their income – while there are no waiting periods. Why don't we protect our health as well as our car?« Listen carefully, because this has a very important connection. “Health is the most precious good. It is not like a car that we buy this year or two years from now, so demand is high and supply or financing is limited in Slovenia.” Limited. “The insurance company, as in the former Soviet Union in 1950, says: ‘This year 17,000 newborns will be born. That's how much we're gonna pay.' Then 20 thousand newborns are born in the year and serious problems occur.” Look, I'm not gonna keep reading all this because it's too much. Well, look. What you're saying in the SMC today, what you're saying at the Ministry, it's not true. The waiting species are not everywhere and they are not in Switzerland, as it is written here. So, there is a way – not socialist, as we introduce it with these reform laws – that the problem can be solved so that there are no waiting types. Now, because we have talked so much about these waiting lines today, and the minister says it's all ah and in general, of course, under the first point I will only speak a few sentences about waiting lines and put down a few concrete arguments that we are right to say that what you claim with the health system in Slovenia is all ah and at all, it is not true and is a pure lie and complete deception. Here we have, the National Institute of Public Health has served us with certain arguments, with certain research and so on and, among other things, says: “On Day 1. 8. In 2017, 120 thousand 739 patients were waiting for initial examination in 13 selected specialist clinics, of which 19 000 863 were waiting above the limit, representing 16.45% of all waiting for an ambulance. On the other hand, there were 103 000 681 patients waiting for 48 selected health services, of which 29 000 607 were waiting above the limit, representing 28.56% of all those waiting for a service check. Together, 49 thousand 470 patients are waiting for both ambulances and border services, representing 22.04% of those waiting.” Then we have here: foot surgery - 779 days is waiting period; surgery of the splenic veins – 647 days; ear and mastoid surgery – 606 days; then the second procedure on the peripheral scar – 431 days. And I could count, look, the whole leaf. My dear colleagues and colleagues, if this is normal, if this is all ah and even O.K., if this is the normal functioning of the health system, if this is normal, if the minister here claims that everything is fine, that she is solving problems and that things will go in the right direction and that they are going in the right direction, then I wonder which country I live in. Then, look, we have a comparison. You've probably seen this, or you've looked at it. Look at that. Look at that. First, 450 000 euros was spent by Milojka Kolar Celarc for advice. We'll figure it out. I'll introduce you to a few things. Look, then the waiting seasons have increased dramatically. [[…]] We have specialist outpatients: 1. 9. 2014 – all waiting were 92 thousand 510, now we have 121 thousand 442. Thus, by 30,000 or plus 31%, the number of waiting has increased. If that's not enough alarming information for the secretary to fly away immediately, right now, right now! Then over the permissible waiting period; 1. 9. 2014 was 9 000 499. 1. Seven. 2017 – 16 thousand 643, plus 75%. So, 7 thousand more waiting over the limit. Isn't that relevant to you? And you say the Minister does well! And today I've been listening to SMC discussions, superlatives. This is what you think the Slovenians are going to buy, that the Slovenian people will buy that they will believe you, that what you were saying here today – pamphlets, nonsense, lying, lying, pardoning, saying that we are the fifth column, etc., that I will not explain, and I will not go into this because it's amazing, no. [[…]] [[…]] It's amazing when you're going to land on reality. Or must there really be an election before people tell you that they can't watch you anymore, that you're not to watch anymore. You really aren't to watch anymore, well, because no, you don't have, look, you don't have that much responsibility to yourself to say: We remove from our species those who don't go along the way that we've drawn, that we're the most unaware of any customer, an ethical-moral party. Now I'm gonna keep going, you're gonna see what an ethical-moral party means. I'll show you now. My dears, Cerar and his team, you will see what an ethical-moral party is, how money is spent on counseling, etc. And that's pure corruption, clean places. Counseling is a clean place to go. Clean ends to the cubicle. Stealing directly from the poor people out of their pockets. That last cent has to be pulled out, so they can really go as soon as possible. I'm sorry I won't tell you where. Shameful, sad. Now maybe we'll go so I don't stick around too long at the point of the waiting line to spend money. My colleague asked the Ministry a question, Nada Brinovšek, and the Ministry answered some questions. How much of this, I think some things are definitely hidden, not all of them, but look, we have: Tomaž Glažar – €615 for advice, then we have mag. Irene Kirar Fazarinc – €615 for advice, then we have mag. Franci Kodelja – 2 thousand 15 to advise, then we have Peter Požun – 12 thousand 115 to advise, Andrej Doles – 599 to advise, then Dušan Keber – 16 thousand 300 euros to advise. A man who is retired on the Red Cross is a boss, etc., but of course this is probably Janez Zemlaric who ordered that the minister give him a contract of counseling so that he could put something in his pocket and he could have it left to someone else there at the Ministry. I don't know how they share that money. But this is the theft, the clean theft of taxpayers' money from their pockets. Clear neighborhoods! And then we have Professor Grega Strban to see with him – 19 thousand 08, then we have a performance plus, d. o. o. – Imagine what the ministry pays for, why it steals money from taxpayers' pockets – the Ministry of Health has concluded a contract to help prepare presentations and communication with different public. I think you're crazy or something. And here first 15 thousand 600 euros, then an additional contract, once again 16 thousand 200 euros. And then we have: a law firm, because it doesn't matter which, up to a maximum of EUR 10,000, the first contract and the second contract is again EUR 9 000,455. And so on and so forth. Look, on the one hand we put money into the health system, almost 140 million is given by this law, and on the other hand we steal money from the system! Now imagine how many ministries there are, how many of these advisory contracts there are. I'm sure this story could only be done by the Ministry. I wouldn't need these advisers. And look, the Ministry has 138 employees. 138 people! So figure out if the average wage is gross, say, a thousand 200 euros, what this is for 138 people. Together they have 266 employees at the Ministry, with the other authorities, and they can't do these things! So they need counselors, they need 50 counselors or 30 or 20 to do one marriage the way it has to be. And here it is for counseling, where there is someone else, and there are two who have advised similar things for the same marriage, so many and so many hours — ten, twenty, fifty, one hundred, eight hundred and so on. Yeah, then why do we need the Ministry? My dears, we don't need him if we need advisers. Let's pick 30 counselors, the state makes a deal with them and have them take the ministries. We don't need any. We don't need to have no idea how many secretaries of state who pay handsomely together with the minister for nothing, work nothing. What kind of work do they do when it comes to paying a counselor for every matter? That's insane. This, look, this isn't normal. And I told you how many ministries we have, times as many advisory contracts; look how much money disappears from our system! Why say, say, Americans, that we have pumped 50 billion euros out of the Slovenian state from independence until now? Why do we have 33 or 32 billion debt? Why are we paying a billion 200 interest? Why? Tell me! If everything worked properly, this money should be in the Slovenian system. It all went away like this, and then there are yachts, and that gentleman who was the Minister of Health has a yacht there for 700,000 euros or 600,000, and so on and no one has to account. Look, my dears, I think this is the problem we have to face. And today the minister spoke, even when we talked a little bit about corruption, what she did. But why isn't the government now I'm going to say this: the government has all the ministries under control, it says, has the Ministry of the Interior, has the police, has the Ministry of Justice, has the Ministry of Public Administration and so on, and it would connect with each other, and it's not the devil to get these corrupts who steal. Look at what's important to me: it turns out who was overpaid and who was overpaid for the venous cords. What's he got to look for in the system when a call is made? He should be unconditionally eliminated. There's nothing left to look for in there until it's cleared to the last cent of the story. And justice and the police should just do it, and at the time, there's nothing more to look for in this system. And so they would clean themselves up, and then they would say, Ah, now the minister has taken the game seriously. The grounder in the back probably couldn't draw anymore, but I wouldn't say Keber, and the gentleman I was talking about, who has a ship, and so on, couldn't pull the drill anymore and tell the minister: you have to give it a contract, you have to give it a contract, this advisory contract, and so on. This can't be happening anymore. As long as it's the way it is, it's going to happen if today's just the name of the company changes, and it's going to happen again. What's this story? What country is this? What kind of legal state is this? Tell me, what kind? And if the minister would do that, tomorrow we'd have life support for that price, artificial hips for that price, and I don't know how much money. And not just that. The important thing is that you do not want me to say anything, and I will stay behind bars, as I have said many times. [[…]] And all they have to do is collect -- every ship, there's no one here, someone for 700,000 euros buys a ship and doesn't have to answer to anyone. Such a man who has been in such a position must bring back immediately. At that moment, the police have no more, no more seconds of access to it, no more seconds. [[…]] They have a marriage. We have adopted a law in Parliament. We've done our job. The other authorities and the government have this power because they have ministers put there and the government then says, "I have nothing to do with it if it's there, so we have this organ, so they have an organ for it." What organ? But if this is all in one government sit together, all the ministers are sitting together responsible for it. [[…]] They're responsible for all things in this country. I think that we have the Government to do so, for this is the executive branch of the government, which must take appropriate action at a given time. And there's no problem in situations like this. Every second we are available in the Slovenian Democratic Party, every second we will help you. Believe me, since we're all of the same opinions, no matter who's in which party the bandits need to be locked up and taken everything they've stolen. When you look at it, hundreds of millions of people know about people who have done that, who have cheated, have downloaded systems and so on, and companies have replaced and chained up with a hundred or ten, fifteen companies and so on. [[…]] He knows The police know everything. But I don't understand, look, then someone tells me about the government that this government is ah and in general, and that this government is working on some moral-ethic principles. What moral-ethic principles? And today, as I have already said, look for example: waiting lines have been extended so long, beyond the limit and so on, and Mira Cerar is going to the private, and with this, this government has concluded a contract to pay him fat. He's there nice and you're saying that concessionaires are private, I don't know, something, I don't know who. [[…]] None of them are. Look, if you have a clean private in the health system, like they have in Switzerland, you pay for everything. That's where you pay for everything. At the same time, however, it must be ensured that those who have 400, 500 or 600 Euros of pension or, say, 700, 600 Euros of minimum wage, that they have the same. And in Switzerland, 30% of the country is co-financed, subsidised, so I must say. Because I have papers here, and then the secretary can read it if she doesn't know how to save things in our country. We're not in socialism anymore. We're not friends anymore. We live in a new system, in a new political system, because we have changed this system, and the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes have decided on a new system, but not on the larger atrocities that are now happening in our society and our country. This is unfair, unacceptable and extremely irresponsible, and I hope that the Slovenian people will once say it's over. Look, let's say there's another interesting thing. I showed it yesterday. You know that? Did you read that? Did you read that? It says here, see, a very important thing, very important information. “A voice against the second track is a voice against Cerara’s prey.” And the third point reads: “Slovenian health care, bottomless pit. Another €136 million will be injected by the Government with a rebalancing process into Slovenian hospitals that are beating the loss because they are inefficiently managed and because they are filling pockets with court suppliers through purchases, as we have proven several times. According to the Financial Assessment, a new tax injection is not expected to bring any greater benefit to patients.« I think it is very figuratively written here that this confirms what I am saying today from the very beginning of my debate so far. And, of course, at least I would expect this government coalition, the minister and all those who know that you have not done your job, I have now laid down a few things for you in what way I would solve the problem. [[...]] I've got you strung. And I don't know that you're not capable of finding out with all the powerful apparatus. Why didn't you call Switzerland? To get those papers like I do. Look, we're in the European Union. There's no problem at all! We have these representatives all over the world, Slovenia, in almost all countries. And through them, we could get data on how they have this problem handled. And we could start and I would say that the right approach for health reform is to change and find different solutions, as we now know them and as now things work. And if we did that, we would set new, healthy foundations for starting a system that would be fairer, fairer, and people would, so patients would have solved the problem of these waiting types and that I would not say and finance and so on and so on. But while we're building a story on the old socialist system, we're going back to Mr. Kebra, and we're listening to people who, unfortunately, I'm not saying that he's a bad person, I never said that, but look, we have young people who are capable of proposing solutions that are substantially different from those in the old system. [[…]] People who have just worked in the old 98 system or 95% of their lives, you have to understand that they won't leave their skin and they just don't go out of some frame. That is why we have young doctors and these capable people all over the world are Slovenians who are extremely capable. This doctor, whom I said before, who works here for a little while in Switzerland; why do they not call him when the law is being prepared? Why? Why don't people call you and say: You have experience there and you have experience in Slovenia, so tell us how? If we spent money on a guy like that from the Ministry, I wouldn't be angry, and I wouldn't mind. Because there certainly wouldn't be corruption in there. But I am sure of all these advisory contracts, and I say this is questionable – 99% – that this is all a corrupt story in the back. That those of us who are steeped in the ministry — one, the other, the third, the fourth — should get it, in order to pay them the credit to help maintain this rotten system. Rotten system. Because if you can't clear up with corruption, if you can't do what I told the minister, those who are known to have sold vascular support for about 80% of the price difference – you know who did it, and you know who did it – to get out of the public tender [[…]] If there is no legislative basis, there must be an extraordinary meeting tomorrow, and you will have all the votes of the SDS. And we're gonna do it, and it's not gonna happen again, and things are gonna go the other way. Healthy foundations will be set up, which go in favor and opposite to patients. And we're not going to have these waiting types that I was talking about, that your brain is stalling; surgery of your toe finger – 779 days, surgery of your splenic veins – 647 days and so on. And we will not talk about waiting lines rising from 2014 to 2017 by – all waiting – 30,000. Over the unacceptable waiting period, they increased by 7,000. And you say you're doing great. Now look, now I really don't know if we're all crazy in this national council already, or whether it's already Slovenia, I don't know, I don't even know what to say anymore. I really have to say that I'm devastated, sad, and we can't believe this anymore. I am fighting for some rights, and I hope that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are always trying to convince that the privileged, who is doing well in your life – nothing wrong. [[…]] But we want everyone or the majority to do well, not just one group. And let these leftist parliamentary groups slowly understand that we are in a different system in Slovenia and now we must step together if we want to solve the problems. Without that, it just doesn't work. But those who are guilty of the situation so far, for once, we must take away from them all that is theirs, because nothing is theirs, because everything has been stolen. And if we're gonna do this, I believe we're capable of taking a step forward together. But that's definitely not the way it is. I listened to each other today. But most of all, it bothers me that one of the messengers came to me and said, "Behold, we disagree with this; this man is doing evil." Finally, he says, "Just because we will support the President of the Government, we will support the Minister. What kind of explanation is that? What explanation, what responsibility? I'm also asking Desus and SD. Please, this is not normal. Those Members and Members of Desus who will vote in favour of the resolution – the hat down in front of them because I think they have their vote. But those who will vote for it, I think they have exceeded all the limits of good taste. They say one thing, they do the other. Just as the SMC does, as the Ministry does; it loads to the extreme limit. The first interpolation was the same, the second interpolation was practically the same. And a few more sentences about the legislation that was submitted to the National Assembly. Patient Rights Act, Health Act, and I'm not gonna mention it. Look, no one's very much in agreement with this legislation. I know, and it's logical that different groups are probably in the background somewhere or how they're opposed. But that the professional public and those key factors that should be linked to each other and bring some story out to convince politics that they are on opposite shores, and that is not clear to me. And no one in this national council is going to convince me that. On such important matters, however, it is only necessary to find some consensus within those who are professionally subdued and who are in control of the matter. Of course, everything needs to be done to get the lobbies out of this story. That's not easy, that's hard. I know. That is why I said earlier: To exclude such ones from public tenders and so on and put the story in its place. Those who abused all subsystems, not just health, social and so on. Socially so that we do not consider ourselves; there is so SD the one who has control over everything from A to Z. Here in the health system now we know who those key actors who have control of things are. But because we know them, because we know and those who run this country have the opportunity to cut this thing too, and you don't do that, but you keep the stall. [[…]] And that is unacceptable, and the voters and voters of the Slovenian people will not forgive you, believe me. And you can talk here, say as well as you like, you can have 100 regime media, you can have no idea what; there will be a critical mass that will say, "Look, stop." We don't mind if you live, but let us live. And that's the Slovenian people, the one with 400, 200, 300, I don't know, the one with the minimum. We're responsible for this here, and that's our job. And, Madam Minister, after all that I have just said, after all that I have read or quoted, I don't think you really have room here in this National Assembly in this way. You can always come, all of us can come here, but I think, as Minister, we should now pack this story and Jani Möderndorfer ask him to take you out of Parliament. I mean, in the lobby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u84	Mrs. Marusha Škopac has the floor. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. Well, in this more than a half-day discussion of my colleague Pojbič, it is my conclusion that colleague Pojbič has a poor separation between the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government and expects the executive branch of authority to intervene also in court. Democracy doesn't do that. [[advertising from the hall]] Of course it is. Comrade Pojbich, if you expect the minister to do things that are not in her jurisdiction, that's it. [[advertising from the hall]] In addition, in the elections, Slovenian citizens and citizens, our voters, gave votes to selected parties and trusted the programmes represented by the parties. And in this case, this is the ruling coalition representing the public health system. And we will not agree on this, because there is a difference in the concept that we represent. And it is perfectly logical that you will oppose most of the laws and solutions that we propose because we advocate public health, unlike you. And what is evident today to Minister Miley Kolar in this interview? Its responsibility for failing to act in the field of corruption in health care is evident. It is clear that it did not respond to the statements and testimony of persons before the Commission of Inquiry concerning the detection of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular braces. The Minister is not a member of the Commission of Inquiry and therefore does not have all the documents available to or submitted to the Commission of Inquiry during the course of the investigation. Moreover, the law and regulations do not provide for or allow the Ministry of Health to carry out investigations and prosecutions of individual doctors and others involved in the suspicion of committing corruption. Let me remind you that everyone has the opportunity to report a corrupt act. And who would be more competent and more competent than the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mrs Godec? We set up a parliamentary commission to investigate alleged abuses in the sale and purchase of vascular cords last April on its initiative. She said that she would try to identify political responsibility in these overpayments, which, among other things, do not go beyond our term of office. At this point, I ask the President, Mrs. Godec, has she filed any criminal charges based on all the information and evidence you are referring to? As far as I know, so far no one has. However, if the information is not correct, I am sure that Mrs Godec will correct me and tell the general public what she has done to the relevant authorities. You're criticizing public procurement procedures. Yes, our government and our minister have first called for a contract for vascular resistance because she has been responsiblely aware that practices have been established in the past that need to be interrupted. Once the invitation to tender for the purchase of vascular resistors has been successfully completed, we expect that the normal market value for vascular resistors will finally be reached. This is also the action of the Minister, who takes a responsible approach and solves decades-old problems. Furthermore, it is also clear to the Ministers that the general public contract for vascular resistors, which was also published on the European public procurement portal, was partially published in Slovenian and that therefore foreign suppliers were not able to apply n therefore there were no providers from abroad. As colleague Erika Dekleva has already said, the legislation states that the invitation to tender must be written in Slovenian. Publications on the Slovenian public procurement portal and on the European public procurement portal must, by law, be the same as in the same language. However, a single code from the European public procurement vocabulary is listed in the public procurement contract, which means that any tenderer – also a foreigner – can immediately understand what is the subject of a public contract. And how was it publicly ordered, this time a public order for the venous cords concluded? The offer was made by 9 tenderers and I should say to the general public that the expert committee appointed by the Minister has prepared the terms of the tender and the professional part of the procurement documents. This section also identified the highest acceptable price, which the Commission reached on the basis of documented prices available in Sweden, namely the Stockholm district, which is comparable to Slovenia by population and also by number of hospitals. The tenderers did not respect the condition of the maximum acceptable price specified in the invitation to tender, so after reviewing all tenders received in early September, the contracting authority decided not to award the contract and that the invitation to tender would be renewed. In addition, the Ministry of Public Administration has submitted a complaint to the Agency for the Protection of Competition because of suspected cartel negotiations, i.e. the Government of Mir Cerar, all reasonable suspicions of both corruption and crime and the suspicion of cartel negotiation, to the relevant institutions. To substantiate this with facts, I will list further proposals for prosecution, which Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc has submitted in her mandate to the relevant institutions. In 2015, a proposal for prosecution against the economic company SCT d.d. in bankruptcy and IBE d.d. Ljubljana because it is suspected that when the Onkological Institute of Ljubljana was built, it was not installed or that it was wrong to install fire hatches. In December 2016, the KPK was sent a statement of a suspicion of official coercive actions in connection with the execution of the tender for the award of concessions. In May this year, police were prosecuted in connection with suspicion of irregularities in the planning and implementation of energy rehabilitation and renovation of facilities at Topolšica Hospital. To refresh your memory, this is the hospital that didn't have the money to pay its employees' salaries this year because it went to an investment without a closed financial structure or a home without financial resources, without money. The Ministry of Health carried out 9 public procurement procedures within the mandate of Milojka Kolar Celarc, two of which have been completed, 6 of which have been completed in different stages of implementation and one will be repeated, as I have already said. It should then be pointed out that the overall public procurement for medicinal products achieved a financial savings of around 20%. In addition, important investment developments have also been made in this mandate. Ten new emergency centres were completed, and the water supply at the Oncology Institute was finally restored. We know what the problems were, how many poisons there were at this institute. After six years, the construction of the Ljubljana ER continued in this mandate and, as we know, the works were concluded within a contractually agreed deadline. The premises were dedicated and waiting for the equipment. They should also be equipped with medical equipment and new premises are expected to be operational at the beginning of 2018. In addition, all activities to continue the project are actively carried out, it is said, further stages of the Ljubljana ER. During the budget period 2017-2018, approximately €35 million of integral resources are provided for the continuation of this project. Other major ongoing projects are: public contracts for the execution of construction, craft and installation works and the supply and installation of equipment for the establishment of the Ljubljana Dispatching Centre. We know that the dispatch centre in Maribor – the premises are finished, equipment is waiting – and the operation of an extremely modern, fully equipped, new dispatch centre in Maribor is also expected to start in early next year. The implementation or finalisation of a complete central laboratory with a 24-hour emergency laboratory of the Clinical Chemistry and Biochemistry Institute is under way. As I said before, the budget provides for all the work and calls for the continuation of the second and third parts of the emergency bloc in Ljubljana. An additional four operational halls will also be established at the Ljubljana emergency room for the needs of the emergency surgical block. As you can see, on the one hand, we are talking a lot about the health legislation that we are adopting, on the other hand, there are many of these very practical areas of the Ministry of Health, particularly on the side of investment, preventive activities, awareness-raising, coordination with the interested and professional public, and we would like these good practices to be significant in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u86	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u87	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that my colleague has asked me to tell you how many complaints we have filed - whether I am personally or an investigative committee -; my colleague, I think you know that you know the course of the investigative commission, how long it has been working, where it is at this stage, that we are now in the stage of the interim report and that I have already announced that there is a suspicion of crime and that there will also be an interim report on these cases. Would I like to ask myself something else if I were you - what has been done so far by institutions whose ministries you also have in this area in the SMC? If you don't mind. Because there were quite a few statements before the Commission of Inquiry when, in essence, the NPU, SDT, the Court of Auditors, the State Audit Commission, the AVK and some other institutions should react before us. All AVK wants from me is why I make these and other statements. Let me give them the documents they have, but they don't see any problems. That's what I'd like to ask myself. SDT at the justice ministry, the justice minister is SMC. NPU; Chief Majhenič, Head of the Ministry of SMC. And so on, I don't mention it. Mrs. Škopac, if we were to monitor the work of the commission of inquiry, we would also know that we have problems with the conclusion, wouldn't we? And then we would also know that it is good that the commission of inquiry closes a set and then goes with the weighty documents to declare crimes. On the other hand, it does not go as well as with you when you say: “Broken overnight 50 concessions”. Nothing. Just talk. I hope, of course, that the coalition will support this interim report, which will have some conclusions, and that there will be unanimous support here. I now expect this from you because you ask me to do something; I'm not the only one on the investigative committee, there are seven of us, it's true that I'm the president and I'm running things, but it's seven members. Once again, competent institutions should probably react earlier. Since 2013, they have the same files in their hands as the commission of inquiry, the same files. That I will not now explain what was at the hearings of these institutions, because you had to see it, but also Mrs Vervega's colleague, who is very well involved in the investigative committee, could have told you this, and there would be no question today. As your government has done everything on the current and so media-covered and even public tender for vascular resistors – I don't think so. I don't think so. Just send it to AVK is too small. But again, of course, institutions can react to these things themselves. And once again, these institutions, the ministers are from the SMC. Wait for the interim report and I expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u88	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Mr Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Vice President. We waited and waited. Eleven o'clock is running. We've heard a lot of interesting things, but we could still do one parallel between the first interpolation and the second, given that it's the same person, for the same interpolator and, finally, even the proposer is the same. And those who have taken the documents and read a little will eventually see that word relations are the same. Interpellation is, of course, an act that is very often used in this mandate, with a clear purpose. Not to prove the Minister is doing anything wrong. Without disclosing any specific matters, because if they wanted to, they would have put them on the table, but they did not say anything yet, except that they always go around and, of course, everything that the Minister is not actually responsible for, is responsible by default, because the Minister of Health is responsible and has consequences for everything and has a word relationship. Of course, those who today do not say or intend to do so are completely silent and forget that in the first half of this term we have adopted a document based on an analysis – a strategy is said to it – and, of course, based on this strategy, we have received one basis or a basic document, where we can already know in advance what the ministry is actually going to do. More! This is in fact, it is one of the rare documents where, in fact, very precisely – I am talking about the Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025, but of course some of them were extremely dissatisfied, but today they are completely silent – you have defined not only what and how and how it will work. You've got more. You have specific objectives defined, impact indicators, units of measure, baseline value, baseline year, value target in 2025, for example, and a source of data, timeframe and, ultimately, the source of funds for the envisaged measures in the budget. You have all this information. Why am I even saying that? Why is this really important? It is particularly important because today everyone is referring to when a law will be passed, when a measure will be adopted and the same question will continue to be asked. Well, my thesis is the following: I've repeated it many times, and I'm gonna have to do it again today: if someone's broken it for 25 years or hasn't done anything at all, and you expect everything to happen in three years, you're damn wrong. More! In my previous interpolation, I made it very clear and foretold — those who speak and think that waiting lines will be reduced in one year are damn wrong and are lying. Although this is a word that is now, interestingly, very often used by the proposer and thus gladly distributes it vehemently across the hall and even shows who is actually lying. So today, exceptionally, because it's not my way and my style, of course, I use that word just because, you know, there are situations when people actually, if you speak the same language, only then understand what you're saying. Because we're going to that level to make it clear. Today there was a speech about the eyewitnesses to the Minister, and I hope to say that she has already rejected a great deal of evidence. She didn't even answer either one of them, which is the only right thing, because I personally wouldn't respond to at least four, because it would be beneath my honour to answer and descend to such a level of individual Members of the SDS, who today had an extremely low debate, and yet they literally understood that in democracy you can speak and say everything. They have understood this so literally that they do not understand that democracy really means that you are primarily responsible for what you say, but not that you can say what you want. Me [[…]] [[Laugh]] It's hard to listen to what's going on; the proponent can't sit in a chair anymore and monitor the whole thing. At least she'll understand what it's like to be handed over to the minister. Well, this resolution also defined measures to reduce waiting types. In the part where we anticipate a change of legislation. Amendment of legislation is one of the most important. At first, at the first interpolation – well, the proponent finally stepped out because she can't listen to this anymore because she knows it will be difficult – I actually told her one thing that is very important and I have to say it again. It is that all those who really want to stop the minister today want to stop her for just one reason. After three years, they have found that things are so far-reaching that, for God's sake, what no minister has done to this day can even be realized. And this is particularly true in the part where everyone is actually shouting that it is still the last moment and the last moment to make a certain breakthrough and switch, which is the privatisation of Slovenian health. May – the action is very coordinated – this year we have received Members, members and members of the Committee on Health of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia one such material from an organization called AmCham Slovenia – and some are very proud to cooperate and even refer to their documents and their proposals, etc. – and in this accompanying letter, Mrs Mag. Ajša Vodnik, Executive Director of AmCham Slovenia, describes and presents to us that, in fact, from a health and quality committee that they have within this organization, they propose and actually recommend that we read this material, where they really represent their view of health in Slovenia, which should actually be. If we quickly read it superficially, we will see that there are actually certain things that we are actually all fighting for: raising quality, reorganization, digitization, in short, such beautiful things. But then we have to come to the magical side where everything is really revealed, what this document is really talking about and what the purpose of this document is, in fact, the views and concrete proposals of the Health Commission in the area of financing the health system. And then he says, for the first time, a health cart. We all know where this medical basket came from; just go to the Faculty of Economics, where they explain very extensively on the basis of this group, where they split up and tell us how vertical and, of course, how horizontal the allocation of funds we have already said several times in this House and, finally, the Government has determined through the debate that we will not have it. Then we turn away, two sides, and we get to the point. I was horrified when I read it. And this document speaks of which political parties actually advocate this system. Now I'm going to read you the title: The healthcare industry is an economic sector. The health industry is an economic sector. Doesn't that sound dangerous to you in this ear? The health industry is the fastest growing industry in the world – AmCham Slovenia. We all know where this is coming from. It comes from a country where, in fact, after 180 years they have finally done something similar, something small – I will tell you, 3% of what we have in Slovenia long ago, 3% of what we have in Slovenia – when the former President of the United States finally agreed to provide 30 million people with the weakest, at least approximately health care, at the most basic level, which is not really comparable to our health system. The new president is the second attempt to actually bring down this Obamacare, this health system in America. [[…]] And that's it. And let me tell you that there are very few in this House right now who should listen to this because they know why they went out because they don't want to hear it because they're going to say that they're for the patients' rights because they're going to say that they're for the patient, for the cancers, and I don't know what patients are all about, but they're not going to say that they want to have a market and a market economy in health and that it's an economic activity. That is true, we have already experienced this on the committee yesterday and today, of course, in the debate of the rapporteur Mrs Godec, when she asks: Is not the intervention law really illegal economic assistance of the state? Hello?Oh, my God! Did I hear that right? We know two types of assistance under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Member State referred to Article 107, which speaks and I have to read it to you because it only speaks of unlawful economic assistance and we will understand what this article is saying in this Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. “Unless the Treaties...” — is said to be State aid — ‘Unless otherwise provided for in the Treaties, any aid granted by a Member State or any type of State aid which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring individual undertakings or the production of individual goods shall be incompatible with the internal market as far as trade between Member States affects.’ Did you find any entities inside the health system that would fit into this matter? No, no, no. Of course not. You can't. In the following paragraphs, of course, he speaks and breaks down the article on what those exceptions are; among other things, in Berlin, for example, in Germany, he can – since Berlin has been divided into two parts for a long time – directly the state gives State aid because they were such huge differences. And that's what you'd like to bring into our health system right now. Why? Because we want to prove that there is an inequality between private and public. But you forgot to say, and you don't want to say that we actually have the Law on Public Institutions and not the Law on Economic Companies is talking about something else. [[…]] And the Law on Public Institutions on the basis of Article 49, and Mrs Godec was right to say when she told the committee yesterday that, in fact, the minister said several times that the institutions were obliged to cover and ensure a manna of losses. [[…]] Yeah. And if you read Article 49, it is very clear: “The institution is responsible for its obligations with the means it can use.” And when he can no longer do so, he writes in the second paragraph: “The founder is responsible for the obligations of the institution, unless otherwise specified by law or act establishing it.” Which means he's bound to cover his losses. Why did the losses come about? Why? It has been said several times, but it is right to say certain things that are being debated today by some, some even think that money is lying on a hospital bed and that directly to the patient is being stolen and in short, I will say they are doing such impossible comparisons that are not even acceptable to this Parliament, however. [[…]] If we go to see exactly what was actually going on, we can see when these debts arose and who really covered it. I will say so, very clearly and directly, but you can comment; I am very happy and I challenge everyone, of course, to defy me. This government, this government, not any other government, but only this government has created the conditions that within the budget it could provide 136 million plus the deletion of 7 million depreciations so that we can finally start covering losses in public institutions. What all governments should have done a long time ago. That's true, and by the way, colleague Dimic -- you know, that's not what I'm going to say right now -- I should personally be a very large three-engine body on a cubicle to put 136 million into hospitals and tell them that I took the kids for scholarships. [[…]] It's called manipulation. You know, that's rude of what you're doing. That's rude, Mrs. Dimic. [[advertising from the hall]] But as we're used to from your client, it's about kids, always. This is your rescue plant. Whenever something's wrong, you always have to mention kids, because that's where we all get stressed and freaked out. 136 million, I'm sorry, that's not even the kind of money that's meant for scholarships. Do you even know what you're saying? Well, let's get to the numbers. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Dimic, you will have a chance to replicate if I misunderstood you or you misunderstood me. In short, however, if we go to look at the exact numbers, what really happened to the debts. In 2016 we have 165 accumulated losses. In 2015 – 130, in 2014 – 127. The reasons for their growth have been repeatedly explained and explained today. But now I'm going to come back, so you won't think it happened, like I heard yesterday, that this was all produced in these three years. Only in these three years did this happen. No, go look back a little bit. In 2004, there were 42 million accumulated losses. Did someone cover for them? Nobody. 46 million 230 in 2005. 53 million in 2006. Did anyone cover these losses? Nobody. 70 million in 2007. 45 million in 2008. 38 million in 2009 and 2010 47 million. No government — not Janšev or Pahorje’s, not later than Janša again and then again from Alenka Bratušek — actually went to cover these losses. And to cover these losses of Comrade Shirtzel, you're on your own, so I actually like it. [[…]] [[…]] At least they won't be able to replicate. Well, what's important is that no government has actually covered these costs so far. And now we move on to what needs to be cleaned up. Colleague Godec in her initial part I was initially afraid that this was an interpretation against Peter Požun. [[…]] I thought I missed the National Assembly. Indeed, there has been so much talk today about this gentleman, Peter Poząnu – we are talking about mags. Peter Poząnu, because they do this consciously, they miss the title, they only use it where it is needed – and certainly Mr Mag. Peter Požun has so much experience in the field of health that all those who have mentioned him today and, of course, wondered why he advises in the cabinet of the Minister of Health do not have a minute of the experience he has. Not a minute! I'm sorry, but if we go to the advisory contracts – but I think they have more accurate data in the ministry and if they want, they will talk about it – this money went to millions in the past! Millions of dollars. And today, we're going to move on and talk, because it's about consulting contracts. Excuse me, what is wrong with Peter Požun signing an individual contract of copyright or an honorary contract to perform certain tasks? What's illegal here? No one said a word. Is it illegal that he's a state councilman? It was even said that this Mr. Peter Požun would adopt the law. Sorry, they don't make laws in the State Council. Either you're fooling people, you're talking nonsense, or you don't know what the State Council is. But it's true that the State Council, because you say he has interests. Excuse me, the State Council is the only institution in the Republic of Slovenia that has the right to say that it is an interest association. Because there are people in there on the basis of interests – economic, local communities and everyone else, union, I do not know what other interests are. I'm sorry, I was there years ago for the State Council to be lifted. You weren't. It was me. But if we go back to that story. It's the state's world. Firstly, Peter Požun cannot decide for himself whether he agrees to act as an opinion in the legislative process, but must decide on the group sitting on this committee. And you won't believe that there are SDS members on this committee. Well, that's interesting that they supported it. Now you have to make a deal at home. Are you talking to each other or what you're doing? I don't know. That's your problem. But talking about Peter Požun's decision is extremely unrealistic. The next thing I know, it's important that you tell him he's a party member. I would be very happy if I were ever a Member because he has enough experience. But he didn't make up his mind. That's his problem. He didn't even go running. And since when is it forbidden for a party member to be active in the service of the State Council and not to cooperate with the Minister? By the way, we're not going to get along too well, and I'm going to end up with Mr Mag. Peter Pozno, because I've spent too much time. But I had to do it for the public because you slandered him so much today that it doesn't make any sense. And you're particularly kind because you're doing this with a man who can't even defend himself, because you know he doesn't have a word and he can't even answer. czech, an eyewitness to the minister, to cooperate with someone who is politically and clientically defined. Excuse me, this Mr. Mag. Peter Požun also consulted in the cabinet of Minister Mazej Kukovic. But that's where he was good?Oh, my God! Why don't you say it out loud? And this was the minister who was a member of the SDS party or in its quota in the government and who was swinging on the swing with Zidar. Yeah. And what do we get out of this? For a year after that bang, all we had was problems at the Oncology Institute. That's what we had. That's all we had. Well, if we move on. Waiting types; today you have repeatedly mentioned waiting types, as you keep repeating and so on. And in the end, and I have to say, it was really surprising that there was one fear and fear that the website would disappear, that the NIJS would disappear these waiting types and we would not be able to watch them. I'm sorry, if you ask me, and if I had the power and the power to do it myself, I'd be forbidding it to be published there today. I'd ban it. First, because it is only a tool of political manipulation and secondly, because I no longer believe in this data for more than a year. I don't believe that because they were collected in different methodological ways, because one was sending data, the other was not sending, the question of who updated it. And of course, since NIJ was just some collector, there's just this data gathering and there's this one serious problem. But why do we have a problem? Because of what the Minister has said today, it is frightening for me and it is necessary to say it out loud again, very clearly – out of the 49,500 waiting ones you so yell and scream about in this quota, which are exceeded, waiting abnormally long, it is said, beyond the limit allowed; 60% of these patients simply do not know what they want. And this is their sovereign right to jump here and there and decide that they simply will not go elsewhere, where they have the opportunity to get their service in a substantially short time. I wonder when the law on patient rights will be adopted and it will be arranged there that these anomalies will no longer be happening and I tell you today that I am sure that if I spoke at an interpretation less than a year ago or less than a year ago, that I believe that in a few years, waiting types will be reduced, I tell you, and I am sure that some hospitals and some health institutions will warm up to patients. [[…]] I'll tell you where this case is, where I feel on the water, that it will happen. And I am not a proponent of any private ambulance and awarding concessions just in three beautiful, far from it. But the example of the MD, which you wanted today, of course, skillfully politically, when there is a Prime Minister in the infirmary for God's sake, or the Prime Minister should not have his chosen doctor, we have the freedom to choose a doctor in law. [[…]] And of course then you connect quickly: A, of course, of course, the President of the Government is there, the minister gave the concession there. Of course, do not at all distinguish what the program is or do not separate what the LP is, do not separate what the concession is, nothing or no more, deny or deny and do not say that the concession has been awarded by your Minister, Mr Bručan. [[…]] Keep that a secret. Minister Bručan has granted this concession, say it out loud, no, and I will once again honestly believe that your sincere intention is to talk about the health issue. What happened? When this MD center or MD Medicine – or I don't even know what it's called – is in Bohorič, when they expressed their desire and willingness to be ready to carry out operational interventions and fight to get funds for what they're about to do, they suddenly found institutions that couldn't do all these services before, and now they're willing to do it so that they can do it now. You know why? Because they found that if patients went there once and were satisfied with the services — you know, a good voice reaches into the ninth village — they would start to say, "Go there." And there's gonna be a serious problem. And for this reason, of course, the problem is that today these waiting types and these lists spoil the real picture. That picture's not really there. And we're basically punching in the blank today, and we're repulsing and saying that this is really too much and so on. But I, I'm sorry, I don't know a Slovenian citizen or a resident who wouldn't get first aid in Slovenia today. If you know him, show him to me, tell me where it happened that he didn't get your help. Second, of course, it is also necessary to know that contributions are needed. And what I think is still important to mention in the whole case is that today there were so many words spoken about this – at the beginning even as an aspect of jesting – that we do not separate what it is, but we are satisfied with the health system as services or, of course, it is also wrong in the system as regards payments and so on, you know, to do a comparison of this, in a way that because of the individual excesses that will always be present, and if we had a brilliant health system, that individual excesses would throw mud, as if we had a propeller or fan spread it all over the room and then fall down and are all guilty of everything and then, of course, mention heart surgery at the Pediatric clinic, then mention the Radana, then mention another couple of cases and we are right there; that I am not talking about a colleague who is, of course, even his own example, giving all of course, as an excellent example, how the epot works. [[...]] [[...]] I'm sorry, I'm a health care user and I'm a regular person every three months because I'm having this kind of trouble. And I don't have any problems with eTips, no problems with eRecepts, no problems with the healthcare staff, nothing at all. However, I know that the health system has problems and problems because it has no regulated financial work and, of course, because the concepts and design of organisation are outdated and do not work. And that's two major differences. And that is, of course, to be remembered when we are changing legislation. Today, if you've noticed, I've listened to every word that's been said. [[…]] The proposer and the proposal for a position which has been submitted; they do not talk about the laws that we will have on the agenda for another week. More than that — if they mention them, they speak as if we were going to change the health system next week. Let's say we just look at the Health Act. The Health Activity Act even mentioned some Mrs Godec and said, "You know, I'm not saying anything and I'm not favouring the private, but I'm talking about what the service is and how things really need to be done." But on the other hand, we must not forget one thing, we must not forget it. We haven't had public health since yesterday, but we've had it all along. We only define it even more and define procedures and individual steps even more. In particular, if we are talking about concessions to be accessible in a manner similar to that of Bručan, 50 concessions will be awarded in one night, over the weekend, without an invitation to tender. Not in this way, but otherwise, with the invitation to tender and, of course, with the criteria, who, when and where, in what way. And this is a fundamental difference because I really have serious problems when I ask myself, who really advocates the health system on behalf of patients or on behalf of those who exercise and actually care for their own good. Well, here your supreme leader would say, you know, the concept is a problem, a concept. And, of course, I agree with him when I say, "Yes, indeed, the problem is the concept, in the concept is the problem, because you advocate a concept where everything needs to be privatized, put on the market, and then get a fight." I'm sorry, as long as I hear from you that it's a mutual insurance company and that they're paying insurance premiums, I know you have a serious problem in your head. This is not an insurance premium because you don't get an insurance policy. When you want to do this, of course, it means that you have, of course, opened up the health system on the market and started to create and give the opportunity to generate profits, where this is not even allowed in Europe or even makes no sense. The problem is also because you deliberately talk about private people when we use the word concessionaire, because of this, of course, you mislead all those who do not separate – and here Mrs Godec is right – that the patient does not care if he comes to the public office or comes to the concessionaire or comes to the private. The only question is whether a private person comes to the door — in the end, when does he find out that he is with a private person? [[…]] When she tells him it costs so much and so. Then he realizes that he has to make arrangements quickly so that he does not do so again. Yeah, the emergency centers today were pretty much around the emergency centers. [[…]] The proposer boasts that these emergency centres have all been carried out before and so on, but does not say one other thing that is important. If the Minister had not completed all the procedures in time in that year, I would have lost European funds and those centres would not have been completed. So don't say it's just someone who started it. However, the absolute procedure of the emergency centres had already begun much, much earlier, only they had not been completed. That's the difference. And then I'm going to finish with the thing that seems most important to me. Throughout the whole debate, not just in the field of health and not just in this interpretation, everywhere – in the beginning, in the middle and in the end – it begins and is always manipulated by the word corruption, when everyone here is corrupt, in the entire health system everything is corrupt, here is just stealing, just no one is chasing it; but they do not say that we have all the relevant legislation already adopted. They don't say the minister can't fly through hospitals to see who's corrupt and who's not. That is why we have plans under the law that each director in a public institution – this is a plan for the risk of corruption – has to adopt and, of course, also exercise control over how this is actually being created. And those who know that this corruption is – here, of course, I call upon all these Members who continue to use it so massively, why don't you report it. Why do you always use this only for interpretations and committee discussions? Report! That's your job. It is your duty to report this if you only know that there is this corruption, that a corrupt act has taken place. It doesn't have to be criminal. It can only be corrupt. Let's report it. Let's start talking about names and surnames! I'll be heartily glad to hear this, because then I'll see your active role. Because by then, I'm going to understand that it's just a word game and manipulation. This minister has begun to detect corruption, yes, and also to report it, and now you want to show it as if in her mandate all acts of corruption are corrupt. No, we're finding out what was going on. Last but not least, Mrs Godec, who runs the commission of inquiry, reveals the inequities in her investigative committee – for what periods? From the point So the things that have happened, and I hope they improve every day. [[…]] Well, I have to say, in the end, I'm disappointed, especially, that's why you know, as long as it's a bar debate, while someone's outside talking a little bit of chimp, because they're not happy with something, that's all right. [[…]] [[…]] But when Members discuss this during a direct transmission and say that this health system has collapsed, that it is a waste of people dying – although I do not know who is dying, they never say who, they always say they are dying – that it has simply come so far that things are actually on the question of how they are going to work, I always ask myself about the responsibility of all these Members. In fact, you know, once one thing gets stuck in people's brains and when they say, "On TV, I heard that because of the health system, and it sucks the health system, people die," I think this is an extremely irresponsible act, because on the one hand, you say that doctors are good, that nurses are kind, that they provide you well – but the health system doesn't work. One thing just doesn't work together, so it's all just a political slipper. And I was hoping to find out something new. The difference between the previous and the current interpolation is only one. You used to squirt a little everywhere, and now you've picked five points on these startups, and unfortunately you haven't really argued. I'm sorry. I'd be happy to. But it is the fact that interpellation is a political promotion. Today I have even seen one of the kind of refugees that one of the Members of the same parliamentary group instead of talking about the interpretation, half of his debate has been devoted to the praise of Mrs Godec, how well she knows health care, even though she had never known him before, until she came to the National Assembly. It's kind of an unikam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u90	Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Messengers and Members! Allow me to answer the questions that have arisen during the last part of the discussion and to say something that has been deliberately or unconsciously misinterpreted, especially as far as waiting times are concerned, about the number of those who are waiting too long. And these are from the last list for July 49 thousand 469. All I have said is that 61% of these waiting or good 20,000 have turned down the possibility of delivering a service to another operator, where, of course, they would have been in line earlier in the waiting period. And I would say, the reversal of my facts, supported by arguments and tests, does not seem right to me, because you just said to tell the Slovenes and the Slovenes to wait because they wanted to. I was just telling you what the actual data shows. Of course, they are also those who want to carry out an inspection or intervention with a specific contractor and, of course, have also signed a declaration that they will wait longer, even though they would have received this intervention significantly faster with another operator in Slovenia. Now, O.K., I will explain, but not in detail anymore, because this has already been said many times – about MD medicine, d.o.o. And I would kindly and kindly invite Mrs Godčeva and Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, as well as Mr Pojbič to coffee with me to the Ministry to show them the documentation and to explain the details again. [[..]] Maybe things are a little bit more complex and complicated and, I guess, they didn't understand the details. I would only add this because the story has evolved further that I awarded a concession to a doctor who is the personal doctor of the Government of Mr Mir Cerar, which is of course not true and is, I don't know, a construct or a ignorance: I say this was a concession granted by the Municipality of Ljubljana on the basis of a public invitation to tender because it is within the jurisdiction of the local community. It was a family medicine concession. The municipality carried out all the necessary procedures, attached the consent of the Medical House Ljubljana, Medical Chambers, Health Insurance Institute in accordance with the applicable legislation. The role was complete and our services reviewed and the Ministry complied with the procedures – as well as in other concessions at the local level – it gave its consent and consent and the concession was awarded by the Ljubljana Municipality. I have only recently learned that Mr. Prime Minister has his own personal physician there. So much for that, but my invitation is true that we will once on paper look and clear up what happened and what didn't happen. According to the number of employees, the Ministry of Health is the second smallest ministry in our country, immediately behind the judiciary. When I entered my term of office in September 2014, if I may, I would use the word that this ministry was devastated. The cabinet was empty, there was no secretary, no director of the Directorate. You won't believe it. Even the managing Mrs. Bratuškov didn't want to do the handovers, and she just ordered an official to hand over the business to me. Of course, I requested written authorization to hand over the business. That's when I think if memory doesn't fool me, that there were about 114 regular employees for an indefinite period of time. At the Ministry, the number of employees in recent years, probably because of the frequent exchange of ministers, fell very quickly. This ministry had 130 employees years ago. When I got here, I told you what the situation was like, and it's still very fed up with human resources today. Why? Because, of course, many areas of expertise are not covered, as the Court of Auditors also found in its review. You know that health care is developing very quickly; new technologies called Health Technology Assessment, which are virtually not covered and many other activities. We have a body of composition, this is the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, who has over 100 employees, but this is an inspection body and covers all supervision or health inspection, and the Bureau of Chemicals, which has 24 people. But only the ministry is, as I said, extremely humanely fed. These are also reasons or one of the reasons why we help ourselves with counseling and business contracts. And there's another very important reason. In the preparation of various materials, let's say, I don't know, a mental illness strategy, dementias; these are so specific medical knowledge that, of course, only doctors specialists from this direction are able to master. And now I ask you what is more rational – or to conclude with such a specialist a consulting contract for a limited amount, for a limited time, to help find professional solutions, or to have employees of all these specialists. Because then, I hope, this ministry by number of employees would be one of the largest, because the width, the diapazone of the activities covered by this ministry is very large, which is probably what you see for yourself. Now to the numbers. We spent 450 000 euros on consultants throughout the mandate. By the way, for comparison: in 2010 – I am talking about the past practice of other ministries – 3 million 117 thousand were spent on such contracts, 2011 million 73 thousand, 2012 million 431 thousand. And something else, of these 450 thousand, hundreds of thousands have been paid for the work of experts at the Health System and Policy Observatory, who have helped us to do the analysis and who are also helping us occasionally today, and 260 at the European Office of the World Health Organization, also in the analysis. But this money includes €200,000 of WHO membership, which should be paid anyway. And I argued that I actually got this WHO membership plus some extra money and that I got quality and quality services. And today, because we have good business relations and even collegiate relations, they help us with a lot of things. Even when it is necessary to fight and argue in Brussels for the Slovenian health system. And that means, if I count what this means per month – an average of EUR 5,000 277. I think that's very rational. But I will not quote your Minister, Mr Bručan, who, even in democracy on 17 July, published and said that if we were to write legislation at the Ministry, the laws would never be ready. And I don't want to talk about it anymore, but so much as talking and manipulating these horrible numbers to get you a show. Come in. It is obvious that I am acting towards the destruction of public health institutions. In all the meetings of the Health Committee, I have listened quite the opposite: to limit the private initiative and private doctors, to give a monopoly and privileges to public health institutions because we have in the amendment to the Health Act a provision to be made for future concessions only where public health institutions are not able to provide services to the extent necessary. So, contrary or contradictory statements. With regard to the legalization of livestock and the separation of public and private. I, too, would be much more pleased if I could make a very clear distinction between public and private by law today, but unfortunately I cannot. Because I'm responsible for patients. Why, you'll ask. Because we know we're missing a thousand doctors in the system. And if we did that today, accessibility and waiting periods would be longer. However, I agree and there are also solutions that will be possible to do so – according to my assessment of 2022 – when about a thousand 830 doctors will come from the system of specialisations, which will, of course, be provided with employment in our healthcare system. Therefore, in the new law, we have set limits and criteria for when and how health workers working in a public health institution can work with another employer. We have set a time limit and, of course, a condition that it must obtain the consent of its parent employer and that it must do in accordance with the standards and criteria of all the work required of it in the home public health institution. And something else about business conditions, because it's often manipulated, why and how employees of healthcare workers can be better paid in private. Because they operate under completely different conditions. You know that public health institutions are subject to a single salary system of public servants – this applies, of course, to doctors and everyone else in health care – that private health care providers do not fall under this salary system and, of course, they can also give different salaries to their employees. In addition, we all know that with a business contract that is substantially cheaper than regular employment — with all obligations, holidays, education, hospital, regressions and the like — it can be a significantly cheaper labour force or a significantly lower cost. At the same time, private health care providers are not bound by the obligation to respect the Directive or the Public Procurement Act, which means that they have free hands and can also negotiate directly with suppliers. Why am I saying this? Because there is so much talk about who is more competitive, that we need competition in health, our system. And the truth is that private people do business on more favourable terms. However, each country - as the European Commission also points out - when it gives public funds to someone, is obliged and must ensure and regulate the rules of the game, how it operates and how it works with public funds. You will not believe this, I recently received a question from the European Commission, why the state did not prohibit profits in supplementary insurance, why it did not demand that these profits be returned to the health system. So, talking about how competitiveness in health and the concept of health services as economic or economic services will bring better care, shorter waiting periods and lower health costs is a complete mistake and a demagogic. You have practical examples everywhere you look, in any country. And a few more to Mr. Pojbich, who was reading some documents. I hope he knows what a franchise is in the Swiss system. I could just say, you probably all know the deductible franchise in the car helmet insurance. But according to his household, this means what he read, that in Switzerland health services have to be paid from the pocket up to a certain amount. And that's the franchise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u92	The representative of the proposer shall have the floor. Mrs. Godec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u93	Thank you very much, chairman. I would have responded here to my colleague Jani, who said that no government has so far given money to public institutions if they were lost. That's not true. The report of the Ministry of Health on the operation of health institutions and the JAZMP in 2011 states that Izola General Hospital, Murska Sobota General Hospital and Novo mesto received funds in 2009 – this fall in total income is seen due to the impact of the means to remedy the multi-annual insolvency – acquired by the institutions in question from the 2009 budget. This was the decision of the Government of 14. 5. In 2009, and then, according to the Government's decision, Izola Hospital received 3.4 million, Novo mesto 2 million and Murska Sobota 0.95 million. This is contained in the official document of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services. That's why I read it because it's right out there. At the time was Minister Miklavčič and colleague Jani was in the party, I don't know, LDS, really, somewhere. Well, it doesn't matter, because now we don't know where it's gonna be, what it's gonna be. Well, it's not true that this government is the only one that gave money out of the budget. That's the first one. Next. Have you also adopted these internal acts of conflict of interest for Mr Požuna? You have informed him that there can be a conflict of interest, because all of them must submit to their employees, internal acts. It's about reporting corruption. I have already said that we will not just report to the Commission of Inquiry across the board across the board, but that the joint interim report needs to be confirmed in the National Assembly, and then, of course, things will run out. And you're still talking about those 50 overnight concessions, and nothing's happened yet. And it says what period is revealed by the parliamentary investigative commission. From 2003 to 2016, i.e. during the period of this ministry. What period should we find out for now? We still can't figure out if it hasn't happened yet. You can't find corruption any further, so Comrade Möderndorfer can read his own, pointless statements. And second of all, what is Madam Minister? Look, about MD Medicine. [[...]] I didn't say they didn't have a concession decision. That's not what I said. I only said that they had an orthopaedic concession decision to have an outpatient activity contract on the same day, but they have no hospital activity. And I ask you when you will sign their application for hospital activity, Madam Minister. And no minister just signed for hospital activities; even Mr Bručan said that no concessions, he said publicly, did not sign for hospitals for operations. None. And I'm asking you, just because MD Medicine wants to make patients, I want to provide, but their role is at the Ministry of Medical Affairs. And now you're deceiving people to tell us that you've given them a concession. I didn't say that. I didn't. I'm just asking you if all the necessary bureaucratic papers have been resolved so that they can shorten waiting periods because patients are waiting. You haven't answered me yet, but you're just saying we're deceiving if you gave them a concession. That's not true, Madam Secretary. Concession 2006 – an ambulance contract; tell me about the hospital. They meet the conditions, they have operating rooms, I don't know what to do, like all the other concessionaires who, of course, have to do it. But if something's wrong, it'd be good to say it. And that is, I think, the apple of the dispute – we want to solve waiting times, but bureaucratic matters obviously are not solved and that is what I think is the problem in the coalition. Why did it happen to the government at the time, and why did Comrade Gantar say you were ripe to press charges? Then I don't know where these statements are from, but you're still sitting in the ministerial chair.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u94	The word has magic. Andrej Šircelj, prepare Mr Ivan Hršak and Mr Ivan Škodnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! In listening to these discussions, I think we are forgetting the essence of this interpolation and why this interpolation actually happened and who is the focus of attention in health care. In health care is the center of attention of the person, the patient. No strategy nor laws nor criteria nor any reform, etc., but man, patient. And every day, when a man waits one day too much, every day is actually a bad day and it means an alarm to the state. And second, of course, when I'm here today listening to these debates, public health is free of charge. To fly from another universe this service. Public health is paid by people, citizens and citizens. Every month from his salary. A certain percentage based on your salary. In fact, if I say so, they are in some way promoting future health services. That's the system we have. And look at the man. And when you talk about waiting periods and 49 thousand 469 people minus 61% – these are people, this is not statistics. If we're talking about one patient, we're talking about a person, if we're talking about two patients, we're talking about two people, if we're talking about three patients, we're talking about people, but if we're talking about 10,000 and thousands, you're talking about statistics. People aren't statistics, that's the first thing. And these people are paying for the public health system. And because this public health system works poorly and because it is the most responsible minister for health, it is also the interpretation. Very simple — because it does not work for the benefit of people, not because it works for the benefit of people. And all the insinuations, fantasies and imaginations of some of my colleagues and colleagues about how this interpolation wants to privatize the health system, how it wants to make economic activity See, these are nebulosis, this is stupid, these are fictions. [[…]] Interpellation of the Minister of Health is proposed here because of the people and because of the individual person who is extending his waiting period. And today there was a talk about it. Whether there is now a waiting time for some health care 760 days or 560 days; see, more than one day is too much because he pays. So here you have to pour yourself some pure wine if you're talking about a man. But if you're talking about statistics, laws and so on, then it's another matter. I personally have absolutely no interest in whether the Minister will propose or not to propose any law, but I am interested in how much health care for people will improve. Nor do these people care about what their health standards are, but they are interested in what kind of service they will actually receive. And they get an average service and these services are always worse. And if there's not enough money, let the Minister of Health say there's not enough money in the hospital, that there's not enough money in the hospital to propose measures for more money. That's what this is about. And if doctors and nurses are underpaid, the minister can't say, "Look, we have such a pay system. Yeah, well, he's in the government, so let's change the pay system. Let the government change something that will actually happen then, in order to increase the quality of these health services. The pay system isn't in another universe. Here it is, here and now. It's actually the way it is. That is why I do not really understand certain views, certain opinions that are actually going in this direction. And if we're talking about the concept and the obvious now, if you're talking about privatisation, it doesn't matter what concept you have. However, the criterion is health service. That's all. The sick person is not interested in the concept of health or the health strategy, he is interested in when he will be cured and the country and the government is responsible for this, it is his duty to provide health care in order to make this happen as soon as possible. That's all philosophy. However, in order for this to happen, of course, there must be order in health care and an organisation must be defined and the economy must be taken into account and all of this must be taken into account. Of course, things are perfectly clear who's responsible. Health managers can be responsible and, of course, a policy is responsible; if we have public health, in health care, in public institutions, in saints and so on, politics is in charge. Don't close your eyes or the politics of the Minister of Public Administration will confirm any candidate for anything. [[…]] And that's right, on my part, because it's public, and who else is going to do it. He can't hire a private person in a public office. So from that point of view, you know, there's so much talk today that I don't think it's going to get very far. Either way, this interpolation is going to work or not. But I don't see any new quality coming from this angle. At one of the first meetings of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in this mandate, the Minister said that health laws would be in place within six months. Yeah, we'll go take a look, no problem, or even if you said in one year. Here the coalition itself reminds you of how late you are. There are two parties to the coalition, Desus and the Social Democrats, who are not actively supporting your work. That is how I understood from the views of the groups of Members. However, because of some higher objectives, of course, they will do this by continuing to be Minister of Health; because of some higher objectives, such as, of course, the stability of the political system, such as not changing before the elections of the Minister and so on. But I would imagine doing my job, or actually doing a good job then, if two coalition parties actually say so to you – not the opposition, the opposition is speaking. So from this point of view, I think that in health care is too little or very little done for the patient, because that is 50 million to reduce waiting lines, and secondly, we have an increase in waiting lines from July to August 2017 – see, here is something wrong. I'm not going to go into this data right now, but here certain waiting types have increased, I don't know, for a rheumatological outpatient by 29.6%, as I understand, neurologically by 15%. Some have shrunk, so I won't say they just got bigger. For example, for ocular outpatients, it decreased by 11.7 and the urological outpatient, if I give these two cases. But how can you get an injection – I don't know how it works, you need to know – 50 million into the health system and then increase your waiting periods? And look, you can say 60% is wrong here because they didn't choose another doctor, if I believe you, but in this case, it's people and there's too many people who have increased their waiting time. And if some people think that people live longer, because it's a longer waiting period, I think you're fucking wrong. They're living less time. And excuses such as, I don't know, demographic data, demographics is what affects the health system So demographic data are known for 10 years in advance, or for 10 years in advance are known demographic data and the government and the ministry should take these data into account and, of course, plan and regulate, of course, the type of services and content of services paid by the Department of Health Insurance and the quantity of these services. [[...]] Because actually I think we're still here in some Soviet model when we say, "We're going to have so many heart surgeries every year, lungs, I don't know what." And then it happens that the patients are too many to pay. Look, this is a disaster in this system, at the expense of the patients! But once again, the patient has no interest in strategy, no interest in concepts, no interest in tactics, no interest in health criteria; he is interested in how many days he will be cured.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u96	Mr Ivan Hršak has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik and Mr Jan Mahnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, chairman. In my debate, I will focus on the problem in Zasavje, where I come from, and the attitude of the Minister to the problems that are now most pressing in Zasavje. That's three problems. One is regarding the provision of emergency medical care. It is known that Zasavje next to Brežice is the only one who does not have a reanimobile. The Regulation states that the rules apply to all inhabitants of Slovenia the same, in which case the area of Brežic and Zasavje is discriminated against. Despite the fact that they justified the fact that the reanimobile did not belong to Zasav because, after one analysis of almost 50%, I would say that these interventions in the field were not necessary in the emergency medical care of the doctor and therefore decided that we did not have this reanimobile. In Zasavje, of course, we do not agree with this logic because we believe that the inhabitants of Zasavje are not treated equally and we are disadvantaged. And when we don't have this doctor and the reanimobile, of course, it can lead to death on the ground. As a second problem, the Minister is well aware of the problem of specialists. [[…]] We know that in Zasavje, both in the General Hospital of Trbovlje and in other public health institutions, doctors are lacking. When I highlighted this problem that we are trying to solve through the old law, this is said to be the previous Law on Medical Service because the problem of Satisfaction is, as you are well aware, that Zasavje belongs to the Ljubljana health area and the specialists actually all go to UKC, no one wants to go to Trbovlje. Since the invitation to tender is of course for this region of Ljubljana, Zasavje falls out here. The way in which I proposed to the Minister was to try to solve this problem for Zasavje, so that the calls will be made by the Medical Chamber to be signed by statistical regions. This is the only way to get Zasavje out of the Ljubljana region so that we can provide the necessary specialists on this call. Well, the secretary just said that we won't be dealing with these problems in part. Then this amendment of the Medical Service Act came into the National Assembly and I must say that a new management of the Medical Chamber was also elected during this time, which was taken over by Zdenka Čebašek Travnik. There were also two doctors from Zasavje, Irena Manfredo and another doctor from Trbovlje General Hospital. We also have the Zasavska State Secretary, Dr. Yes Medved, who was the professional director at Trbovlje General Hospital. But I said to myself, but now we have the perfect conditions to sort this out somehow. Well, then it was a problem with Zdenko Chebašek Travnik that there was a complication about her salary, and then these two Zabašek closest associates on this team left her. And then, of course, it didn't go that way. But when we talked in the coalition, when I proposed or when the Desus Group proposed a solution in this new amendment to the Medical Services Act to solve this problem in order to restore the autonomy of decision-making to the directors of public health institutions — look at it, for example, the whole coalition agreed miraculously. You remember, Minister, don't you? All right, we said, we are all united – both SMC, SD and Desus – to sort this out. We said, "Okay. In one week, the next time we meet, we still need to talk to the management of the Medical Chamber.« In view of this discussion at the Medical Chamber, obviously the Medical Chamber – guidance of course – did not agree because this way the Medical Chamber would no longer run these calls. And this solution, which we agreed on in the entire coalition a week earlier, then, of course, fell into the water. Of course, this is now the solution that is now being proposed, which is said to be State-level calls, that is to say on a state-level network and for a well-known payer and for certain operators. And here we see this possibility that then, say, Zasavje will have these necessary personnel. I see the problem, however, that if there are two other criteria on this call, that is to say, they will be perfect cities and that this number of free will no longer be for Savlja, we can also stand up here. And of course I talked about this solution with the management of public health institutions through Zasavje, they said: “It’s a little better, but it’s not okay, given the previous situation.” So now we can hope that somehow at least one part of these needs will be able to be met through this call. Of course, we will see what the future will show. Well, the third problem is that of financing work centres and training centres for disabled workers. Here I got a whole bunch of data from people who work in this area and have warned me that this mode of funding is very inappropriate, untransparent and, of course, unfair. I'll give you an example. The Zagorje Protective Work Centre near Sava, which is for all three municipalities of Zasavska, is called Hrastnik, Trbovlje and Zagorje, receives an amount of 3.80 euros per user. The average value per user in Slovenia is around €15. Some protective work centres or disability training centres for the same scope of rights – I do not say, that is to say, are different – if comparable, they get ten times as many. Of course, that's unacceptable. But it's not just this term right now, Minister, we know it's been going on all along, and nothing's been done at this time. But for the last three years now you've been the minister, and I hope you'll handle these matters. But given that an agreement is concluded for each year on the amount of these funds; for example, for this year, some centres have been granted a raise, not a suspense. And now is the right time, now is September, when a new agreement will be made for next year to try to settle these matters. Because it is actually discriminatory for Zasavje to receive from some even ten times fewer funds. An example of this being impossible; if the user of the services at the Kamnik safety centre, where they receive ten times more resources for this user in this work centre, if he accidentally moves to Zasavje and will be at the Zagorje safety centre, the same will receive €4.80 instead of now – which is virtually impossible, because in practice it is possible. And they warned me that there are actually no criteria here – in fact, as for a home for the elderly and other institutions – that then determine what resources a person is entitled to. And that, I would say, is actually a matter for us to settle. I promise that I will engage on this matter, and we really need to change this, because this is actually impossible. And, Minister, I'm counting on you to do your part in this, too, that this injustice, which is happening in Zasavje, will be settled for the years to come and then for the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u98	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Mahnic and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister and everyone else is present! It's late in the hour, now you could say it's already a night shift, but I think I'm going to go on with some things, but first of all I'd like to add something to what Jani, my colleague, said today, and I think he's said a lot. He has said much in this sense that those who speak against the work of the current Minister of Health today are afraid that what is planned and planned by this government in this mandate will be achieved. I'll go back to those leeches when Mr Grims spoke; he's talking about the red leeches that are all around. And I know sometimes when I'm talking to the secretary, how many people there are who want to keep that piece of cake that you didn't have to work for, but they would continue. We must be aware that the health sector is a large basket of money, that it has, of course, left so far in those years, so this has accumulated and, of course, now some measures will have to be taken. But there's not a man who can fix it overnight. And all these measures, which the Minister is setting up with the Government, are long-term and will only take one year, two years, and we must, of course, all those who have worked wherever you have participated and wanted to make some changes, you know that you could not do them anywhere at once. [[…]] I'd say these leeches aren't just red, they're black. When I went to school, we met black people, and I think black ones are even worse than red ones. So here I think that all these leechers are being fought by the minister, because they don't like what the minister does to them. The secretary is very honest in her work. If only she had found a piece of cake, that any kind of money had moved away in any way, she would have been served very quickly without concern, and you could not find it. I hope that this work will continue and will, of course, complete much more. Today it was reported around the emergency centers. Of course, the previous governments have been preparing certain things, but the realization and completion of this in life, in the work that they have started to happen, that they are in motion, but this minister has done it, and of course this government has done it. It's the same with the second track. He was doing things, preparing himself in previous governments, but now that this government would want to make it happen, there is a lot of obstacles that wouldn't have happened, because if that happened – and I think that, I'm sure, force would be wrong for those who are opponents. I will now return to the waiting periods. Of course, these waiting periods were due to such or other work, but everyone was involved in this health system, which is the result of this, and they have been coming for a long time. But it wasn't a systemic solution. If systemic solutions were to be taken, measures would be taken, control would be, and probably would have come to some conclusions earlier, and things would have been much easier to manage and resolve. Of course, professional guidelines for individual areas have not been developed, but if they have been, they have not been followed, let alone implemented. The Health Insurance Office has also been an observer and has not been actively involved in the treatment of patients, although, of course, it also has in the supervision of physicians. The current state of play, the current action, is systemic. Of course, medical organizations are resisting this. Why are they resisting? You know, things are changing, or you're gonna have to work, or you're gonna waste money. Many times today it has also been said that the minister must give more money to the institutions. I would turn that river around; when we have hungry people, of course in the first phase, sometimes we have to give food and fish, and then we will have to teach them how to fish. All those involved in this system will have to work differently with that money. I'll tell you the truth, health care isn't as bad as they say. I also talk to other people, and I have a chance from abroad, and there's more to it than anyone else would have thought. So it's not as critical as they say it is. Of course, it could be even better. I agree, and I also advocate public health, because I want every citizen and citizen to be somehow given the same care, and in this public health care I think this is the only possible. He also spoke, and we are all contributing to this cash register, and it is only right that it should be distributed in this way among all. Of course, there will be a lot more to be done. Medical organizations have also been mentioned, such as changing the Medical Chamber; of course, things don't work as homogeneous as they should. The current project of waiting types, which is confirmed by the Government, is clear and will be implemented within a certain period of time if all operators stick to them. And here I also understand my colleague before me when he said that in different areas in Slovenia things are not going that way yet, but they are improving. It's normal that everything can't run so fast, but it's working on it. And with the hard work I see with the current Minister, I think she will succeed, so I must say that I support her in the current work and will support her until the end, and even if there is one more interpretation, I will support her. She's often told that she doesn't do enough for a child's heart surgery. You know, these centers have responsibility for leadership and the council of institutions, and there's no responsible minister here. Look, we have many worlds of institutions in Slovenia, including others, also in the field of education. When something goes wrong at a school, because they're not looking for responsibility with the minister, but with the principal and things are cleared up in the world of the institution. So I'd say these things are gonna have to be done differently. And if we all somehow accept this thing, of course, it won't be easy, because even those who don't fit it also pressure certain Members that things aren't good. [[…]] The Members themselves, I don't think they think so. So I'll have the Minister's interpretations tonight, even if it's 3:00 in the morning, I won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u100	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Get ready for Mr. Janko Weber and the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Madam Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! What we are witnessing today is some kind of political trade. Political trade between SMC on the one hand and SD on the other. The role of Desus is also circumstantial. What kind of political trade am I talking about? They now make it clear in the SMC: If you support the intervention against the Minister of Health, we will support possible interpretation against the Minister of Defence. During the summer and up until a few days ago, I heard from a very large SMC man: "Are you going to intercede against the Secretary of Defense? Let's put it in, no." Of course, because it was more than obvious about trade, so that it could then be blackmailed and bought, but all in due time, ladies and gentlemen. My personal opinion is that if the Minister needs 46 votes to confirm that he is a government, then it would be the only logical interpretation for me personally to see if the Minister still enjoys 46 votes of support. Not that the opposite side of the 46 votes has to rally the Minister to leave. That is my opinion, and if it were so that the Minister must at any time gather 46 votes to see if he still has a majority in Parliament, then the Minister would probably leave. Because we have the system so that the ministers are untouchable that then the interpretations are indeed at the end when the coalition unifies, even though we are previously witnessing various games, shopping, overplay, for the majority of citizens and citizens, at least the vote is annulled. However, it is right to evaluate the work and to hear what has been done in return, despite listening primarily to what will be done in advance — both in this interpretation and in the previous interpretation. I, like Mr Hršak, will give an example from my local environment. In this House, I have already pointed out, you know, that there was a big problem – some coalition MPs were also listening to this – when we had a paediatric problem in Poland and in Selska Valley. A pediatrician left overnight because the premises were no longer suitable for carrying out this activity. But if the rooms were no longer suitable overnight, it was Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc who went to amend the rules on the storage of vaccines. It is interesting that all the years before this was not the problem that the paediatric activity in all the clinics in the dislocations took place smoothly, and then the minister invented something and left us in the countryside without pediatricians. And thank God all the three mayors got married together and then we solved the matter through a concession, through a concessionist – a way to solve the health problems that the minister so often and also takes decisive action against. Let me point out the same case as I pointed out in the previous interpretation, these ugly concessionaires built a new health home in Gorenje village, Madam Minister, with their own money. The community didn't contribute anything. If this were public health, it would be the cost of the municipal budget. This is how the concessionaires paid for this; not the profit, but the new health care home in addition to the existing one. We can say that we have three doctors in the Poljanska Valley above the standard — up to 7,000,600 inhabitants. Of course, we are satisfied with this, but we have concessions, we have exact boundaries, we know who drinks and who pays. And that's why citizens are happy. Then talk through concessionaires who are trying to invest their own capital in that activity live See, maybe it's in some other environment, where in some city, but certainly in the countryside it doesn't hit the most. [[…]] At the time, you said that primary health care is not your concern that how it is with pediatricians is not your concern. I'm not going to go on a public network here, invitations and so on. But even then, you didn't admit it was up to you when we said it was because you changed the terms of the rules on how to store the vaccine. Only after we reinstated the infirmary could the matter continue to be normal. In short, Minister, how many times have we reported corruption – how many times have you, Madam Minister? I think last year or before last year, Prime Minister Miro Cerar said: “Will this country continue to be a mafia or will we go differently?” It's good to know what it's like today, whether we're a mob country or something. And how you contributed to this in order to do otherwise, in case it went well. I don't know if you were aware, I think it was sent when we were with the Defence Committee – but don't be afraid – I won't predict war unless Prime Minister Cerar interprets words like that or any of the coalition members, maybe the Vice-President of the National Assembly – at a visit to the 430 naval division, they expressed a desire to have an excellent hyperbaric chamber that could be marketed, which could also be used for commercial purposes, but they need the cooperation of the Ministry of Health. That's when we adopted this decision on the Defence Committee. Madam Minister, I would like to know how this decision is being implemented. What has the Ministry done, and does the Ministry use the hyperbaric chamber owned by the Navy Division of the Slovenian Army? In short, I'll support the interpolation. This will be my vote for those in the healthcare system who are trying to make this system better. What are the opinions, with the exception of paid articles, how to garden at home, how to bring herbs and tea to the President of the Government – I do not know what herbs you are giving him – I hope that you will also take some more serious measures to confuse corruption in health care and that instead of the initial articles, you will make sure that the articles, such as in the Finance Journal, which well analyzes the health system, especially on financial pay, are positive. And not because they're paid to be positive, but because things are actually moving in the right direction. If you go to see records and comparisons; there is a lot of similarity between the previous interpolation and this interpolation, but the indicator in this case is only one – that things have not changed for the better and that what is negative in the healthcare system is still amassing and that you do nothing in this area. And as much energy as has been invested in your positive image in the past weeks, I am even more confident that there is a group of people in this country – not patients or those who are on the patient side, but people who are in such a position or if we take the area of corruption away from their interests. [[…]] But you are called, Madam Minister, to serve citizens and citizens – those who need health care, not those who have enough money to afford not half an hour, an hour, two hours, but even buy an oxygen chamber from their own pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u102	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u103	I have a brief question for the Minister. She hasn't answered my question about Mr. Pozno. And before I go to coffee with you to explain to me about the orthopedic concessionaire. However, I have one question for you: how do you comment on the decision of the Ministry of Health in April 2016 in the process of determining the conditions for the exercise of health care? Decision: The name of the committee shall be Mag. Bernard Kociper, secretary. It's a signed secretary. Hot secretaries. How do you comment on that, Madam Secretary? And disagreement In fact, this document occurs somewhere with you, the secretaries are appointed to the commission, definitely, but to appoint yourself to the commission, to sign a decision, to serve yourself on the same day, Madam Minister, how do you answer that? [[…]] [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u104	Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare the mags. Marko Pogačnik and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u105	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Why did I decide to vote in favour of the Minister's discharge? For reasons that I have also justified in my initiatives and in the questions I have addressed to the Government. And one of the concrete initiatives I have given is that in Slovenia it is necessary to set up a public procurement agency for the whole state administration from one place and, of course, within this, all the procurements that public health institutions also have. The government's answer was that this was unnecessary. And in this explanation of why we need a public procurement agency, I also made it very clear that we have very serious problems in detecting corruption in public procurement in Slovenia, because in Slovenia we need to prove slander when we talk about corruption. All other countries that effectively address this problem do not need an idea; they have enough intention. And in fact, I expect – because it is also in the reply of the Minister or Government to the National Assembly, that the Ministry has zero tolerance for corruption – that there will be a procedure in the Government to change laws where there will be no need to prove an intention in corruption, but there will be enough intention. Let's just change that, and then I'll take this as an honest statement that zero tolerance for corruption. But on my initiative, when I took this initiative, the answer was that we don't need it. But that was a year ago. And it is corruption that is actually destroying not only health, but also the system of functioning of such a state administration, and to a large extent local self-governments, and these are problems that can be solved if we decide that there is sufficient intention. And in this context, of course, health care is of particular importance, for it is ultimately for people, for their health and for the serious consequences they may face if their health problems are not dealt with in a timely manner. And waiting species in Slovenia are one of the biggest problems people face. In addition to the poverty and hardship faced by some 300,000 people there, 230 thousand people have been waiting very long for health services. These are two evidences proving the situation of people in Slovenia, especially those who do not have the resources to provide and save this either abroad or at home with well-paid services. But these people are only 1%, and this percentage of the so-called fake elite in Slovenia actually lives on 99% of everyone else, because they pay inadequately higher health contributions – those with lower wages – depending on the percentage, on the salary itself than those with higher wages. And finally, even this fake elite within the health system, this 1% is the one that also causes us to lose. And if we don't solve this, then, of course, it's hard to talk about the fact that honesty is that we will provide a properly functioning health system that will allow free access to health care for all citizens. And see if in Switzerland the cost of a four-member family is lower per year than in Slovenia to gain access to health care without waiting types, then of course we have to ask ourselves how this cannot be achieved in Slovenia. But we pay more in Slovenia! The four-member family in Slovenia pays more than in Switzerland per year to provide health care. The four-member family in Switzerland pays 4 000 108 euros a year and in Slovenia, 5 000 620 euros. The difference is a thousand EUR 512. But in Switzerland there are no waiting periods, in Slovenia waiting periods are extended. Well, there's something really wrong. And if we also look at this information, that waiting for health care also means waiting for a longer hospital stock, it means that insurance companies pay more for the hospital stock than they should if the patient were treated in a timely manner. And this cost is calculated – every year 19 million euros! And this increase was by 9% in 2015. So 19 million euros is spent by a health insurance company simply because patients are not treated in time. If we include the cost of the economy — up to 30 days — we are also doing very much economic damage because people cannot do their job. Not only is this bad for economic society, but it is also for the employee himself, who therefore has even lower wages than he would have if he were able to work in the workplace. Therefore, if the health system does not work, the consequences are not only for the individual but also for the economy, with greater economic growth, with greater added value in Slovenia; indeed, only with these measures that need to be implemented in order to address this problem could actually come to Swiss level. And if the Health Insurance Office finds that it is necessary to provide some more than 100 million euros in Slovenia in order to eliminate waiting periods, is this such an insurmountable problem and amount? We've given banks over 5 billion, and we still don't know exactly what that calculation looked like today. For people who have to give 100 million, this is the collapse of the country. That's how we can listen. Although this intervention law, which we will discuss, is capable of providing as much as €136 million this year. But when we talk about reducing waiting periods, it is impossible to ensure that. And this 136 million - cut - shows that it will actually go 126 million to the University Clinical Center, so the other hospitals actually work well. And if the public procurement system had really been established for the whole country, there would not have been such cases as these vein resistors, where, thanks to the media, there has been a shift, and costs have been reduced, enormously, but first at the University Clinical Centre by 2 million and a half, but not by other hospitals, because there was simply no single system. And this is where the Ministry didn't play its part. And if only we could start eliminating this in time – today, if there were losses, these would be minimal and manageable, which I say could even be serviced by the institutions themselves. Of course, the University Clinical Center Ljubljana; 126 million, that is an amount that is actually uncontrollable. But how did that amount come to be? And here too, I would like to point out that, through my question of departure, I have warned that the selection of a director, the current director of the University Clinical Centre, has been unlawful. But even here there was no answer, where we would say, yes, we made a mistake, and the matter could be resolved, but under this direction, the loss increased enormously. And it would be very interesting to know what the judgments in the Administrative Court will be about those candidates who met all the conditions so that they could be chosen and complained about the choice. What compensation will be paid to those who have fulfilled all the conditions but have not been chosen? But it is the direct responsibility of the Minister to allow such a choice at all. Last but not least, the number of members in the world of the University Clinical Center – the majority is called the Government. So you have leverage to prevent a loss as high as 126 million euros, but that didn't happen. And in this interim period in 2015, the Institute of Health Insurance also proposed that the surplus it created in its 30 million-euro cash register in 2015 be earmarked to reduce waiting periods. The Ministry's proposal was that the main purpose of these measures was to increase the price of health services, not to reduce the waiting period as proposed by the insurance company. And last but not least, this is about insurance. And yes, this is where the legislation is clear. We have to cover the loss of the state institution from the state budget, not from the means of the insured. This use of funds was also actually illegal. This money is the money of the insurers who need to receive an adequate health care service for this and the insurance company has actually proposed a reduction in waiting periods. This is a fact that we cannot pass through and has also been publicly published, but simply disregarded. In addition to all these problems with the acquisition of material that is corrupt, I would say, the issues we face because we cannot solve them because of the above mentioned legal obstacles, because it is necessary to prove slander, of course, in waiting times it is also very important to allow for an up-to-date specialization to young doctors. And from the data available, we can also see that we are actually in the process of providing specialisation at the 1992 level. So for 25 years, virtually nothing has been done here, so that young doctors can get a specialization faster, so that they can also deal with patients more quickly and thus reduce waiting periods, and thus, not least, allow young experts to successfully develop their careers, which they have decided — for a very responsible profession, to help people. Finally, Zujf himself and these early retirement measures by experienced older doctors have, of course, helped us to have these waiting periods more than is actually necessary. But if this trend continues, that older people will actually leave and retire, and in the meantime there will be no means for young people to specialize in time, we will run into a situation where we have a huge void, a lack of doctors, even though we need them. And then we will – what? Again imported or brought from abroad, paid dearly, and the money we have invested in young people’s education will, of course, not be used. So, also, this process of specializing in young doctors is one that cannot depend on just how much money we will give for these specializations, and we cannot be at the level of 1992 if we find that we have a huge problem in waiting species. I reiterate: if it is possible to give 136 million because someone expects payment, because he has delivered something at an obvious price of two, three, four times higher than the ability to obtain it on the international market, then it is unreasonable that we do not feel this responsibility back to the people, to our own staff, to our own young doctors in order to provide more resources. These are measures that need to be implemented and can actually be implemented immediately, without some great science. They're simple. This amount is also 136 million; I would really like to see before the National Assembly decides on this, a list of all those contracts that will cover these 136 million, what this enormous money will go for. I wonder if these treaties also have an anti-corruption clause. For if they have it, then these contracts are null and void. If they don't have it, then again, this zero-tolerance ministry of corruption falls into question. These are the facts that I also wanted to point out within this procedure in order to begin to resolve. If we do not draw attention to all of this seriously enough in the National Assembly, obviously nothing will begin to be resolved. I hope that, even after today's debate, at least in this segment that I have pointed out, it will start to work actively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u106	The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik, prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Jožef Horvat. Here you go, Mr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u107	Yes, Madam President, thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the Minister is not present. I would like to start by reading some of the points that the Minister made at the hearing before she took up her mandate. In particular, she mentioned that without waiting types when medical care is needed. It highlighted the financial sustainability of the healthcare system. She pointed out that health inequalities need to be addressed. She stressed the need to provide sufficient resources in the public system for all Slovenians to have access to health services, but very wide and safe. At the end, however, she said, as her biggest challenge, to improve the management and management of public health institutions at all levels. She mentioned that she saw something moving around here and that her challenge would be to appoint competent people with managerial experience. This week, however, we were able to see that we were adopting an intervention law. The government has passed an intervention law, but this intervention law has not been passed due to natural disasters or natural disasters. In foreign countries, intervention laws are usually passed in the event of natural disasters, but an intervention law has been passed here to resolve public institutions, hospitals due to losses in 2016 amounting to 136 million. And this same minister, who has been in office for more than three years, I am convinced that she is responsible for this loss. Because this same minister mentioned at the hearing that the biggest challenge would be for her to manage these systems. And today, the distinguished Minister has repeatedly mentioned and talked about the system. Dear Minister, the interpellation is going against you, not against the system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Minister has not done her job. The work that he is doing is, in particular, at the expense of all those who benefit from health services. 136 million, I'm sure it's a big number. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia will also need to be rebalanced. Above all, it is not clear what this money is meant for. I've known the well-respected minister since before. It comes mainly from the financial sector and I find it funny to read their statements that this intervention law is being passed due to liquidity cramps. She mentioned it three times because of a liquidity cramp. Ladies and gentlemen, if the liquidity crisis is the problem of this 136 million, I would like to know when these hospitals will return 136 million money to the Slovenian budget. Liquidity spasm or loss is something else. Dear Minister, we should be clear about something in Slovenia once again. In particular, this left option very much emphasises how we have free health care in Slovenia. We don't. We pay for health care in Slovenia. Every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia pays for the health system. And every year, more than €2 billion is poured into the health treasury by employers and employees. More than €2 billion. And those who earn an average salary per month in Slovenia, he and the employer pay more than EUR 2 000 per year for health care services, for waiting types. And that's the problem. You are very fond of selling the story: Since we have a health system free of charge, how beautiful we are in Slovenia, as well as if there are few waiting types. They have to pay for the health system abroad. Your Honor, take a look at the payment sheet each month, how much money they have spent on the health system. I want to know where that money's going. And don't get me wrong. I am sure that the system is such and that the losses of hospitals are not due to employees – when it seems to me that they are doing their job well, while they are paid little – but that the system and the institutions are completely mismanaged and managed. And there's a problem in the organization itself. According to my behavior, I don't know if you have a doctor's appointment, you have it between 7:00 and 3:00. That means you have to take a leave of absence to take everything. Why can't these exams be done this afternoon? Why don't you just let some of the hospitals do the plus, the profit? I remember that, I also worked during our government in 2007 or 2008, when the Clinical Center made positive results. At the same time, the health insurance company increased the prices of services. Why is the system not marketed when we know that it is still quite empty and is also used for market purposes? And do not mix these stories — but publicly. I am sure that Austria is a very fine example where it is seen that public and private health care can be well complemented. Put your hand in each other's hands. But we have an incompetent minister, we have an incompetent Prime Minister of the Government, and the result cannot be different. I am sure that there are still a lot of reserves here and that the distinguished minister should accept her responsibility. And it is sad that not only is there no support for the opposition, but many of the coalition parties today have expressed dissatisfaction, but today the Minister will only receive support for the preservation of this coalition, regardless of the outcome and the state of the health system. And I would like to know if the distinguished minister can answer, what will be the result of this hospital and public institutions at the end of 2017? Will we have to re-admit an intervention law to recover losses in 2018? Will the Minister resolve any of these hospital managements that have made a loss? And what's the cause of these losses, or is that, would you say, someone already figured it out? Look, I am sure that the health system in Slovenia is collapsing, that from month to month, from year to year, and that the Minister is solely responsible, to the greatest extent. And I am convinced that the problem is only the organisation itself and the leadership, that it is to put incompetent people in leadership positions; those who are professionally qualified do not yet mean that they have leadership experience and that they can also be successful in leadership positions. I've looked at a few private institutions, in my previous job, hospitals in Austria and amazingly everything works. It works both in the private and private sectors. One part of this Parliament very much defends this public health care and praises it, but unfortunately in Slovenia we only have problems in public health. I've never heard of a problem, I don't know which private or even those who have concessions. And it is necessary to know that we also pay more than EUR 400 million to citizens and citizens of Slovenia out of pocket. More than EUR 400 million; this means that one system already exists. These numbers are worrying. And because I said, the intervention law in all these inputs we have – employers and employees are paying about €2 billion into the health register. Then we can read about overpayments in a variety of ways. I'm sure the problem is right here and here is the minister who's responsible. The Minister should make order and, above all, make it possible for these systems to work better and more effectively. I will only support the interpretation proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'm sure she's justified and she's doing, I'd say, a lot of damage in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u108	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Prepare Mr. Joseph Horvath and the Magi. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good evening, everyone! I read a very good record a few days ago to remind me that it is connected with Minister Koprivnikar, who once said: "The public sector has driven the development of every country." And here the author continues: “By this logic public health has driven the development of health, and we have an increasing number of people in health homes and hospitals.” Here is the point of this statement, and I add: It is even worse that they stand in your waiting lines – 50,000 of them – and worse that they must go to your privates. Now something about so-called free health care and, of course, when you kind of want to show public health as a free health care. My predecessors have already said something about it today. Someone who deserves a gross salary of €790 and €560 net, with respect, €560, gives EUR 105 per month for health care. This is your free health care. This person gives about a thousand 600 euros a year. And you say it's free. What's the worst? That this individual is now either waiting in the waiting line or what is left of him will, of course, take him to a private person to save his health. That's what we have today. And that's what we're talking about today. And that's why we're saying that the minister is unable to perform this function. She's not capable of performing. And now, Your Honor, some other information that speaks of the state of our health. These are OECD data. Mortality in Slovenia is higher than in other countries due to different, I don't know, strokes, high proportions of amputations in diabetics, worse five-year survival of patients with some cancers, high levels of mental illness, to which I will return. And the worst part is that we're human resources very much at large. We kind of have 2.6 doctors per thousand inhabitants. This, of course, means that doctors, on the other hand, are no longer able to do so and that is why burnout occurs. And what you're saying is that we're going to get new doctors. Ask yourself how many of them you're losing every day because of burnout. [[…]] Let me say that in Slovenia there is also a shorter life span for men for 5 years. That's the data, that's the results of your work. And so please don't say that everything in our system is good and that we talk like that. And what's the worst? That the OECD did not provide data on waiting periods. She didn't. You also did not provide data on the satisfaction of healthcare users with the healthcare system. And you didn't give that information. Previously it was said how much you've done in the field of modernisation, I don't know, you mentioned eOrder. And now let me tell you what the lady who turned to me said, because she said, "I'm going to throw up when I hear all this about what's going on." The lady ordered it on July 5th. She decided according to the waiting period for UKC Ljubljana. The answer was: You will be scheduled for October 5th. She was pleased with that. Two months, she said, I'll wait. On 20 August, Sir, she received a letter from her home that she would be on her turn in May or April of the following year, 2018. She waited two months to go to another hospital because she was seduced. Not seduced by a 14-day delay or, I don't know, a month's delay, but for almost nine months, respectable. And you're making a fool out of citizens and citizens! You've got to be kidding me. And now I'm going to tell you how much you make a fool of yourself. Today, your Prime Minister Miro Cerar welcomed Juncker's statement that the rule of law is very important in Europe and that it is not a choice, but a duty. Your Prime Minister, the Cerar Government, welcomed it. On the other hand, we have an interpolation today where the coalition will not support this interpolation, even though it knows that laws in this area are being violated. The Constitution is broken and the laws are broken. And now I'm going to tell you where they're all breaking. I'm going to expose mental health, not just in my head, but because it's becoming a big problem in this country. I asked the Minister in 2015, with respect to the indicators that almost 3% to 4% of the gross social product is given, according to estimates, generally due to mental illness – what we will do in this area, given that we still do not have a strategy that is in line with the law. You know what the Minister promised me: “The strategy is just before the present, and I promise you it will be adopted shortly.” 2015, on the basis of the law, I asked her about a strategy that is essential to make things better here. “The matter is just before the laborers and will see the light of the world.” She's confirmed it to me twice. Let me just say, in comparison, that when the Prime Minister of Britain — then Blair — found that they were giving more to mental health than to the military, he immediately took extraordinary measures, and this area was further strengthened. With us, however, it is promised that 2015 will be done, but nothing has been done. I also asked the Minister what is the very big issue in the field of mental health when it comes to children and adolescents, because we do not yet have a protected section for this population. We do not have a protected section; let me tell you that international conventions and conventions on children's rights are being violated here. You know what she said to me: “The matter is just before the present, the money provided, the matter will come to fruition.” 2015, respected! That's not what today is. No, Madam Secretary, don't move your head, I'll tell you now the case: and then move the 19-year-olds into the same rooms with the elderly! I'm not gonna go on with what's going on! You can laugh and these people can't defend themselves. And don't hesitate, it's your duty, and as secretary, you've done nothing in this area. Nothing! 2015! Today we are 2017 and the end of the year, and this will not see the light of the world. Not in this term. So don't say that the health system is all right, so don't tell the worker who's giving 1,600 euros that everything's fine because he's waiting in the waiting line because that's the way it is. No, it's not. That's because you want to. That's what you want, and ask yourself who's threatening this country. I believe that those who do not guarantee the basic right of people to health care. And that's for me, because for some, he's been destined for one day. God does not let any of us ever be treated like these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u110	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare themselves for the mag. Bojana Muršič and Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Madam Minister, I'm sure she's following us. Our only tool, the parliamentary tool is a spoken word, and I am pleased that we will make practical use of all this time we have announced for this very important debate today. It's finally about our greatest value, that's health. I do not gloat as an opposition Member on the fact that two coalition parties say they are not satisfied with the minister's work, but that they will support the Minister in spite of everything. Look, I'm really worried about this. Such policies, I am deeply concerned about politicians. We call them pragmatic, so you do as you are paid, literally pays, but you do not follow your political principles and your conscience, which would be good for people. So you're doing what's good for you, not what's right. And I just don't agree with this kind of policy. The Coalition Treaty – not to say that what I am making up, I will draw some thoughts from the materials that I have studied when I was preparing for this meeting – well, the agreement, better said, Chapter 4.26 – Health care; the coalition promises, promises to correct the existing health system in the light of the strengthening of public health, taking into account its financial sustainability, with a view to maintaining the rights of as full a compulsory health insurance as possible and a clearer separation of public and private health activities. The coalition promised. I propose that the following coalitions confirm that this treaty, the coalition contract, each time a coalition agreement in the National Assembly also confirms that each Member shall vote to seal the coalition contract. Because then, once in the second half, we see soloists who just give up and make promises of some other solutions to the citizens. This is a promise of 2 million Slovenian citizens for their greatest value, this is health. And also, it is very nice to read, I repeated twice on the Health Committee yesterday: Accessible, quality and effective health care will be the priority of this coalition. Your time is coming, your time is coming to an end, the end of this coalition, the end of this term, you no longer have time to realize what you wrote here. You don't. Maybe you're doing the same thing over and over again and you're expecting different results, but Einstein would say to you: I didn't say you were crazy, but if you're doing the same thing and you're expecting different results, that's the definition of Einstein's madness. And that you paint the nation, that with this intervention law that this national assembly will now adopt, that patients will have something of it — not to lie, not to lie for the second time, for the third time and for the hundredth time! Don't lie because they won't have anything. Patients or citizens would have something from an intervention law if they were to lower the rate of contribution because the net salary would be higher. We have heard about this before. And I wonder why in Slovenia we pay more for health care than in Switzerland. We pay more for health care than in Switzerland. And there's something else that bothers me. Some do not have or do not have clear basic concepts, basic definitions of what public health is. The public health of each country defines the financing of the health system, that is, the way money is collected, and the exercise of health activities from that money. And these two must be strongly connected. And why is there nothing in our health system that can, in fact, be unchangeable or unchangeable? It's fishing in the mud. That's the only answer. And also these proposed changes to health legislation that we are observing are, in fact, a manual on how to raise as much money as possible for the average citizen of Slovenia with as few health services as possible, and on the surface, any policy in power – in particular this – would still have monopolistic control over the collection and use of money for other purposes. For other purposes, this money is collected. I don't know why no one just wants to listen to eminent Slovenian doctors who have received very important positions at global clinics. You all know Professor Igor Gregorič, who is the leading cardio surgeon in Texas, Houston. This is a hospital with 150,000 employees. And he's the director of the new heart failure program. He has said several times in his contributions that Slovenia needs radical medical modernisation, reform. This is what the European Union is telling us. We are members of the European Union because the people at the referendum have decided to do so. That's what we decided. We have been listening to and reading these recommendations on the urgency of changing the health system for some time now. And for a while now, this government has been ignoring it. A few days ago, Mr. Ángel Guría was here. He gave us the book Economic Reviews of the Member States, including Slovenia. That's where you should read it. In the area of long-term care, nothing seems to be done in this mandate. We have fantastic problems with population ageing. And thank God that life's longer, even thanks to medicine, not so much the health system, more medicine. But we're just observing and ignoring such recommendations. I understand that Nova Slovenija was one year in the waiting line in front of the cabinet of the minister, where we asked the ministers to present our proposals for a change in the health system. I understand we've been waiting a year. We're just some opposition party and the minister probably doesn't have time to listen to us for half an hour. However, I do not understand that European recommendations and OECD recommendations are being ignored. And this Professor Igor Gregorich, I am proud of him. You know, I'm not a fan, I'm really not a fan if a doctor makes a million dollars a year in America. He deserves it, he doesn't steal it, he deserves it. Why? Because he's so good. [[advertising from the hall]] And also to what — not just one patient at the annual level, more patients — it also replaces a heart pump worth a few hundred thousand dollars, but it is not insured, it is not insured. We are having several debates because the matter is similar in fact in the school system. If we do not relax on these subsystems, such as education, health care, if we do not release private initiatives, including private capital, of course, our subsystems will fail, that is a fact. The treatment is getting more and more expensive. We won't be able to if we have fewer employees every day, which means that every day we raise less money for health care. And we in New Slovenia, of course, are also for public health, but also the private sector is part of public health. Why public? I'm underlining. Because it has to be public, if you want, and state control over the provision of services both in state hospitals and in a private clinic. There's got to be surveillance. And thank God we have people who will invest their money in walls and medical equipment. Thank God we have one. It's a big risk. I have already talked about a doctor in Prekmurje who has invested 600,000 euros, 600 euros, he has restored a castle, read a cellar, and now he has built one there, I call it a micro clinic, because the minister and I have already had a problem where, of course, there could be a family micro clinic – I swear on family farms, family businesses and family clinics if you want – and other doctors would come along and want to work there. The minister won't allow it, don't let it! Yeah, where's an even bigger guarantee than giving someone 600,000 of their own money? Of course, it's a loan he'll probably pay for another 20 years when he's retired if he waits for it. And here is the problem of reforming or modernizing our health system, which is not effective, and we have potentials, excellent doctors, nurses and so on. I bow to everyone here. The system, however, is a kind of forced jacket that does not allow for efficiency. I will vote in favour of the Minister's departure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u112	The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mrs Vojka Šergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Minister, where you're following us. For more than 13 hours, we have been hearing today's debate on the Minister's interpretation, but the red thread is almost the same for almost everyone. Today we assess the work of the Minister in a three-year term. We've heard a lot, but I think we'll hear a lot more in two hours. The health problems are definitely what I have already pointed out in my position or in the position of the Group of Members, but I must say that the findings we are making or which are given in this interpretation do not come from this mandate alone. Frequent exchanges of health ministers have had a negative impact on the adoption of the necessary legislative changes and simple changes in demographics have shown that this change is necessary, which unfortunately we have not seen in all these three years. Why were the ministers unsuccessful? I can't tell you this right now. Maybe they lacked persistence. Unfortunately, or fortunately, this insistence on this minister is not lacking, but I think the actions are diminishing. If I focus on a few points from the interpolation. Health corruption. As a member of the Investigative Commission on Vulnerable Restraints, I must say that this observation is more than obvious and justified, but the Minister has only a part of the responsibility in this corruption. The responsibility lies with the appointment of heads and boards of institutions. Leaderships shall issue decisions on the appointment of expert procurement commissions and the remaining responsibility shall be sought or sought at other branches of the Authority – the National Investigation Office, the Special Prosecutor's Office, the State Prosecutor's Office, and the Competition Agency. Where are all these organs? The Anti-Corruption Commission should also be involved in all these matters. I don't know if they prefer to deal with simple matters or things they don't know or they don't want or they shouldn't take under their own framework, but it's far from right. If corruption is to be eradicated, all institutions must be gathered and step forward. It is sad that the purchasing services do not comply with the legislation adopted in this national assembly and are in breach of the legislation. They even say that on the investigator, but we'll talk about it in the next session. They exceed the value of contracts, do not try to find as little prices for materials as possible. Of course, I am not saying that anything and in any way of obtaining a poorer quality should be involved. God forbid, not by any means. All I'm saying is that for the same material of the same manufacturer, one hospital buys at a significantly lower price than the other, and we are all in Slovenia together. Not to mention that such prices are valid in Slovenia and again in Europe others are even lower than in Slovenia. That's very worrying. As a result, the losses of public health institutions are recorded, and until public health institutions start acting as good managers, looking for possible solutions to obtain the same material from the same producer at the most favourable price, we will continue to swindle in this vicious circle and unfortunately invest in health care. We have to make an end of this, and so here is the appeal to the Minister to take appropriate measures as soon as possible to cut this Gordy knot. Leaderships must act economically, just as they do at home in their own household. However, I must mention that we have also heard from the investigator that some doctors dare to alienate public material and give it to or give it or even sell it to another doctor. I think all these competent institutions need to turn on all possible red lights here, and they need to investigate this and sanction it accordingly. The Minister, according to all we've heard, may have some authority over this matter. And let me continue with the extension of the waiting period. The waiting years are a cancer wound to today's health. And why are they being produced? Due to irregularities in the organisation of work, the unwillingness of those responsible for rapid and effective response. This reduces the confidence of the population and the population in health care. There is a need to act decisively in this regard as soon as possible. There is also increasing evidence of corruption, including in waiting lines, in overshopping. We've even heard that some pay to get into the waiting line first. And some here serve their own fat, I'll say, money. In everyday life, access to health care and quality and safety health care are primarily important. One of the serious problems and causes is that this public health service network, which was set up 15 years ago, is simply no longer sustainable and needs to be redesigned or modernised. It should explain clearly what is happening to our health system. Individuals enter a full or empty waiting room and enter our health system. The stakes are waiting; I cannot say that this is waiting in all public health institutions. There are also bright exceptions where waiting when you're scheduled for the appointment is not. But it all depends, of course, on good organization of work and leadership. It is also true in this place that waiting periods are an integral part of developed health systems. The waiting time and the number of people waiting for health services show access to health services. The efficiency of the system is a clavicle. Root changes are needed. However, the Law on Patient Rights, which we will adopt in the coming week, will not allow the waiting period to be reduced. The cost of the hospital stock will continue to increase, as when we have waiting periods, these people in the hospital stocks are both at the burden of the employer and of the health treasury. These data are frightening and measures are necessary. However, I agree that it is necessary for patients to act responsibly when reporting on deadlines as well as to make themselves known to them. A demographic picture must not be an excuse for us to increase our waiting age. It is only a reminder that we have done little in all these years on the health system and that legislation needs to be adapted to all these trends. I will also touch the National Institute for Public Health, which is in 2011 – more precisely 1. 3. — published for the first time information on the list pending from operators of the selected specific health service. 61 selected health services are included in this list and this waiting list and public publication should also be led by the end of the year. According to the new proposal, this data should no longer be available, as eTravel and eProcurement for a thousand 300 health services is being implemented. But will and when will this come to life? I therefore once again appeal at this point that this record is maintained in the future and a parallel system is maintained. I will not lose words about the eProcurement because there was much to be said; many residents and residents are turning to us, a policy that essentially does not hold up this order in this way. The phone could be ordered because they say, "Send the guide, eTip, then you'll get the appointment." I mean, it is, it really doesn't hold up and you just don't have to lose words here. Therefore, I think it is very important that the parallel system continues to be maintained. I just won't have time to talk about the losses of public health institutions, because I'm running out of time. With regard to responsibility in the drafting of legislation, anything else should be said, because we are too slow, we have not adopted a key Health and Health Insurance Act, there are many health problems [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u114	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Prepare to be Mrs. Vojka Shergan and Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye, everybody! What interesting debates we are hearing today about the efficiency and work of the Minister, including her transparency. In fact, the story of the previous interpolation repeats itself. First of all, I must say that I am very surprised at the position of the two coalition parliamentary groups, which, in the first interview, conditionally supported the Minister and gave her the condition of adopting a certain legislation which is not yet in place, but which the Minister referred to as a great success in her opening address, because she was to be accepted at the next meeting of the National Assembly. At the same time, as her great success and much of the work that was done, she also cited an additional intervention law that was supposed to save public institutions in health care before, I would say, “compromise”. If these are major successes, I'm surprised you're still supporting the secretary in the Desus and SD coalition. Also, your discussions, where you have been critical practically to all five of the mentioned readings that are in interpretation, show that you are not satisfied with its work. I must say that I myself am not satisfied and will support her resolution or interpolation. I must say that I am very disappointed that it has failed, given that it has been presented as some kind of personnel coming from this financial area. She used to work at the Ministry of Finance, even in insurance companies, she worked in this area. Perhaps all of us were somehow silently expecting that, given that he was not of a medical nature, he would have the opportunity and the joy and will to handle certain matters. However, we find that it has not been arranged and that it does not understand or understand this system at all times. I don't know how else to explain to myself her theory that we have public health, which is good, great and so on, and also her statement that many have waited too long in the waiting line because it wants to. I don't know if the Minister is making a fool of our patients who are in waiting lines, but I don't think she's worthy of the Minister or the Ministry. Maybe she was thinking about her Prime Minister, but she's not waiting in line because the patient is in the private sector, so you need to ask yourself a few questions about transparency and public health. The introduction stated that all these laws are of some great added value that will save the health system, but the Minister did not say or merely mention that we must accept them. Both the Patients' Rights Act and the Health Act have met with great resistance in the professional public, as well as committee discussions have shown that they do not have some support that is quite uniform. So it is also a question of whether these laws will be adopted or not, and it will also be difficult to boast. There has been a lot of talk about the intervention law that is supposed to solve these problems of corruption in health homes or to help reduce losses in health homes. However, we have already warned on the Committee that you have set up a system that will allow for even greater problems in decision-making in healthcare homes than in some rehabilitations. For you have placed in this context the six-member Sanitation Committees. If we were to take seriously some rehabilitation of some public health institutions, we would appoint a recovery director, one person who would have clear presences and, last but not least, responsibilities. Speaking of committees, it would be better if we wrote committees, and probably all people would know what you want to do with it. So we find it hard to believe that this minister will do anything in the future. In fact, SMC support is understandable, but both coalition parties in this regard are a little strange, even in the light of your debates you have had so far. All these laws, which will now be adopted, were adopted by the Minister, the Coalition and also by the Government's programme for the adoption of individual legislation in 2014, 2015, and the Minister's promise after the first interpretation was that this will also be prepared and adopted in 2016. We are now before the end of our term of office, and it is also questionable whether we will accept this at the next meeting or whether it will happen as a number of laws that you have passed in the last period, and at some stage of the hearing in the National Assembly you will also withdraw them. The Minister has practically not answered any of the questions raised to her, particularly by the proposer, and therefore it is difficult to continue the debate, because most of the things that are obvious are now being repeated and it is difficult to debate and to shed new light on some things if the ministry does not answer any of these questions. But it's a sign that the Ministry doesn't know what his job is. And these tasks, which the Minister has written down and for which she has also committed every time in the National Assembly or at the Home Committee or in plenary sessions, are simply not met. Whether he knows it or can't do it, it's more a matter of judging the one he put in this place. But given the situation we are witnessing, the position of Minister of Health is obviously even more important than the position of President of the Government. So I hope that, given that we are already in the next day, perhaps the early morning will still help you to reconsider and find that this is no longer possible to do – given that we are in the early hours of the morning, I wish you any better thought in making your decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u116	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Prepare Mr. Tomaž Lisec and Mr. Joza Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! I'd say that first. First you tell us every three months that we're going to fall and we're not going anywhere, then now you've been telling us there's been an election for a year, but we're still here. Now, first of all, I would like to explain some of the wrong interpretations concerning the 136 million that the intervention law is bringing in for the rehabilitation of hospitals. Of course, he is trying to present himself as if this government had decided to unduly invest in public health institutions. However, first and foremost, we need to be aware of the reasons for the poor health of hospitals today. This is not the responsibility of this government, but it is the result of many actions in the past and I will list some of them. For example, a multiple linear reduction in the prices of health services, resulting in an average loss of € 166 million by operators over the period 2009-2014. This was a measure taken by the former governments in order to ensure a balanced functioning of the health insurance company. [[…]] The second such measure was therefore that health insurance companies did not recognise all the costs incurred because of the limited resources available at the prices of health services. In spite of the release of certain austerity measures in the field of wages at national level, the cost of work remained an important part of the cost. That was about 171 million. An increase in rates was not taken into account by the health insurance company in the payment of services; when the value added tax increased from 8 % to 8,5 %, the revenue of the operators under this heading is estimated at around 13 million. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u118	A little peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u119	Health insurance in 2008-2016 for public hospitals [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u120	A little peace, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u121	has not paid services that have exceeded the contractually agreed framework with a total agreement of EUR 580 million. [[…]] On average, this amounts to €64 million at the annual level. Unpaid outstanding contributions to compulsory health insurance, which are at day 30. 6. 2017 amounted to 123 million, which affected the available revenues of the health insurance company. And if we add up all of these funds, practically between 2008 and 2017, a billion 700 funds have been lost, which would be earmarked for hospitals and services. In short, you see, today our Government is actually facing the consequences of long-standing mismanagement and governance, which no one has dealt with before us. Today, it is not even on the table that the financial situation should be rectified, but we have virtually no choice. You haven't actually given us any other choice with regard to the past action you've had. Without additional budgetary resources for the immediate financial recovery of public health institutions, the smooth implementation of the public health service would be jeopardised. The crisis has affected public health institutions to the extent that only the performance of the public service is at risk, as they are hoarded by the high accumulated expenditure on income from previous years, which is at 31. 12. 2016 in public hospitals amounted to €170 million. Without intervention measures, the liquidity situation of public hospitals would deteriorate further, which could jeopardise the necessary supply of medicines and medical devices. The poor liquidity situation and the high level of unpaid outstanding liabilities of public hospitals can also lead to an increase in the number of executions. The result would also be the inability to pay salaries to public officials, which of course we do not want, and the possible restriction of the provision of health services by operators, which would lead to an extension of waiting periods. The implementation of the law will maintain the smooth provision of public health services at secondary and tertiary level and thus ensure patient access to health services. You see, that's why we're adopting an intervention law to remedy this situation, because it's imperative that we also ensure that these deficits don't accumulate again in the future. However, not only does the law contain additional financial resources but it also provides for other measures, i.e. fuses, that funds will be used deliberately and that management and management will be optimized. As a result, the rehabilitation agencies that will oversee the implementation of this recovery programme will operate on the basis of the baselines and guidance of the recovery committee, which will guide and supervise the implementation of the rehabilitations. Therefore, in terms of good governance, this is a necessary decision and is the only one appropriate. Now a few more statistics; given how bad statistics are at this point in time before the colleague expressed how bad statistics are, however, I would say that, according to the statistics I have, 30% are less suicides – since 2006. Life expectancy has increased by 2.6 years. Ten years ago, five babies per thousand live births died, and today, only three passes, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u122	A representative of the proposer, Mrs Jelka Godec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u123	I ask my colleague from the SMC if she can tell me why, then, in all the bad things that have been in the past years, there have been some things that some public institutions have been able to do in a positive way. Why are some misleading positive, some negative? Let me explain because you're, I don't know, an economist. Yeah, I don't care if you don't have time! I'm sorry, come on. And one more thing, answer me this: From 2015 to 2016, hospitals created 330% more negative outcomes. 330 % more. Watch the door. So I'd like to ask, [[Laughing in the hall]] if you explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u124	Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u125	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Dear Minister, I hope you're well. Although I am a little bit less vocal, full of antibiotics, but still in a much better form than the Slovenian health system. I'll take two days, three days of antibiotics, some Lecadol, and I'll get away with it. But the Slovenian health system will probably not get away under this government, but it will probably sink, or those cancer cells that may have been set up in this health system in previous governments will eventually grow in the year before you. And with such a pace of destruction of Slovenian health care, whether it is public or private, if we just look at the time from the previous interpretation to the present, believe me, there will be no need for a third interpolation, since Slovenian health will no longer be needed. There will be only patients who will obviously be happy to exist, because there are also waiting types. Let me get started on this public and private. I have a feeling that two-thirds here have no idea what is public, what is private, what concessions are. Fortunately, I had a doctor on my executive board in the year – I think in 2010 – who is more than once, not only to me with coffee, but also to the public trying to explain that people throw everything in the same basket without connection or obviously intentionally. And what's even more perverse is that they throw the same thing into the same basket as those who consider themselves advocates of public health, while quietly taking advantage of the benefits of private or private health care. And here I agree with what my colleague Grims started earlier: a similar situation as in the field of education – full of mouths about the public, and in fact it is used privately. The next thing that's very interesting — and in fact, if the government were to do what it says to do it, it wouldn't be an interpolation. This is a matter that we listen to besides ethics and morality and the rule of law, I think the third sentence was what this government is going to do: Health is a priority, we're going to fix health, we're going to do everything, and so on. Let's take a look at the results after three years of this government, this minister. A living disaster. I don't even know where to start with specific information, but the fact is, obviously, no specific information in this government, this minister and some part of this coalition does not fall to fertile ground. Absolutely not. We've heard here before a recital, read, about how all the predecessors are guilty, and this government is saving. This government, for example, solves the financial situation of public institutions by raising 330% of the public institutions' poofs. This is really typical left-wing government of the state, public or whatever you say, property. And at the end of the day, it's a perverse thing to invent these institutions and say, "Here's the intervention law." And why is that so perverse? Since we are already at the extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly and at the emergency meetings of the Health Committee, we have been alerting somewhere else how this government's staff tsunami is destroying all of these ministers, and then we hear: No, the Minister has nothing to do with this. And I'm going to have to say specific personnel at Brežica General Hospital. It was a very solid board of the institution, various parties proposed representatives; you will not believe in Brežica Municipality, which applies to some hard SDS wing, was the President of the Council of Desus and did his job very well. He himself was surprised that he had been elected at all, but we all agreed that we need one solid gentleman with some foreknowledge both in the field of health, social and economics. And what happened under this government? Suddenly, the destruction power of the SMC comes from local areas. First, they cut off the President of the Board of the Institute, three more, four more members and members, replace them with SMC members and, of course, follow the logical second phase, the replacement of the Director. That's the human resources tsunami you don't recognize, and we spot it in the field. And, of course, SMC set up his principal to solve everything. And perhaps the lady had hoped for the first three months that she might do something. After six months, she resigned overnight because she saw that the milk she went into was too deep to help save her, and she saved only herself, and the health care home, and the general hospital of Brežica from too many open questions. Thus, it is right for you to rule, but for God's sake, after three years you could rule as responsible and not speak to governments since 2004 and any other government as to how it destroyed everything and you're saving it. And how do you solve this? In addition to perverse manning by throwing money bags into this health system. In 2015 we listened: With more money waiting rows will disappear. In 2016 we listened: With more money waiting types will disappear. New intervention law: There will be no more waiting species. But the numbers say the opposite. And if you don't believe me, dear Minister, I hope you've been listening to the recording of today's studio at 5 p.m., where the patient's Ombudsman said it wasn't an abnormally drastic extension of the waiting species, but that whoever says the extension isn't, obviously doesn't only know the alphabet, so they can't read, but they don't even know the numbers. And it happens: you're throwing money into health care, you're saving waiting lines, and the waiting lines are prolonging. Get to the field! Fortunately, we have something that this minister has not yet been able to destroy. Successful primary health care. Why did I say you couldn't destroy it? I myself was the citing and initiator of an emergency session, which took place one floor below when we were dealing with emergency medical care, where they were under some cover, how you work emergency centres, which are not your idea, you were just taking pictures at the openings and this work and you haven't even finished so let's go from one emergency centre to another, what's missing. [[...]] On the other hand, you wanted to destroy, literally, emergency medical care. Let's just look at Posavia; you cut off Krsko or you wanted to cut off overnight and give Sevnica in half, and within one year say, "No, no shifts, no weekends. Nice, it doesn't matter whether the kids have angina or older ladies break hips, nice in Brežice. However, with the help of health - care directors and with the help of many mayors, we have stopped this by common pressure. For the time being, at least it is a status quo, but it is the fact that all the mayors and directors of these health homes are asking themselves whether the Minister will hold back this primary level before the end of her term. Secondary level, as already said Waiting Species Problems, by funding across abnormal borders, which has no positive effect. [[…]] As I said at the outset, I was just in a health care facility today, and there I asked a few nurses and other medical staff, including doctors: How do you feel about this famous eProcurement and eRecept? Everywhere there was the answer: “We luckily have optics in Sevnica.” He invested in his own program, and more than 12,000 euros, they said, "We are on the fine." The question is, what's it like with health homes that don't have optics? Three nurses said: “We know that the system only works partially at the secondary level.” You won't believe it, just when I said what happened to the eTraveler, how it works, I heard my own doctor say: "Here, the system has gone again." And one gentleman waited two minutes before me because the doctor could not cancel the previous patient because he had not yet entered this famous solution, eRecept, what the gentleman was supposed to get from the pharmacy. It's already on the primary level. On the secondary, however, respected minister – how much did you invest in information education, the completion of health care institutions in order to carry out eProcurement, including eRecept? You're talking 90%. I really want to know when some general hospital director here or there will have the chance of being forced off by the Minister, to tell you how the system actually works. In short, Madam Secretary, while you're talking about the public, how you're defending him, you're literally destroying him. Do not leave concessionaires on the other hand to develop, but we probably all agree, at least on this side, that concessionaires are part of the public system. If you take all concessions tomorrow, which some have an intimate desire, believe me, but within one month, no other system called the health system will be public. While we listen to very positive practices from abroad about also private health care, which are also given not only by the richest, we have money, but also by those who serve the poorest, and by us, as colleague Anja said earlier, give the last 100 euros to be not on June 2018, but perhaps January 2017. I used to get a text from a colleague. An unfortunate life story, a stroke at 45 years of age. And they said to him, "March happened, and in September you'll come to the rescue, and we'll try to help you. This week he had a review, they said July 2018. That's it, your rescue system. Patients don't just die, stagger, hope for the hell out of it. No, but here we have a minister who says, "It's almost all great. The ordering system works. The patients are guilty of waiting in line and so on. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the SMC, please, head out of the sand! But I will conclude with words which I am primarily referring to SD and Desus. Janko Weber was the only one who said, "I'll do the interpolation." Of all the others, we listened: This is wrong, this is wrong, this is wrong, this is wrong. But only because of political survival will you be against interpolation. Ladies and gentlemen, we call it hypocrisy in our ends. And if you've chosen to do so, I hope you'll hear what you're supporting in the field tomorrow. You support a poor health system, including corruption, clientism, without giving the health system a chance to survive. And as long as this minister is here, God forbid another mandate, the medical system will be gone after this minister's departure. And to conclude. Yes, it's hard to get into the shoes of the Minister of Health. I can't wait for the superman to come forward, regardless of the government, to solve these cracks, these caves that this government is causing with this minister. Therefore, dear Minister, I would show them one finger in the middle of my hand, and say, "Thank you for your attention and good-bye!" and wash my hands. But you obviously have the pressure of the President of the Government, so don't be surprised if you're finally wearing your head on the ground, but some of the others are already washing their hands today, and some of them will be after the end of the term, if we didn't know anything and we didn't do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u126	Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and then we are going to the conclusion of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, we have already had some interpretations and I would like to ask you to teach the representatives of the Government and also your Members that interpellation is not hearing. During the hearing – this is when you fought to get the minister's mandate, you said what you would do. But when there's an interpolation on the agenda, are we talking about what you did or what you didn't do? They're talking about a person who's addressed by an interpolation. Here we have heard both from the Minister and from the coalition Members, the great majority, in particular what you have in mind and what is on the way and what has gotten in the way that you will accept by the end of this term, which is terribly short. And all that happened in this debate is simply a simple waste of time and money after all. You have received concrete insights in the interpretation of our views, both on behalf of the proposer and of the parliamentary group, you have received additional arguments, additional questions. And if the minister and the coalition are unable to answer these questions, then you're dealing with the future. But, Madam Minister, I doubt you'll be running for Minister for the next term. I seriously doubt it. That's one. The second is that, in fact, such an approach by the Government and the coalition is not surprising. The weak Prime Minister of the Government is afraid that anything will be replaced by him on his government team without any agreement. That's typical of weak prime ministers. And, after all, for frightened Members, the opportunism that you have brought here today is actually a natural phenomenon. You're afraid something's going to end too quickly. And that is why, even though you may have listed even more mistakes than we have in the interpretation, in the debates, more bad, weak points of the Minister, you will vote against the interpretation. It's a typical opportunistic pattern. No matter what happens in the country or with the country, it doesn't matter what happens to the system, it's two or three months that you still have to survive on the functions you perform. It's opportunism. And to expect Members of Parliament, from the Government, from ministers to do anything serious, if they do so, then this is a barren hope. And what you're selling to the Slovenian public is a complete bluff. This is also why you act like one investigative commission. For example, in an investigative commission investigating the purchase of vein support — similar conduct. More or less, it is absent or headless in the sand. And thank God they had at least the chairman of the commission who actually took a bite into this project and found out what she had found. So, it's a huge overpayment of medical supplies for stents, cardiac resistors, ventricles. But a similar story is in all other health-care positions, in the acquisition of materials, in the acquisition of drugs, in the acquisition of equipment, in, I don't know. And so on. There's probably nothing in the health system that's overpaid for a few times, except the salaries of employees, nurses and doctors. It's not a thing. And those who say you are seriously involved in clearing up corruption, I ask very simply. A number of buyers of both clinical centres were interviewed on the Board of Inquiry. It was said what the prices were. Doctors who practice domestic and foreign practices spoke. They said the prices were at home and there. It was found that these claims were true. Now I ask, how many buyers or how many of those commercialists in both clinics have been replaced, suspended, dismissed, put into action on the basis of the findings of the commission of inquiry so far? The President of the Council of the Clinic Centre shall be a representative of the Ministry. This is a person who is directly under the command of the Minister. Has this person in the UKC requested any of the UKC management or management? All these people are still in their places, doing all the work they've done so far. And everyone's doing it the way they've done it. And the basic obvious or the first insight in interpolation is corruption. So, Minister, what you have done specifically in this field after all these findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which has not yet adopted this interim report, is why the President of the Commission cannot do anything on behalf of the Commission, but I hope that this interim report will be adopted within the next three weeks. But I'm asking you because you're familiar with all these things, what exactly did you do? Who did you cancel? Who did you suspend? Who did you put in the process? Who did you charge, I don't know, the cost or the payment of the money you spent, the public money and so on? None of this happened. None of this has happened. Colleagues, especially some who have you full of the mouth of public health, have talked about many things. First of all, we have to clear up: we pay money for public health care for natural persons and perhaps for economic companies. This is said to be money for the functioning of ZZZS cash and health system is paid out of the pockets of citizens. This money is supported, if I say domestically, this money is maintained, a day in a common fund called an insurance company, and from there it's spent for the purposes of people, for the needs of people. So I don't know, some people obviously see public health from somewhere else, but they don't know where it starts. Public health is also a concessionaire, after all, because they are implementing a programme that is only granted on the basis of such or other measures. As a rule, these concessionaires are effective – more than large systems – because they are interested in doing as many services as possible, because they are normally paid for services and in some other way in the system, especially in these large systems. And there was a lot of evidence, including how former Minister Bručan awarded these concessions. Legally, according to the legislation in force at the time. None of those concessions which were granted were withdrawn in subsequent mandates and could have been found not to have been granted legally. It was then that the regime was in force, and such a legal framework was made. And if I'm not wrong, they weren't 50, they were 30, and so on. These passwords can work out for a long time, but that's the way it is. The legislation then changed further – this matter, namely the granting of concessions. We also distributed them at local levels, concessions, including mayors, or consented to concessions for delivery, I will say, services at the primary level. That's how it was. There were no readings. The services were carried out and so on in all these places where we had health institutions. I think the problem is that you're either trying to prove something or you're trying to say you're doing something. When we put in the first interpolation because there was no time – and from hearing confirmation of the mandate and government confirmations until the first interpolation – nothing happened in the health field, we put in an interpolation. Logically, what should the opposition do if the coalition doesn't see that it doesn't work? And that's when the Minister and her Prime Minister of the Government took advantage of this coalition and said that in December 2016 everything would be on the table. Was it? If I recall Mr. Gantar, he said when that deadline came to get you something that's not yet a draft. And then time went well forward, until our next interpolation. In the meantime, nothing significant has happened, except what the colleagues said earlier about the emergency centres – the deterioration, for the countryside, the 100 per cent situation and conditions deteriorated. And that part left a bit behind. And what's happened so far? If I didn't get this interpolation, I'm sure this negotiation on patients' rights, but I don't know what you've got going on right now, it wouldn't be happening. And here too, I must say, Desus acted extremely opportunistic; first against, blocking procedures, and then every week a slightly softer position, and finally these laws, which no one fits, against which they are all, will be adopted. And then we'll be wondering where the problems are and why the problems are. The second such weight is the intervention law, which is now in the process. If there were no interpolation, I'm sure there wouldn't be a law. And it's just sand in your eyes that something is trying to do and save public health institutions, especially UKC, one and the other. That's just what it's done for. The fundamental problems, Madam Minister, which should be solved in health care, are not. Until you arrive in health care at material costs of purchases and other things, supplies, investments and so on at some normal European prices, but not four times, until then every euro is thrown into health, wasted, will not achieve its purpose. And the prime minister's job is to clean up the system. To put costs at a European comparable level. As long as it's not there, we can't fix health care because we don't know what we're doing. If the veins are four times too expensive and the hips are four times too expensive and I don't know which bones are three times too expensive and so on, it means that money is for other purposes, not for human health, not for operations, not for employees' wages. But money gets picked up somewhere, it's loaded somewhere. Some — those who are involved — are well - served, but here you are concerned about whether you will raise the rate of contribution and the intervention law. Those who — and perhaps some — are economists, financiers, should probably be the first to ask for it to be done at the Ministry of Health, as well as at all other ministries. That is also why the second track is three times too expensive, and that is why highways were too expensive because it was not done and it was tolerated all these bad practices of different lobbying that needed money to run the system, to excite the climate, and to raise some people to humiliate or demean others through various media. That's the key problem. And until the Minister is capable, she won't do anything in this area, she can't do anything. Because it's all one translation, one bluff, one haircut and so on. The persons you brought into the healthcare system – one at the UKC, one at the UKC, one at the hospital – are brought there by choice of minister. By choice of Minister and Coalition. No person has come to the world of the institution or anywhere by choice of the opposition. Not one! Those who were were advised. And if that's how you do it, then no crisis is to blame. The crisis ended a long time ago. You've already raised your wages twice because there's no more crisis. And the hole is growing. It's getting bigger. At the time of the crisis, when there was an apparent decline in the prices of health services, the deficit was either a deficit or a loss or anything in public health institutions is significantly lower than it is now when everything is booming. And the minister doesn't know the reasons, that's the worst. He doesn't know why the loss is growing. He doesn't know. If I had known, I would have acted. I'd do a program, clean things up, and so on. But because he doesn't know whether he doesn't want to, or he can't, or he can't, or he can't, or he can't, or he can't, or he can't, or he can't. And that's why other coalition parties behave so demeaningly. That's why. Because they participate in one way or another in the common system; perhaps not here, but in some other part. And because so much money is stolen through overpayments in health care from this system, it is necessary to raise the rate of contribution, wages are lower and waiting periods are longer. Because if you spend three times what you need on material for surgery, it means that 10, 20, 30, 50 percent of operations will be less because they deserve those in the health care chain to UKC. And there you saw exactly in this case how these loops run; who are the owners of these companies that supply, whose media they sponsor, whose media owners are that they can do it. You know all that. And you've known this for a while, probably more substantially than we who've only learned it with an investigative committee. But don't do anything. Don't do anything. In this opening address, Mrs Kustec Lipicer has taken on a great deal of criticism at the expense of the opposition and the past periods. Look at you! Here you are, you have everything in your hands, in a way a two-thirds majority with Mr Trčko and a company that is also for public health, which means that they are for public spending private money and so on. That's how it is. It's simple. And you're involved and those who want to warn you about it are attacking instead of resisting it. [[advertising from the hall]] Here, Madam Minister, I will support the proposal for a discharge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u128	We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which the Minister of Health and the representative of the Interpellation Applicant will be given the floor. Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Since I don't have much time left, I'd like to answer a few more questions, by the way. Regarding pedopsychiatrics; yes, for the first time in 25 years in Slovenia we will open separate premises, the investment at the Psychiatric Clinic in Ljubljana for these children ends. I agree that this is a violation of the Convention. The Health Council has approved the programme, the money will be provided by means of Annex 1 to the 2017 general agreement, so that this problem will also be resolved. However, I think that in my opening remarks and even in my replies, I have answered many times all your concerns, your uncomplaintable accusations, which have been repeated sadly throughout the afternoon and evening. For this reason, allow me, honourable Members and Members, citizens and citizens, who at this early morning listen to this discussion about the Slovenian health system; if anything, today's debate has shown that health is the value that actually affects all of us. Let this be in any condition or situation at any time; either when we have to take care of our own health, the health of our child, the family, the parents, the partner. And every time we get sick, we're worried. But let's be honest with ourselves and with all the self-sacrificing health workers in Slovenia, that we are finally satisfied with health care and rarely disappointed. There are individual cases where patients, of course, may also be disappointed. But in most cases, they are satisfied or very pleased, as polls have shown by the work. And for this reason, allow me to offer this early morning sincere thanks to all the health workers for their efforts and for their sacrifices for the benefit of all of us. However, so that I do not remain grateful and because I have been told throughout this whole debate that nothing has been done for patients in this three-year term, allow me to list at least some of the most important contributions or benefits that result from our mandate. First of all, we've made sure that young doctors of their careers don't start at the employment agency, just like they've been before, but they'll be like [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u131	secondary students and at the same time helped to address the lack of physicians. [[…]] Furthermore, we have made sure that the system of awarding concessions is regulated and transparent, so that it will simply not be possible to grant them according to our people's wishes and acquaintances, but we will distribute them according to the needs of our people. We will also make sure that today the 10 most modern emergency centres distributed throughout Slovenia; that in Ljubljana next month we will open additional rooms for ambulances and first aid waiting rooms – after so many years, because you have all talked about how unsustainable the situation is on the IPP – and that, of course, we will continue to build this so-called DTS until the final stage, with the surgical halls. And that and I have taken care of it and made every effort to ensure that money is also provided in the budget. We have made sure that the introduction of eHealth saves unnecessary pathways and valuable time for patients and doctors. We have ensured that hospitals settle years of outstanding liabilities and ensure, including with additional financial resources, that system solutions raise the prices of health services so that hospitals can successfully carry out their mission. On purpose in this closing word, I do not want or list shorts of laws and consecutive articles, but very specific, tangible results that we have made. However, you have a very detailed list of what we have done on more than 15 pages — from legislation and other measures. Many times you raise the question of where health reform is. Today, I can say that all the measures I have been talking about today make up the necessary package of changes; that this is not a single law, a single amendment to the law, but are concrete results, daily improvements. And that's the right one if you want, reform or change in health care. Therefore, I can also thank all my colleagues at the Ministry of Health, colleagues in the Government, as well as you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, who have worked hard, [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u132	A little peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u133	with many constructive proposals and, above all, with clear confidence and support, helped to implement and adopt legislation. [[…]] I will also need your support for the last of the key commitments, this is the adoption of the Health Care and Health Insurance Act, mentioned by many. By means of this law, we will provide sustainable and sustainable sources of funding for our public, equally accessible health care. It must never happen again or happen that in the event of a new crisis, health care, which is so vulnerable, will come into the situation and pay such a high price. It has lost more than billions of euros. That is why we need intervention law today. We will build robust, solid foundations, a different funding structure, so that health care will no longer be vulnerable. Let me be clear once again – Slovenian health care must remain accessible, fair and solidarity. You have committed me to this too, Members, by adopting Resolution 2016-2025 for a society of health. This represents the foundations that are not nostalgicly socialist, as the interpellationary proponents tell me, but are a reflection on the quality of our health and system today and tomorrow. In relation to the health system, the progress of individual companies is measured. We can clearly see this if we're monitoring Trump's attempted decommissioning of Obama's Health Care. Today, I am sure, and I have been able to see in this debate that these same battles that may seem amusing to us beyond the Atlantic are taking place with us, here and now. This is exactly the battle we're fighting at this hour. From how you define yourself – not perhaps until my interpretation, but until the last package of health laws and measures that we have prepared at the Ministry of Health – will in fact depend on where and how we will move on. With your recent support for the amendment on boards and with government understanding and courage in the rehabilitation of hospitals, I know that we are enough allies on this path. For the benefit and health of all our citizens and citizens. For the society of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u134	Ms Jelka Godec, representative of the proposed interpretation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u135	Dear Minister, your hearing was in 2014 and today we are listening to the same as in 2014: We will be a battle, I don't know, over the sea, with sails, I don't know what. And interpellation, of course, is the flooding of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Flooding is based on the following matters, facts. Minister Kolar Celarc does not respond to our comments, to the comments of the coalition and, of course, to the proposals. The Health and Health Insurance Act still does not exist, it does not know what the financial situation of our health care will be, and we will not accept this in our mandate. There are no changes in the year since the previous interpolation. There is no long-term care law, we don't know what a basket of rights is, we don't know what kind of supplementary insurance it's gonna be. So how much will citizens pay for health insurance? The agony in our health system is deepening, and so is the intervention law. We're putting out the fire, but the system's problems remain. Where are the standards and norms in Slovenian health care? There are no reform measures, there are no real priorities and just before the workers, so five minutes before the start of the meeting, ad hoc solutions are being communicated. Madam Minister, our interpretation is based on these floods. But these are not my words, nor the words of my colleagues, but my colleague Jurša in the position of the Desus Group of Ambassadors. So these are things that are being revealed to you, which are exactly the same as ours, but which Mr Jurša has said. Our interpretation is based on five points: co-responsibility to do nothing in the area of health corruption, responsibility to prolong the agony at the Paediatric Clinic, ineffective resolution of the waiting age problem, co-responsibility to poor public institutions and, of course, legislation that is not in accordance with the Constitution and the European order. Madam Minister, ever since you took over the Ministry of Health, health has never been in such bad shape, poor financial condition, and the first examinations have never been followed by as many people as today – 200 000 people have been waiting for a first review for an unacceptable period. And you're talking about emergency centers. Madam Minister, then tell us where the emergency centre Ptuj, which you have promised the entire time of your mandate, will also be located in the budget for this emergency centre, which, of course, is not yet available today, nor do I think of the foundation stone. You will be awarding concessions on the basis of the needs of the population and not overnight. How will you determine your needs, Madam Minister? You didn't answer that either, if you don't have a public network. The coalition also notes that there is no public network, there are no norms and standards, so this remains an open or unanswered question. You say there were no cases of corruption in your mandate. Madam Minister, then, when did the case of Smiljić happen in the UKC? Skipping waiting periods by bribing doctors. When was the decision on the procedure for determining the conditions for carrying out the health activity under which the secretary was signed, named in this group, signed and served? The secretary who soon left the Ministry and also followed her, Mrs Tušarjeva, who opposed such decisions. You have not replied to the case of Mr Požun, which – once again I can read – appears in various sacred institutions co-created at the Ministry of Health against payment, of course, the laws which then give the State Council opinions on them, and of course these are binding ones working on the SMC expert committee. So there's no corruption here either, but maybe it's a conflict of interest. So, Madam Minister, your mandate is full of such matters; not to list them all, because you may still feel embarrassed. Next thing. The Constitution states in Article 51: “Everyone has the right to health care under the conditions laid down in the law.” The law provides that, according to certain instructions, a person should be required to be examined within a certain period of time. Or did he not have human rights violated when he was given a date of five months instead of three months, and then called him from the hospital and said, "Look, it won't take five months, but in a year. So, none of your horrendous group of lawyers — and even the President of the Government — is a constitutional lawyer or knows the law — will answer whether or not it is a violation of human rights here. We wrote the interpolation in five points. After all this work you've done, I have to say that I've gained more than five points. We are seeing you continue the agony of waiting types and long waiting days in health due to the inability to adopt rules and timely measures to shorten them. You promise to develop a public network and standards and standards that are still missing. You have incorrectly introduced eProcurement, eTravelers, which today, Madam Minister, do not work. And your statements, including on social networks, that they operate at 90 percent again, it's not 100%. [[…]] Those services that are not yet included are therefore not working, but those that are involved with major errors. And don't say that the eProcurement works because I can start to list you again what this eProcurement is – still paper. We are looking at the unsolvable problem of funding the staff and, in general, the methodology of operation of the emergency centres, the inability to negotiate and coordinate within the coalition, as coalition colleagues have told you today. Support for inadequate and incompetent management of public health institutions is then evident. You, Minister, have written a protocol for members of the Worlds Department. You are responsible if the members of the boards of the institution are incompetent or incompetent. You are responsible if the directors of public institutions are acting in the direction of harming public funds. And it is you who are responsible for the increase in losses in UKC Ljubljana from 6 to 100 million, Madam Minister. You have appointed Mr. Kopač, you have staffed at UKC Maribor and other hospitals. So, your support for inadequate, incompetent management of public health institutions and, of course, failure to act in increasing losses only indicates that you do not really know what is happening in healthcare. Then inability to coordinate with colleagues within the government. Madam Minister, I wonder if the other ministers in the government may already know where or who will have to give something from their department for 136 million euros that you will devote to health care or only to those public hospitals that have come up with this debt? So, do the other ministers already know which area to go from; this will go from school to infrastructure? Yeah, it's probably funny because the money won't fall out of the sky, and you'll probably have to coordinate. You haven't answered my question about whether it's illegal state aid or what should this decision happen. Who will cover these costs, Madam Minister, because they will not only be 136 million? Of course, we also see you in granting this 136 million inadequate procedure. In fact, the recovery committees that you have created are designed so that within these committees those people who have also created losses – directors of public institutions, management bodies are defined and so on. So, where is the transparency here that the recovery committee is going to be the one that really works the right way? Of course we're reading to you, I don't think it's the only permanent change in staff at the Ministry. Two state secretaries left you, then the director of the Directorate of Health, heads of the cabinets and so on. So it's a constant exchange within the Ministry, but as your advisors, you've invited people who are actually retired, and you're paying them on land contracts. Not much money, I'll say. But those who probably wanted to do well with you obviously left. Reasons, you and them know, but we're not going to be talking about rumors right now. Well, you've been abandoned by a number of coworkers. But you took the ones you're paying for now. Of course, Mr Požun's client colleague, a retired associate, Mr Keber, Rogelj, and so on. It is still an unregulated field of urology in the General Hospital Izola, anesthesiology in Maribor, children's heart surgery in Ljubljana. Examples of splenic veins, say Mr Zimmermann and so on. The increase in self-paid health services is also evident from the breakdown of public health care. In fact, by weakening public health, which makes you sick with your mouth full, at the same time the part of the self-paid has also been strengthened, and people – of course those who can – are using it because they simply do not endure these waiting periods. Financial burden on the pension fund [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u136	A little peace, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u137	We didn't talk about it much, but it's also one of your weaknesses. You visited hospitals and promised me no change. You visited Topolšica Hospital, brought the money. And that's all. At the same time, you wanted to connect this hospital to Celje Hospital, which also works negatively, but of course in a way, very quickly, quietly, without, again, substantive, financial, human resources orientations. No one knew what was going to happen, and, in fact, on the board, somehow the matter stopped. That's when you said you'd prepare the guidelines. As I know, you have not answered today here in this room the question of colleague Škobernet whether you have prepared all the grounds for joining Topolšica to Celje and for other reorganisations. We also tell you that there is a lack of coordination of key proposals for legislation with the Medical Chamber, which by law must be involved in the drafting of legislation, and you have not made this possible for them many times. You coordinated with the representatives of Fides, signed an agreement between the coalition partners and the Ministry of Public Administration, said then that there would be no financial consequences, but it turned out to be 44 million a year, in two years 88 million. And where will you find the money, Madam Secretary, for that? In the intervention law you are adopting following an emergency procedure, which you might know about these losses earlier, given that you said today that the losses are not from your mandate, that the losses were created from 2009 to 2014. And when you came to the Ministry, if you knew about these numbers that you mentioned today, then the rehabilitation programs of Slovenian hospitals could be created, say, in a year, let us give you, that is 2015. 2017 – On a quick intervention law, without a basis in the balance, so we do not know whether the balance will be adopted, we do not know where the money will be taken, who will have to give up or who will have to get 136 million together. You are deceiving public health reform, which, of course, is not. You say that several laws have been passed; two are listed, and the following are said: “And other laws that have not come to the Members of the Assembly.” Madam Minister, do you realize what statements you make? Also statements in terms of, I will repeat again, today from your opening part: "Public health is good. A lot of people wait too long because that's what they want." So it's the patients' fault they're waiting. Of course, those who express their wish do not say, but most want to get to the hearing as soon as possible. Madam Secretary, this is your second, I'll say, such a statement. Last time you said, "But you know, even hospitals close in Italy." And that's when you let the citizens know that we can't go back to the second, because right now we're going to close the hospital or something. Today you're saying it's the patients' fault. Others say: The Family Doctors Union is to blame because it cooperates with us and produces long waiting lines; as many travel guides as possible so that I can discuss something with my colleagues in the National Assembly. So, such statements definitely give the citizens a signal that there is no real team at this ministry that the head of this ministry can't think at all, at least not in the direction of the patients, which you have repeatedly voiced. Inadequate funding for research and development in the field of health; we have not talked about this, but also this, Minister, is very, very limping. The next thing, however, is my colleagues' statements in Parliament that the Minister is working badly, but we will support her, but at the same time everyone is saying something else. More money has been given to health care, you admit to the minister, you commend her; she has given her more money, but at the same time there are greater losses in our public health, there are greater waiting periods, there is more chaos in our health system. So, no matter how much money you put in the health system – as long as Milojka Kolar Celarc is sharing money without a foundation, in the intervention law, so long will the losses increase in the health system, so long will it not be for waiting periods, so long will there be an untransparent one-time extra program to reduce waiting periods. And to all those who say: We are patients, the minister is working badly, of course we want to improve, we are giving her a chance, because right now it is not good for the minister to be suspended, we are not giving support to the minister, but we are giving support to the President of the Government, and I am now asking that part of the coalition that you have today very heavily burdened the Minister with your statements, just one short question before your vote: Who are we saving today? Patients or the president of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u138	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Nobody. I'm closing the debate on Aha, yet [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] All right, then sign in. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u139	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I know my colleagues are already tired and it's late, but since we've been listening to some sort of pre-election campaign of SDS for the past 15 hours, I think we can hear another voice. For democracy, as they imagine it, is seen as a one-party totalitarian system in which they have power. Why? It is precisely because whenever a person discusses and lists details they do not like, they jump into the air and listen to the debate only when a member of the SDS discusses. In short, the reactions and all the attacks and non-observance of different opinions are standing here. And under the cover of shortening waiting types, they want to introduce even more privatisation. Under the cover of the venous cord investigators, they want to discredit those other media that are not owned by them. And it is those who are, in fact, financially financed by a foreign country, specifically Hungary and companies associated with Orbán. In short, it is also important to note the systematic manipulation of waiting periods and hospital losses. Because SDS causes a problem first, and then we hear here after 15, 20 hours how they are the only saviors in the country. Unfortunately, some citizens even fall for this manipulation. A classic example of this is, say, another track. The route currently being criticised by the SDS has been adopted by the Janšev government in 2005. And in the second Janšev government 2011 and 2012 [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Colleagues from SDS, I listened to you calmly. Can you listen? You're saying we're in democracy, and on your behalf too, there's a democratic party. So, listen to us, too. In short, we could change the route, but you didn't. When we intertwined Minister Gaspersich, you did not support us, nor did you criticize the second track. Now we have you as great saviors and a referendum. When we proposed setting up a public company that would reduce the cost of purchasing, why are health costs also high, and why is corruption? [[…]] It's the middlemen. But you're afraid of the public. Personally, it's the only salvation. And when we proposed a public company that procures materials directly from producers, of course you did not support us, because commissions are very welcome, especially when you are making a policy. Then it's similar to losing hospitals. The main reason is the austerity measures taken by Pahorje and other Yangshe government. In particular: you flat-rated all prices of health services and the result is, the patients had lower incomes and the costs could not be reduced because the salaries of doctors have increased. In short, commercial insurance companies have lower costs because they paid less for health services. Among other things, Janšev's government has passed the cost of specialisations from the ZZZ budget, and in this way has further reduced the total resources for health in Slovenia, as we know, are already as low. As far as the reduction of waiting lines is concerned – the SDS was most opposed to measures to increase the number of doctors in the public system. Of course, the concessions are. In short, we are critical to the work of the Minister, especially at the point, because medical hemps still cannot get our patients on prescription, home-made, at the point that we do not yet have restrictions on transmatures in food and, of course, at the point that thousands of citizens do not have basic or additional health insurance. These are problems that should be dealt with as a matter of priority. However, public and all available health care must not be a range for different interests, for political overplay, but there must be something that we must maintain as a matter of priority. For he that deals with the health of men is by no means a friend of men. And so, of course, we will not support the interpolation, but we will abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u140	The word is Mrs. Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u141	I must say that I am not tired; I have tried for 15 hours to listen to all Members, quite calmly if I can only, but when they hear such nebulos as we are now, it is a little difficult to be serious and sober to think. Not just a colleague of Violet's, we've heard before that the SDS is a destroyer of the state of Slovenia, not that it isn't. Well, it's a good thing we have someone or someone to blame. If we are not to blame for the long waiting periods, we are to blame for the bad weather, we are to blame for the fact that, I don't know, the bus goes off the road: mainly, it's Janš's government, not that it's not. I don't know if it's really a late hour or an early hour, anyway, it's interesting for you to tell the ministers that you can't get a hemp. I'd rather expect you to read to her that she didn't cut the amphibians. That's what you'd expect. Hemp, hemp, well, it's a good time. [[…]] But colleague Kordish said that the minister did not cut off, did not make a distinction between public and private health, which I fully agree with, but you today about cannabis, so I don't think it's a major problem that hemp doesn't get, but it's more a major problem how much money is spent on overpayment of material, how much money is spent in health care because there are no systemic solutions. [[…]] And look, you're saying we're guilty of losing all public institutions. Not all of them. One of them is doing a good job, but they're gonna get hit now. But if you make a loss and you're rewarded, you get extra money, let's keep working. And once it was said, public institutions aren't for making a profit. But are they for making a loss? Because if you make a profit, then you go back inside, but if you make a loss and you get new fresh money from the state, you're rewarded, you're not responsible for anything, nobody calls you responsible. I mean, you even get a reward, maybe if there's another job and so on. That's the question, Mrs Violeta; hemp, O.K., it's out there. On a priority scale, I'd say there's not gonna be a list right now, but I've said so many things before. [[…]] But these are problems that money goes to public institutions that make a loss, directors are rewarded and not called to account. I think it's one of the problems that the problem is that waiting periods are increasing. And if you're looking at graphs that are now published by those who are dealing with it seriously – it's like that up there by 2013 and then jump up. Such statements that we are discrediting on the Commission of Inquiry are the only media that, I do not know, are not under our influence if the media were under our influence, Madam Minister, there would now not be so many SMC Members here, but there would be SDS here now. [[...]] Because the media created this party and the media brought them to Parliament. And if they have to, they'll be new. And so the only medium you think is the Youth; I will not comment, I say, because I am on the commission of inquiry, we will continue to do so. And I do not know what pains you this Youth; I have already told Mr Kordiš that its implementation in Parliament is reading articles from Youth because they are literally the same. But as I say, I'm not getting into this. And it pains us that we don't want good public health because there's so many commissions and we know who they're going to be. Yeah, I don't know who they're going to, let me know who's picking up the fees. If you were looking at an investigator — I don't know if you did — you could figure out who the commissions were going to. You will then read the interim report, given that representation – I believe – is very low on the parliamentary investigative committee due to the employment of your Members. I'm asking you to read the report and see where these commissions went. So far from being here, but I'm not going to defend myself, because it's pointless to respond to things like this. [[…]] So I think, my colleague Violet, that despite this hour, there are really priorities in health care somewhere else that you just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u142	There's no replica. I conclude with the debate on interpolation and move on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Interpellators propose to the assembly to adopt the following decision following the discussion: "The National Assembly shall, on the basis of the interpretation tabled, untrustworthy Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc." In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, non-trust will be expressed to the Minister if the majority of all Members and Members vote for it is 46 or more. If an untrustworthy woman is voted on, the Minister shall be deemed to have been dismissed. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, chairman! We won't support this interpolation in Levica. They may have invested it in the SDS, but they wrote it in the medical-insurance lobby. Why do they have a full mandate for something like this? Because the lady minister stepped on their tail. Unfortunately, in our view, this tail has gone too far and too far, which is part of the problem, which is why we cannot support the Minister in her defense. Yeah, she's got concession restrictions, and she's narrowed them down. Yes, he wants to regulate the area of physicians of amphibians and distinguish both public and private, but in such a way that the existing situation is only legalized. Commercial insurance companies are still making €60 million a year from citizens' and citizens' pockets, instead of ending up in the Slovenian public health system and so on. In short, the practice of legalised corruption in the form of concessions, often unjustified concessions, in the form of physicians of amphibians and in the form of supplementary health insurance in our healthcare system continues to persist. And even though the legislation on the table will be adopted, unfortunately, these frauds will go on to a great extent. And as socialists, we certainly are not satisfied with the Minister in her chosen strategy. It went into negotiations with the medical and insurance lobby, and once it was shown that this lobby was not prepared to accept any compromises, that it was prepared from shadows and behind to write interpretations one by one, it did not sharpen its strategy and did not change. If you can't take some healthy compromises from the minister's position to move at least some things forward, then you're in a position to go for anything or nothing. And that's what the secretary should do, but she's not. Maybe, maybe things will change until the election as a result of this interpretation. But we've been listening for 15 hours to the majority insolence. Maybe they'll catch someone.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u144	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. An explanation in your own name? Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't know why you're barking. Yeah, well, I listened to you here for 12 hours, and I didn't mean to talk, but Mr. Tank didn't run out. I was a little on the F.B., so I had to finish it. I listened to this: after 40 years the Pancrates will have a concert at the crime scene and the Pancrates once sang "Lublana is bulana". Today we should sing: The National Assembly is sick. Because of the sick National Assembly for 25 years, we have as much health crap as we have, my dear gentlemen. And we're the legislative body. We should adopt appropriate laws. And with us, we call it executive power. But when you come to power, you step into everyone's head and rule and feudalize Slovenia. And then we have this in the way of the band that Mr Cerar played – Alan Ford, the Grunfa way. That's as far as we can go. And that's not funny! I don't know why you're snarling here. I mean, if I cut the sound off, and all I'd do is show a picture of most of this interpolation, someone would think it was a baboon. But the baboons had, as Lorenzo put it well, and they wrote in the Evening, a society organized by mind. Unfortunately, we don't have any problems, and that's why we have problems that we actually have. And after all, the seriousness of the interpolation, I'm from Maribor, and I've been knocking here, and you've all died in the middle of a football game. So much for your seriousness. And the citizens could finally ask themselves a few questions, but these assholes trust this temple of democracy, or maybe they need someone else who's more healthy in the “beep”. Thank you. But I'm not going to support this interpretation because of what Micah said. However, I already said at the beginning of my term: the Minister or the Minister for this section with a narrower team should be a protected person. And then perhaps it will be possible to resolve this mafia. Nor would it be bad for family members to examine their burdens properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u146	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u147	Yes, thank you for your word, Madam President. What the predecessor said and the predecessor before him, I sign. Above all, I am in pain, colleagues and colleagues – making fun of patients who ask for medicines. You think hemp is something that smokes and deals in corners. Sorry, in October 2016, the National Assembly, the Health Committee, decided to offer patients controlled medicines to allow those who produce this in Slovenia to grow them, to pay taxes and to make things disappear from the black market and from the market, which is illegal, so as not to stigmatise patients who are looking for a solution. Comrade Jelka Godec, you've come to your senses. You hit me very badly, because it's not a minor topic. Every patient, every person sees their problem as the biggest and believe me, one sees it as the biggest. So give, at least, enough to listen to the problems to others. Of course I won't support the interpretation. Because of the things the Minister has not done, I should, of course, not be able to vote against the interpretation and I will be absolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u148	An explanation on my own behalf, Mr. Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Repeating the words of colleagues and colleagues here today for and against interpretation would be inappropriate at this time. But in seven hours we will continue to be at the Council of Ministers' Council of the State, the second part of the report of the KPK Commission, this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The Commission to prevent corruption in its 2016 state assessment on page 4 of the work of the Ministry of Health speaks about the incidence of systemic corruption, as we see in Slovenia mainly in the grip of public procurement. In doing so, it describes that the Ministry of Health has no intention of regulating this area at all, or that the competent national authorities have failed to address this problem for health care. It further says that it currently shows that it is a combination of both, which we often witness in Slovenia when we talk about effective action against – that is, corruption in the health system in particular. Only the Commission's activities in the field of the study of the transport routes of medicines, medical and technical devices and the disclosure of the fundamental legality of this trade in Slovenia have revealed real problems, and thus obstacles to the realisation of centralisation and the informationisation of public procurement in public health. They then discuss the following report on the involvement of intermediaries between manufacturers and health institutions in Slovenia as buyers, market segmentation, exclusive producer representatives, requirements of doctors and so on. They conclude this report by not having the right approach by the Ministry of Health or not wanting to approach this issue. So, dear colleagues and colleagues, the KPK report speaks of the necessity to stop, we can say, the work of the Minister to put, by the end of this term, someone who will be competent, who will be able to hit the table and who will not be part of the problem, but will be part of the solution. That's why I'm going to support the intervention against the Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-09-13-SDZ7-Izredna-47.ana.u150	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the Minister of Health has not been voted in. This concludes this item on the agenda, and I find that there is simply no help for certain medical problems and phenomena here. But without fear, they are not transferable, even though they are in direct transmission, but insults are first a matter of personal culture and perception. Therefore, by facilitating and contributing to our and general mental health, I conclude this meeting.
