ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Bojana Muršič, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 14:00 on, Eva Irgl, Ludmila Novak from 16.30 on, Violeta Tomić from 14-17 on, Simona Kustec Lipicer from 11:00 on, Bojan Podkrodšek, Anže Logar, Matthew Tonin, Jernej Vrtovec from 16.30 on, Franc Laj, Luka Mesec, Miha Kordiš from 14-17 on, Franz Breznik, Janko Weber from 14:00 on, Franz Trček to 11:00, Simon Zajc from 14-17 on, and Marjan Dolinšek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law on the justice world. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today's the law of the Council of Justice is before you. I am pleased to present this path with no extra letter or short number. It is not a novelty, it is not a law that replaces the previous law on the Council of Justice, it is a first system of legislation designed to fully regulate the position, competence and role of the Council of Justice as an important builder of the justice system in the Republic of Slovenia, crucial both for ensuring the independence of judges and the judiciary as a whole, and for promoting accountability, efficiency and quality of the judiciary. According to the Constitution, the Council of Justice is an independent and independent State authority with special status, which does not belong to any of the three branches of government. Justice often simplifies to the fact that it is a key judicial officer. By means of a new law within the framework of constitutional provisions defining the composition of the Council of Justice, the law before you gives the Council of Justice the full powers and at the same time the responsibility to monitor the judge from his appointment or earlier choice, assessment of his work, setting time standards for work, advancements and disciplinary infringements. With the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service or the Law on Courts, we have also established a Commission on Ethics and Integrity more detailed and transparent criteria and criteria for the selection of judges more than a year ago. Under the law, the Council of Justice is becoming a self-sustaining budgetary user. Judicial protection shall be provided for in respect of decisions taken by it, and greater transparency of its work shall be provided through the recording of meetings, explanations and reporting to the National Assembly. And important and well-known here in the National Assembly, the relationship between the four key actors in relation to the judiciary, these are the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Justice and the National Assembly, not always well-ordered and often emerges among them. The law also addresses these problems and provides for a clearer relationship between brake and balance. An important novelty is the regulation of disciplinary proceedings against judges who, following a proposal from the judiciary law, move to the Council of Justice as a body composed not only of judges but also of external legal experts. We therefore propose that the powers of appointment and discharge of disciplinary bodies within the framework of the Supreme Court of Justice be transferred to the Council of Justice, that the seat of disciplinary bodies be transferred from the Supreme Court to the Council of Justice, that the composition and structure of disciplinary bodies be changed so that, instead of a two-stage, only a more effective one-stage disciplinary procedure and that judicial protection may be exercised in an administrative dispute in which the Supreme Court will decide. In terms of the law before you, we have achieved an enviable degree of coordination between key stakeholders in professional and inter-sectoral coordination. In short, I believe that there is a law before you that is not sufficient, but one of the important preconditions for strengthening the rule of law in the field of the functioning of the judiciary. I call on the honourable Legislative Assembly to support the law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u3	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! The call to draft the law on the Council of Justice has had a beard for quite some time. Since its establishment, virtually everything has been exposed to the shortcomings of the current regime. The Council of Justice is, in fact, the only body established by the Constitution that does not have its own special law. For example, we have the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on the Information Commissioner, the Law on the Court of Auditors and so on. The scope of action of the Council of Justice, which is an independent and independent body, is regulated by the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. Such an arrangement in itself gives the sense that it is an organ that belongs to the judicial branch of power and, of course, cannot give a sense of independence and independence. The need for a special body stems from a number of guidelines and recommendations from the European Network of Judicial Councils at the Council of Europe and from the Consultative Council of European Judges, as well as from the Council of Europe. These documents mainly call for the creation of an independent body which, on the one hand, protects the independence of individual judges and of the judiciary as a whole and, on the other hand, promotes accountability, efficiency and quality of the judiciary. Of course, only a special body cannot meet these requirements on its own. The quality of the judiciary does not depend solely on the specific authority, but it is also affected by a number of other factors. Everything from the number of judges, the resources we spend on the functioning of the judiciary, the support staff, the opportunities for quality training and education, not least from the quality of the legislation we adopt in the National Assembly. And here we have more and more problems, as we are increasingly witnessing poorly prepared and flawed proposals that the coalition has supported despite many criticisms and warnings without question. In recent times, there have also been a number of proposals where it is almost clear that their content is contrary to the Constitution. This is also not very encouraging for the country considered legal and for the judicial system that is supposed to try to improve it. Some other important dilemmas remain open, which certainly affect public confidence in the judiciary. I am thinking, above all, of the increasingly less opportunities that an individual has in proceedings where the country is opposed to him. Especially when we're talking about the most vulnerable groups. The amount of fees, access to a lawyer, notary and opportunities for effective protection of their rights are the things that have the most impact on public opinion. On the basis of these factors, people often make the impression that we are a country of law or that we are not. And that fact, it seems to us that the Minister of Justice is not well aware. However, without addressing these key problems, changes in the functioning of the Council of Justice and other reforms prepared by the Ministry will be difficult to improve the current situation and increase overall confidence in justice. We hope that we will soon see some solution that will go this way. As for the very law of the Council of Justice, as has already been said, we agree that the Council of Justice needs its separate law. We are also positive in view of the recent legislative proposals adopted by the Government, and the fact that we have not received a bunch of warnings and objections from the profession is surprising. We hope this isn't just some quiet before the storm comes. However, since we have recently had very poor experience with the Government and its claim that the law is all right, that it is harmonised and that there is no ambiguity, but that there are constitutionally controversial provisions, we will wait for the opinion of the National Legislative and Legal Service before we finally speak of possible support. It should be stressed, however, that it is very difficult to talk about the importance of the rule of law at this time. During a period when a set of repressive laws that interferes with the rights of individuals are introduced by electrical paralysers and mass control, and some individuals are even denied their fundamental human rights guaranteed both by the Constitution and by the international convention, it is very, very difficult to believe that in this government it is a matter of strengthening the rule of law and strengthening ethical and moral standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u5	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u6	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law is intended to aim at an integrated regulation of the status of the Council of Justice and the strengthening of its autonomy. In New Slovenia we note that the new law is nothing more than a merger of the applicable provisions of the Law on Judicial Service and the Law on Courts into a new law. Upgrades are some additions, but they do not bring any added value, but above all do not improve the Court's reputation and quality. The basic task of the Council of Justice is to propose candidates for election to the judicial function provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and its composition remains unchanged. In our view, the fundamental problem of the Slovenian judiciary is in the composition of the Council of Justice. 11 members, five of whom are members of university professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers, are elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic and six of them are elected by judges who hold a permanent judicial office. So most of it is up to the judges themselves. In view of the fact that the National Assembly of Judges practically always appoints judges in a very formal way, since the content of the appointments cannot be integrated without risking the political clarity of such decisions, the judges actually appoint themselves through the proposed function in the Council of Justice. Since the care for the independence and independence of the courts and judges and for ensuring the quality of their work and the public reputation of the judiciary is exactly the function of the Council of Justice, it will be necessary to amend its composition by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia so that the judges will no longer have a majority in it. The best legal experts will have to be drawn to the Council of Justice. Therefore, today's law will not necessarily bring about the necessary improvements that would help bring about better justice and greater confidence. Major changes that require constitutional changes and changes that will not only be at the declaration level but also at the implementation level will ensure the accountability of judicial officials. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that responsibility in the highest functions in all judicial bodies is the most important. The decision of the Council of Justice must be transparent and accessible to the public. Their decisions must be clearly and in detail explained. Each member of the Council of Justice shall bear full responsibility for each vote in each particular case. Indeed, some of this proposal is the law, but too little to speak of greater efficiency and reputation. Interestingly, the Council of Justice, in accordance with its powers of the National Assembly, gives opinions on the laws governing the organisation of the judicial system and the administration of justice and the position, rights and duties of judges and judicial staff. This work is done by the Council of Justice with its left hand, and its opinion always reads: “The Council of Justice has decided at its meeting that there are no comments to the proposal for a law.” Really "weight" and "very substantive" opinion. Well, the Council of Justice has made an effort to propose today's law, which, of course, speaks of his work. This is also the case only until the second paragraph of Article 57, which provides that the Rules of Procedure, which governs the level of the meeting and the reimbursement of costs, must obtain the prior consent of the Minister of Finance. It's sad. The Council of Justice has important powers, but the law does not establish mechanisms of responsibility for their decision-making. The proposal provides that the Council of Justice shall, inter alia, adopt criteria or criteria for the selection of candidates for a judicial post and criteria for the quality of the work of judges for the assessment of the judicial service. However, it does not specify how these criteria are checked and again leaves open the door to the Council of Justice to decide, from case to case, how it will verify compliance with these criteria. We would expect the law itself to sum up the solutions that are known in this area by the laws of comparable European countries, which include mandatory written tests of knowledge, psychological tests, group interviews and so on. Each allocated right must also bring responsibility with it, otherwise we are only opening the door further to new corruption risks. In Novi Slovenija we will not support the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u7	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u8	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a proposal for a law that is still needed in our system, because, as you know, I have long advocated for the reputation of the judiciary and the reputation of the individual judge. That's the common goal. If you look at my career, I was the representative of the judiciary in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption – precisely because I have already previously and further advocated that judges, in addition to their regular work, obtain further education, further train and eliminate corruption risks. This is evidenced by many of my contributions, conferences for both judges and prosecutors. And it is very wrong that in the largest coalition party they try to distort my statements that I declare that judges are harmful, particularly some. Or perhaps those who declare it feel that way about the judges. And it is right to show what is wrong with the judiciary and to show the right solutions. As you know, on a committee of which I am also a member, and in the Committee on Justice, I am always committed to putting forward criteria that are verifiable and that, on the basis of these criteria, a judge is appointed to a new position or to advance. These criteria exist, according to the judges there is everything, they measure the number of judgments and the quality of judgments. And I have always advocated that among the candidates we choose the one that fits best, and I have warned that corruption risks often occur, because those who do not have these criteria are progressing, and these are some descriptive qualitative criteria. That is why I expect the person responsible for this to do this transparently. That is why I have always advocated that, at the time of the appointment of the Judge, the Council should attach the criteria of the candidate chosen and the criteria of the candidates not selected. I have also advocated limiting the number of judges, as this increases the reputation of judges, to the number needed that is comparable to those of developed countries. These are the main comments on the proposal, and these are the main comments why we need to stand up for the reputation of the court. The proposal does not follow some very important matters, namely that judges as such are very difficult to expose and draw attention to errors. So it's a system of protection for so-called whistleblowers. Who's gonna protect the judges? We know that in the National Assembly, when there is a debate, Members can take a stand for mistakes and draw attention to them. Public hearings on the Commissions and on the Committees shall allow the public to find out what the main errors are in the Court of Justice. In view of everything, we see that this is a declaratory good purpose, but implementation and the proposal have not taken sufficient account of the expertise and those individual judges who are willing to expose themselves. Therefore, we will not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u9	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u10	Dear Members and Members and representatives of the Government, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I will follow the advice of colleague Anja Bah Žibert, who warned me not to talk about my position and not to discuss it. Here I will now tell the SMC's position, and then I will reply to my respectable colleague Dobovšk. From the point of view of the organisation of state authority in the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of Justice is a sui generis body which cannot be classified in either of the three branches of government. The provisions governing the position and powers of the Council of Justice, already constitutionally defined institutions in our system, are fragmented among several laws, found both in the Law on Courts and in the Law on Judicial Service. The proposed law, which we are considering today, aims at a comprehensive, clear and robust regulation of the organisation of the functioning and competence of the Council of Justice, not a comprehensive reform of the Council of Justice. The text of the proposal is now drafted specifically, but in the relevant places still sufficiently significantly open, as required by the dynamics of the area in question. At the modern centre, we welcome the new report of the Council of Justice to the National Assembly, and we also consider it appropriate to place a greater emphasis on the public of the work of the Council of Justice, which will be reflected in its published decisions. We also think it makes sense that the President and the Vice-President of the Council, instead of being elected for a term of office for one year, will be elected for a period of three years, ensuring that the work of that body is more continuous. The matter under consideration combines most of the existing rules in the Council of Justice into a homogeneous whole and builds them up with some fundamental conceptual and substantive solutions. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party assess that the proposed solutions are aimed at strengthening the role and position of the Council of Justice and that the purpose of certain new powers in the field of judicial administration and the transfer of powers, in particular with regard to disciplinary proceedings against judges, is to contribute to increasing general confidence in justice. For all these reasons, we will support the proposal for a law on the Council of Justice in the Modern Centre. Let me also point out that this is a first reading and anyone who believes that it is possible to complement this law, proposes specific amendments, concrete solutions, and becomes the voice of those who feel that they have not been heard here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u11	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The basic idea of the state getting the law on the Council of Justice must be supported, at least by the idea. In fact, this is the only area, and in fact, it does not have an appropriate law. But when a person looks at this text of the law and actually sees that it's some kind of stacking of puzzles, one would say. The existing rules have taken out those provisions that have already applied to the work of the Council of Justice, and therefore there is indeed no achievement or surplus in this law. If a man breaks five leaves together and gets a bigger pole, there's still five leaves, there's no half, you know. You know what I mean. But all right, let's go in order. Article 10, 5 members of the Council of Justice shall be elected by the National Assembly and 6 judges shall be elected by themselves. Here's the thing, so they're going to have the majority again, so to speak. What's at the start, in my opinion, is a wrong story. In fact, in the Council of Justice we should still have a two-thirds majority if you want, other people and not those who are employed in justice. Then you might say it's some kind of autonomous organ. The next thing you know, they're lawyers. Lawyers are indeed written in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but they are written in my opinion – and I suggest that the coalition think hard – in a way that this is not necessarily necessary. But they're easy. By the way, look, a lawyer is a client in the process all the time. There's always a client in the process. And if the lawyer is a party to the proceedings, and now he's going to decide as a member of the Council of Justice, he's going to decide the fates of the judges, he's going forward, he's going through disciplinary proceedings and everything else, it's a flaw. I know they're written in the constitution, but once again, I think they're written in such a way that it's not necessary to put a lawyer in the Council of Justice. She's a lawyer, like I said. She's a party to the case. He's the same as the D.A. if you want. But it's the judge who's judging between them. Many times the judge will give a fine to a lawyer. We have now seen that the Minister is also suing us, the state of Slovenia, for some fine she received as a lawyer. The situation is simply such that it is not permissible, in fact, that we have lawyers inside. I know the case when someone who was a lawyer and was a member of the Council of Justice said to the judge at the main hearing: “We will see each other in the Council of Justice.” And of course you've seen each other. That judge is no longer the head of the court, but she's only a judge. I am serious about the question of lawyers in the Council of Justice. I think they need to be eliminated. In my opinion. Article 11 says it's an honorary function. Everything's fine and fine. So we'll have six judges on trial five days a week, and the sixth day will be in the Council of Justice. That's about it. That's about it. Or the professors will work honorably in the Council of Justice. This is now – an honorary function, I don't know, they're already going to put travel costs in such a way that something else is going to fall in their pocket, and we need to know that. Article 16(4) There's a political flaw here again. However, we are already used to these political defects by the Minister. See what Article 16 says. It simply says that among those candidates proposed by the President of the Republic, more and more should be proposed, however many cities. Do you understand me? There's more to it than cities. Let's say there's gonna be five seats. The President of the Republic must propose more than 5 candidates, but not more than 10. What does that mean? This means that each time a coalition majority will choose their own colors. I do not know why the President of the Republic should be confined to proposing more candidates than cities. No need. If the President of the Republic is involved in this process, then let him have a function and not be alone, I will say, a drawback. Why? Because if we're going to involve him in this process, then we have to trust him to propose, I'll say, honor worthy, capable individuals. But if we tell him that he has to propose 10 for 5 cities, then we're making a little clown out of him, because that's how the National Assembly will decide on political criteria. He's just some flower on this package we brought in. It would probably suggest that you think about it. 22 articles are intended for those introductory provisions and what the Council of Justice is doing is a smaller number of articles. It's a funny story. What worries me about all this is that we already have today, or we're going to have even more disabled judges. Disability of the Presidents of the Courts. In fact, in management theory, you will be able to see very clearly what management functions are. And we hand over more or less managerial functions to the Council of Justice. The President of the Court remains a smoker at the top of the court, who performs little in public if he performs, but does not have any management functions or is deprived of these management functions for the most part. Well, actually, what else will the President of the Court decide? I don't know why we do, and we have the judges. They do, I don't know – what they do, I don't know, but they do. The functions, the administrations, are, in my opinion, given too much to the Council of Justice and too much to the Presidents of the Court. Come in. See paragraph 26. All sessions will be closed to the public. Ah, how we respect the constitution! The trials are public by the constitution. It's the trial. What, though, is so confidential in the Council of Justice that it has to be closed to the public? Yeah, what a sin of a judge somewhere. Or what? I don't know why so sessions are open, but part of the session is open, says this article, 26. Yeah, why? [[…]] Let them close down when they have data that is protected from them. The same, exactly, as is the case with the National Assembly. We also close the session when we talk about things that are marked by a code of secrecy. As a rule, however, the Council of Justice will have all the sessions closed. Why is that? Why is that? See, you find more or less in all articles to decide by a two-thirds majority. This is such a democratically beautiful look, though, a two-thirds majority. [[…]] But this two-thirds majority won't be hard to reach. Because more or less we will have — what? Judges, their professors, we're done. This is gonna be the Council of Justice. And the judges will be inside. Yes, in such a homogeneous group, it is not a problem for a two-thirds majority to achieve. Even if there was a Duck sitting in the Council of Justice, I'd say I'd trust the Council of Justice rather than be sitting there with only a judge and his professor. Come in. Disciplinary procedures, paragraph 37. Look at the size of the flossule in there. The disciplinary procedure is quick. Can anyone explain to me what that means? What does that mean, discipline is quick? Yeah, it could take five years. He was fast, but he couldn't. He can't be, he's fast. What nonsense we're writing in our marriage. And now keep going. The Senate, however, will decide in the disciplinary procedure, and there are two judges in there, one of their professors. And now, if three, then two judges – we're already there, crows don't turn off their eyes. I'd like to see Duck in there. I'm cariculating, but someone who'll have a healthy farmer's mind first, and then college. I think it'd be better. Article 45 The Minister is the initiator of the disciplinary procedure. If I were a billmaker, I wouldn't dare write that in. And I don't think it's necessary for the Minister to be the initiator of the disciplinary procedure. I don't know why he would be. Maybe, because he has some supervisory functions of administration, because we know that, and from that point of view, okay, but I think he should probably be the chairman first, which is the President of the Court. And what is most important, or what is most in heaven, is that now this step, if we get this law on the Council of Justice, which is needed, as I told you how to say, I do not see any added value from this point of view, to strengthen the responsibility of the judge, responsibility and, of course, to influence the reputation of the judiciary. In short, under this law, if it is adopted in the form it is now, absolutely nothing will change. We will only have a law, but now we have these provisions in a number of other regulations. So at this stage, I can't predict support for this law. I say at this stage, however, if the amendments make the matter more enjoyable, we will, of course, decide then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u13	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice is, from the point of view of the organisation of state authority, a sui generis body which cannot be classified in any of the three branches of authority. Its task, on the one hand, is to safeguard the independence of individual judges and the judiciary as a whole and to promote accountability, efficiency and quality of the judiciary. The proposed solutions in the new law strengthen the role and responsibility of the Council of Justice. Among other things, it will be given unlimited access to the personal and other protected data it needs for its work. It is also entrusted with some new powers, one of which is one of the most important transfers of powers for disciplinary sanctioning judges to the jurisdiction of the Council of Justice. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that this is a good decision because the Council of Justice is composed not only of representatives elected from among themselves by judges, but also by representatives of university professors of law, lawyers and other lawyers. It also seems very important to us that in a disciplinary procedure, judges will also be judged by people who are not judges. Thus, the powers of appointment and discharge of the disciplinary authorities, which the General Meeting of the Supreme Court holds after the adoption of this Act, will be taken over by the Council of Justice. It is also transferred to the seat of disciplinary authorities, which has so far been in the Supreme Court. In addition, the proposal also sets out the reasons for the termination of membership in the Council of Justice, and the procedures led by that body will be more transparent and clearer. With regard to his work, it is also important to note that the Court of Justice, as a single and direct budgetary user, will adopt its own budget. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the new powers and other changes brought by this bill to the Council of Justice will contribute to strengthening the position of this body. In view of the fact that the Council of Justice is the chief staff member, and that this will also strengthen the responsibility of judges, we also hope that these changes will result in an increase in general confidence in justice. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal to conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u15	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u16	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! An independent judiciary that can and can achieve the highest standards of independence and professionalism within itself is, of course, a fundamental condition for the existence of a State and for the State as such to fulfil its fundamental mission, namely to ensure impartial justice for all its peoples and entities. In order to be able to implement the constitutional provision that the Republic of Slovenia is a rule of law, it is crucial that a flawless, independent of influence, in particular from the influences of the policy, a system of choice, which is called the determination of responsibility and control over the exercise of duties, including the judicial branches of authorities, more precisely judges and judges. In order, of course, to minimise the possibility of using the river, that crows do not exclude their eyes, it is therefore crucial that the Council of Justice, as the basic body referred to in the preceding paragraph, is independent, independent, professional and that it itself has the opportunity to lead the substantive policy that it leads through the selection of judges and judges through the supervision of their work. That is why the law drafted by the Ministry of Justice needs to be welcomed and, despite some concerns, both the opposition and the coalition parliamentary groups on the ground today need our support and will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. In the following cases, many of the dilemmas, including the possible necessity of two-thirds decision-making within the world, need to be addressed and, above all, this law must be laid down in the context of the reform package of judicial laws sent by the Ministry to the National Assembly, which we will also discuss and decide today at this meeting. Justice needs more respect, it needs renewal, and in the Group of Social Democrats we are very pleased with the intensity with which the ministry under the leadership of Mr Klemenčič has done so. Not only that, but also the future law in this area is announced, of course not unconditionally, but critically, support and we hope that, after the conclusion of this government's mandate, there will also be a level of confidence in justice and thus in the ability of the State to ensure impartial justice for all its citizens and citizens, at a significantly higher level than at the beginning of the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The text is by Dr László Göncz, to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. To begin with, given the extent to which we have discussed cooperation with the Council of Justice in recent years and the functioning of the Council of Justice in general, I welcome the drafting of the Law on the Council of Justice. The motioner wrote that he believed in providing an opportunity for a greater degree of confidence in the judiciary. I want this to be the case, and in that part he will probably also be right when we talk about status issues, such as sui generis, modus operandi, organisation, quite clearly written in this draft or draft law. However, I believe that it is clear to all of us that timely and fair decision-making will be what will in fact guarantee greater confidence in the judiciary. So the judicial world itself, whatever it may be, will not be enough, but it is certain that the timeliness and justice of the judiciary will be what will weigh down here to a large extent. However, it is possible to confirm that opinion or the assumption that transparent organisation and the functioning of the Council of Justice can contribute greatly to this. That's why I took the floor today because I want to point out two or three things. I would like to highlight the content that deals only with the composition of the Council of Justice. I believe that the question of the relationship – whether 5 appoints the National Assembly and 6 judges themselves or vice versa – has already been raised here today, it would be worth considering. Also because of expectations, I'll say both expertise and the public. Of course, I also accept different arguments and different opinions, but I would certainly try to think about it. I also find it somewhat questionable to have the privilege or honor of carrying out this activity. Indeed, there can be a great deal of practical issues and uncertainties that will be needed in such a way and so far. So I think this is also a question where an intermediate solution could be sought. That to a certain extent of work is either semi-professional or otherwise arranged. Of course, it's just one thought. However, I am most interested in Article 23 of the proposal, which is the competence. The fourth and fifth indents talk about when candidates for election are proposed for judicial office and discharge. So, I think we've had a lot of difficulties with the criteria in the past tense on the Commission's mandate. On the basis of what criteria can the National Assembly then assess the proposal that came into the National Assembly? I believe that any article or paragraph should still be devoted to this content, because this is the most difficult aspect. From the point of view of the National Assembly, we were always in uncertainty whether we were making decisions or making decisions, I don't know, on the basis of actual arguments or anything else. I believe that there is at least some possibility here that the National Assembly will obtain some information on the criteria for deciding on the proposal, it would be right to write it down in this law. Of course, it is also only for thought. Finally, let me open the question of the openness of the decision or action of the Council of Justice. I'd put it the other way around. Therefore, the Council of Justice should act in public, but it can, of course, close its meetings at any time if a real need arises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u19	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Primož Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! This law must first be examined through the framework of the system in which it must be placed. It could most likely be significantly different if judges and judges were not elected in the National Assembly. As such, it raises a much broader question as to whether it is appropriate for us to finally have the last word in this room. Why is that a key question? If, by a completely plastic comparison, I say that several Members and Members have been involved in judicial proceedings, similar to lawyers, if you want, if I accept what Dr. Gorenak has already pointed out to me and the Presidents of the Republic are substantially less or not. And in this respect, the question of independence and commitment to an expert decision at the last instance in the selection process is, of course, a key issue that we must address. And on the question of whether we will be able to change the system of election of judges as well as resolution at the final stage, the image and final implementation of this law in some other context is essential. But in the current circumstances, we still love judges and judges in the National Assembly, and it is therefore important that this law brings at least a few extra guards, which, at least personally, I do not think are as beautiful a nature as anyone would like to show. At the very least, the question of disciplinary proceedings and sanctions being brought before the Court of Justice is something that can raise confidence in the independence of the judiciary. Of course, this is not the only step that can be taken, but it is one that can make an important contribution. In the face of general mistrust in justice, of course, it is unusual for those who first find themselves to find someone who has made a mistake to make a decision about him. And that's important jurisdiction. At the same time, it is very important that the Council of Justice is also actually becoming more independent in financial and administrative terms. I don't think that Mr Gönch's thinking is wrong about whether it is an honorable and not a professional function. Because the issue of ensuring independence and quality in justice through the selection of judges and judges is not a matter of leisure activity. And maybe it's not right to be treated as such. But these are all the questions that I hope that we will address through the debate today, and even more in the second reading, and I certainly believe that the will of the Ministry to clear these issues and through the amendments will lead to the possibility that the opinion, for example, New Slovenia, might have been very receptive to this law at this point in its decision-making, the final confirmation of this law. At least on the coalition side, I believe it's the will to do it. Law means a step forward and is a good basis, certainly necessary to strengthen the independence and reputation of justice. Of course, these two are crucial for citizens to have reason to trust in this country. This will also be a successful solution to the important part of the problems we are facing today. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u21	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. It has been said that this law will help and enhance the independence and reputation of the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia, which we know has a bad reputation and how poorly they assess it in terms of independence. If this marriage is going to bring this, then I have no problem supporting it. However, I say once again what we have stressed in the past is crucial to changing perceptions, confidence among peoples in justice, and the constitutional change in the composition of the Council of Justice. If there are now 6 votes for judges who actually elect one of themselves and 5 votes for lawyers, lawyers and professors of law colleges, it is clear exactly how and what will be named for the courts in the future. True, the National Assembly – we confirm here at some declaration level judges on their functions. However, we must not forget that we have already had two cases here when we rejected someone and told the Council that it is not a suitable candidate, but, of course, once again, the Council of Justice, because of those six judges sitting in the Council of Justice, has sent a candidate to the National Assembly for decision. If the composition of the Council of Justice were to be different, that probably would not have happened. Then it could be, we could talk about some independent justice and, of course, strengthening the reputation of justice and, finally, the Council of Justice among citizens. It seems to me that the proposal of the law provides that, among other things, the Council of Justice also adopts criteria or criteria for the selection of candidates for a judicial seat and criteria for the quality of the work of judges, for the assessment of the judicial service, but does not talk about the method, on the implementation level, as it will be determined, is practically left to the one who will decide on that basis. [[…]] And indeed, the problem is in the composition of the Council of Justice. We really hoped in New Slovenia, when we heard that changes were coming in terms of the composition of the Council of Justice, we said, but we will all take a step forward together and we will go into a change in this composition. Unfortunately, in this way or in this way, which is actually clear to everyone, this proposal of the Law on the Judiciary has not come to the fore. It's hard to say then that we're going to have a trial that's going to be independent. I think that if you have a majority in the composition of the Council of Justice, you can't be independent, and I'm actually afraid that our entire judiciary is precisely because of this original sin within the Council of Justice is not capable of some self-reflection, and we find that on all the committees of the National Assembly, where the problems are – simply that the actual judiciary is in some way a closed system, but let us leave now that we have unexecuted wills and so on, nothing really happens. No one is responsible for certain matters. On top of that, such judges can progress even if they do, because they know each other. I look very closely at such a composition of the Council of Justice, which, of course, is also justified. This is all the time to point out that, at the outset, it is necessary to allow the actual composition and appointment of judges to take place at the most transparent level, where it is actually determined by criteria, criteria, by the way in which this is measured, including the appointment of judges or the promotion of judges. Also, the fact that decisions must be clear, including the Council of Justice, and detailed, without simply knowing how and what the reasons for the vote in the particular case were. This too, I think, is very important, and this is expected in the future for a better and greater confidence in the judiciary. As I said, because of this original concern, which does not actually govern the composition of the Council of Justice, we will not support the law in Novi Slovenija. Because we think this is the first step towards a more just, reasonable and, of course, transparent and independent justice in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u23	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u24	Your Honor! We have before us the law of the Council of Justice. In fact, it is that the Council of Justice is also a constitutional category, and therefore it seems important to me that we are all responsible in this matter when it comes to it, but above all that the arguments that have been heard in this Chamber today have been heard practically by most of the members of the groups, and that there is really one important thought about how to prepare solutions that will actually be systemic. In his presentation, the Minister said that it was a system law. I can't quite agree with that. For me, it's not just about you setting up a framework for the functioning of the Council of Justice. It is the fact that the Council of Justice is not now a single body of its own doing something of its own, but it is an important part of the functioning of the judicial system. For me, a systemic solution will be when a body acts in a way that will result in a real improvement in the functioning of the judicial system in this case. This law, which is before us, to be revealed, does not bring it into those essential parts. The Minister stated in one of the statements or presentation: “The confidence of the public in the judiciary stands and falls on the ability or inability of all three branches of government to do everything within the framework of their constitutionally defined powers to ensure a higher quality of the judiciary, and where necessary to determine responsibility and sanction errors.” Now, if we look at it, great record, the thing is. But the bill doesn't follow that sentence. Why not? See how the Council of Justice will help, or will this law specifically help to sanction mistakes? It won't, because it's already been said, but the crows don't turn off their eyes. Last but not least, most of this system is coming, and it's hard to tell me that now they're going to expose themselves and literally most of those who sit together are going to work, now they're going to settle. Or, Your Honor. Or just because they're sitting together and they're behind, I say, different, they'll use this function for something else. I think we're irresponsible as legislators if we let that happen. Finally, we give these members of the Council of Justice some responsibility that they may not want to have in the majority. And it would be easier for them, as representatives from the judicial branch, if they were not the majority decision-maker. If you understand me correctly, I am talking about the relationship between those members of the Council of Justice coming from the types of courts and the so-called public or in this case the professional public. In fact, this thought has several aspects. Someone in the Council of Justice may want to act fairly, but then within the system he will run into obstacles because he will decide to do so, he may have doubts about what this will bring, and the matter is in a vicious circle. And here, because she is now with us as Secretary of State, is really my call to make in this sense also in the next steps this consideration of how this matter may be done differently. It will be more transparent and perhaps even more responsible for those sitting in the Council of Justice so that their action will not be compromised in any way. I'm not just going to talk about the composition, I'm going to talk about the so-called opening of the meetings. I, too, think that the meetings of the Council of Justice must not only be open, but that it must also be clear what the decisions of individual members are. There's nothing to hide here. If someone is a member of such an organ, he is likely behind his actions and words. If we are talking about some data that could be really controversial by the protection of personal data, look, there is no problem, it closes in that part of the meeting. We, too, have work on the Mandate-Election Commission, and we also have reports in the National Assembly, and we have the Commission to oversee intelligence and security services and so on and we all know that this is possible. Yeah, I can do that. But if we really want to raise responsibility in the judiciary itself, then we will be most likely in the way that this one works openly, to be known, this first member has decided so because of this, it has decided so, and, of course, we can then know exactly why. I welcome that perhaps this debate can be better because of today's debate – regardless of how many it will not be, but sometimes it is an important quality – which has already been said and exposed. If we had at least been in this meeting of the National Assembly – I cannot say for the past, I did not go to see this, nor do we matter – once we saw that the proposals coming, the election to the judicial functions and so on, are not always good. And together we have come up with some concerns that we need some more information. However, we are not elected here just to push some buttons because someone has said or proposed and that we want to stand up for this decision and that is why we need more information. And I think that this has been one important step forward in seeing that we just want to follow things, that we want some progress, but of course it is important that such things continue until we really get to a system that will breathe. And just to open these sessions to see decisions, I think, to all of us who have to decide some things, to help us make decisions. The so-called added value of the so-called Commission for Ethics and Integrity, which operates within the framework of the Council of Justice, is also discussed many times. I'd like to stop here, too, because I think it's important and this law doesn't change what it is. Look, we have a composition of a so-called commission that monitors the ethics and integrity of the judiciary only. I mean, now tell me if it's an effective organ. [[…]] Let us leave it, of course, but I must say that it is currently being run by or chaired by a person who has been burned at the European level who has participated in the violation of human rights, and now she is the first person to talk about integrity and ethics in the judiciary. He won't. Even if we do have such good marriage solutions, we will not be drawn if we do not be more careful about such compositions. But, as it is said, it would also be important here that, when we talk about ethics, integrity, that some representatives of the professional public would also be involved here, which would also be able to strengthen matters in a more substantive way, and that, in fact, if we already have this commission, it would be in the same sense as it should be. I think today it's an organ that has a nice name when we talk about integrity, it all sounds so good when we talk about ethics, we know how good it sounds, some win elections with it, but what matters is what it stands for, and then what we see, whether it is or not. Today, we have just this word of ethics, and in general we have already exhausted so much that I think they will want to delete it from any dictionary of the Slovenian book language. In short, there are solutions, some in this bill, which I cannot say are bad. But I still think it would be very good to think about the work that has already been exposed today, and I have highlighted it myself, and which I think is the key. That the key to the functioning of the Council of Justice is what the proposer may really want to be, in fact, to function with the help of his own marriage. But like this proposed law, we will not experience it. We can say that, of course, the law has been passed, that things that are somehow the subject of constitutional matter have been legally defined, but that is all. There will be no added value. It will not be in the quality of the work of judges or in the absence of key infringements. Since, last but not least, another task could also be added to the Council of Justice, including monitoring the responsible monitoring, and of course this is also published to the extent to which judges are causing serious violations or violations of human rights. Why not? My key, when I hit the button, has consequences. Yours, too. At any moment, journalists or anyone or electors may ask you why you have decided to do so. If we did, if you made the wrong choice, we'd be carrying the consequences. There's no such thing here. Here, however, this is not the case, and I believe that there is still some time until the conclusion of the procedure itself and the adoption of the law and that all these arguments that I have made should also be considered, regardless of the fact that I come from the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u25	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the system of parliamentary democracy, we probably have the opportunity of an individual parliamentary party to clarify our views, our views on certain extremely important social issues. The justice system in Slovenia is certainly an extremely important issue and a chapter and we talk about the rule of law in every mandate. And, of course, we are never satisfied. We probably all agree that we still have a lot of reserves here and that we can also make more legal countries in Slovenia with better legislation. We wrote in the programme of New Slovenia in so-called answers for the future: “It is necessary to move away from the current situation when they have judges in the Council of Justice who propose to the National Assembly for appointment. In view of the fact that the National Assembly of Judges practically always appoints judges in full formal terms, as it cannot interfere with the content of the appointments without risking the political clarity of such decisions, the judges actually appoint themselves through the proposed function in the Council of Justice.” That's right. Judges name themselves. “As the care of the independence and independence of the courts and judges and of ensuring the quality of their work and the public reputation of the judiciary is precisely the function of the Council of Justice, it will be necessary to amend its composition by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia so that the judges do not have a majority in it, and to the Council of Justice it will be necessary to attract the best experts, which our country overpowers.” So much, one short extract from the answers for the future of New Slovenia. Mr. Secretary said it was a new system law. Now we're back to that. The coalition says it is a systemic solution, it is a comprehensive solution when the opposition prepares a law or a bill, the coalition says, but this is not systemic and is not comprehensive, we will solve a problem with a systemic and comprehensive solution. As last time, I repeat, we do not have any criteria, we do not have a scale to weigh, whether a marriage solution is comprehensive and systemic or another (opposite) non-systematic and incomplete. We are simply assessing that this is not a system-wide and comprehensive law; it is only a combination of the applicable provisions of the Judicial Service Act and the Courts Act into a new law, of course with some additions which do not, according to our assessment, constitute no added value, but in particular do not mean an improvement in the reputation and quality of the functioning of the judiciary. Of course, we are for the judiciary to function well and to have a reputation. To have a reputation. Will this law that we are considering now, the law of the Council of Justice, give the judiciary a greater reputation – we are not convinced in New Slovenia that this will be the case. The basic task of the Council of Justice, i.e. proposing candidates for election to a judicial function as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as its composition, 11 members, of whom 5 members are elected by the President of the Republic, and 6 members elected by judges — judges therefore have a majority — who hold a permanent judicial office remain unchanged. So these two key functions remain essentially unchanged. The only change in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, according to our assessment, would bring the necessary changes to the composition of the Council of Justice, in which most of us would not have the judges themselves, who, in fact, as I have already said, call themselves. The National Assembly merely formally votes, practically at each monthly regular session, on new judges. However, what somehow inspires me with some optimism, but at the same time I wonder how much our Council of Justice, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia, benefits from it, is that the Council of the Republic of Slovenia is a founding member of the European Network of Judicial Councils. This network was set up in 2004 at the General Assembly in Rome, currently involving 22 members and participating in 15 observer countries. This is certainly to go, which could also help improve and enhance the reputation of the Slovenian judiciary in Slovenia. The main purpose of the European Network of Judicial Councils is to exchange data on the organisation and functioning of the judicial councils and the judiciary in the Member States, analyse these data and develop reports and recommendations on individual issues related to the functioning of the judiciary. We therefore assess that this is an important mission of the European Network of Judicial Councils. Of course, we Members, and even the opposition, do not have any kind of review, perhaps the Secretary of State will then say something about what are the good experiences of the European Network of Judicial Councils, which are already being implemented in Slovenia. Otherwise, it does not matter that we are in a European association, that only representatives of the Council go there to some meetings, meetings and so on, if Slovenia does not have any concrete, indeed concrete benefits. It is a very interesting fact that over the last two years, the largest working group of the European Network of Judicial Councils has dealt with the independence and responsibility of the judiciary. These are key issues, independence and responsibility. First, already in 2013, this working group developed indicators to assess the degree of independence and accountability of the judiciary in the Member States. On the basis of these, it prepared questionnaires, and for the first time an international survey was carried out among the judges themselves on how they perceive their internal and external independence. It is true that the results were recommended in both of these questionnaires to be published in the latest report of the European Network of Councils or this working group. I just couldn't find this report, but I'll keep trying. It is therefore crucial that, if we are, I repeat, in a European association, to transfer good experience from the judiciary of other countries to our country. As we have already said in the position of the New Slovenia Group, we do not see in this law on the Council of Justice, the new law, some added value, we do not see any guarantee, some guarantee to improve the reputation of the Slovenian judiciary, so there will be no support for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u27	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Dr. Jasna Murgel ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Respected and respected! In the introduction to my debate, I cannot help but conclude that the proposed solutions to the Judicial Council law strengthen the role and responsibility of the judiciary. The fundamental and constitutional task entrusted to the Council under Article 130 of the Constitution is to propose candidates for election to judicial office. The election itself is entrusted to the National Assembly. Thus, in the system of division of power, the Council of the Court of Justice provides for the constitutional cooperation between the legislative and judicial branches of power. Its human resources function ensures specific democratic legitimacy for the judiciary. As a result of the constitutionally defined situation, the Council of Justice shall, within its competences, decide on the authoritative and professional autonomy of the Member States, and thus independently of the three constitutionally defined branches of authority. I got this out of the file so there wouldn't be anything wrong. I note that this is how the Council of Justice contributes decisively to ensuring the independence of the judiciary and of the judges as well. I will mention some of the solutions to the law on the Council of Justice, which I find very important. First of all. The proposal for a law strengthens the position of the Council of Justice as an independent and independent body. From the point of view of the organisation, therefore, the Council of Justice is an organ of state authority or the authority of sui generis. From now on, more important decisions of the Council of Justice will be published in anonymous form on the Court’s website. This seems a very important novelty to me because it is a matter of public action or of allowing citizens to become acquainted with the work of the Council of Justice. The news will also be the obligation of the Council of Justice to report on its work to the National Assembly, and the report will also be sent to the Supreme Court and the Minister for Information. New is also a provision governing the position and immunity of members of the Council of Justice. According to the proposal of the law, the function of a member of the Council of Justice will be honorable and incompatible with the functions of other State bodies, political parties' bodies and other functions and activities which are legally incompatible with the exercise of a public function. Immunity will be enjoyed only by a member of the Council of Justice in the context of expressing his opinion and the vote he will give at the meeting of the Council of Justice. The greater continuity of the work of the Council of Justice will be ensured by the Institute of the President and Vice-President of the Council, which will be re-elected for a term of three years. The Council of Justice is also entrusted with some new powers such as the appointment of disciplinary authorities and giving a preliminary opinion on determining the number of judicial posts in a particular court and determining the organisational units of the courts which will contribute to strengthening the position of the Council of Justice. The proposal for a law regulates in detail the proceedings before the Court of Justice, which is not regulated at the legal level under the applicable law, but rather regulated by the Court of Justice in its Rules of Procedure. If you allow me a few more words about the disciplinary commission, there is a two-step disciplinary procedure in force in the current regulation, and according to the law on the Council of Justice, the disciplinary procedure is one-step. The transfer of the seat of disciplinary authorities from the Supreme Court to the Council of Justice is also an important fact. The Council of Justice will also provide financial resources for these bodies, disciplinary bodies and for professional work and administrative assistance. The authorities for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings shall be appointed by the Council of Justice. The Disciplinary Court will have nine members, three members of the Council of Justice, one president and two vice-presidents, and six members who will be judges, two judges from the Supreme Court, two judges from the Supreme Court and two first-degree judges. Judicial proceedings against decisions of the Disciplinary Authority shall be provided for or provided for in an administrative dispute. Therefore, those who are not satisfied with the decision of the Disciplinary Authority will be able to exercise their right in an administrative dispute in which, like other decisions of the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court in the Chamber of Five Judges will decide. One of the most important innovations is the proposed legal arrangement for the Court of Justice to adopt its budget as a single and direct budgetary user. Therefore, without the intervention of the Supreme Court, it defines and represents its financial needs. Respected and respected! If you'll allow me to conclude the following. Yesterday in the National Assembly, I expressed my belief that the amendments to the laws that we are considering and proposed by this ministry and, of course, as the leading minister of mags will be. Mr Klemenčič, they have brought about significant changes in the functioning of the judiciary and will also raise the judiciary to a higher level and give them back the reputation which, of course, belongs to justice. Therefore, I thank the Ministry, on my behalf, of course Klemenčič, for its efforts in the field of judicial change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u29	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and then the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much. In the introduction, I drew attention to this composition of five members of the Council of Justice of the external, so-called, and six of the judicial types. A while ago – we were not in favour, but against no – you entered the constitution of the right to drinking water, out there toasted, a little champagne went by, and we took a little picture of how wonderful it was. Because of this, no one has free water and no plumbing is yet where they have not been before. Why did I make this introduction? Because this coalition would probably do much better if it amended Article 131. In fact, look at this, because the proposaler is the end of the time-bound period and five external six judges. But now we're back on the crow system, the crows don't turn off their eyes. So this would require a change of constitution. But I still believe that these lawyers listed in article 131 as other lawyers, as other lawyers, do not need to be included in the law on the Council of Justice. And I don't think they're in there because it's a purely conflict of interest. A lawyer is a party to a case and a lawyer can never, never decide on any status of a judge or anything like that. He can't. He can't. He's a party in the process. Because then the prosecutor must also be put in, in order for this to be equal. That's one thing. Otherwise, it must be said that even where there is a possibility in the law, let us say in disciplinary bodies, where it is possible to make a case different so that there would be two externals and one judge, and in fact the law does not allow it. And it would suggest in that part that there are two outsiders and one of a kind of judge in disciplinary proceedings. According to the constitution, we can't. I'd be glad if we were alone outside and no judge. But you can't do that under the Constitution. That's one thing. Another point to be made, I said earlier in the introduction that most of the management functions, the functions of the manager, the management, those who have read something on the subject of management, you know what this is about, in fact, article 23 is now kind of taking on the Presidents of the courts in large part and transferring it to the Council of Justice. If you take that the management is planning, organizing, managing and controlling these four functions, you will see that all of the 23rd indent, which is quite long, has almost 2 pages, you can get into these four areas – planning, organizing, managing and controlling. But if you take all these things away from the Chief, the Chief, the Chief, this is the President of the Court in this case, you take away all these things, you take away the management functions, then I wonder why we need the Presidents of the Court. What? Then what else? Okay, you were the judge, you'll know more about it. I think you're right behind me. What's left then? What are the Presidents of the Court doing? If you see that all that is written in Article 23 is transferred to the Council of Justice. But now they're just distributing mail, or cases of judgment in cases or what? That's the only thing we don't need him for, in my opinion. Because we still have the director of the court, who is technically in charge of the court. So I personally believe that in Article 23, there are substantially too many functions transferred to the Council of Justice. As far as this second piece is concerned, so-called unprofessionality. Tell me, which professor, I'll tell you, he'll travel honorably every week to Ljubljana for his money, so he can perform his duties honorably? No, no, there aren't any. It's not like that. So it's a malfunction, I think, in the system. Secondly, see, you wrote in there also that work in the Council of Justice is not compatible with work in other state bodies. This isn't going together right now. So, tell me where those six judges are going to be. They'll do this honorably, then what? They can't work in court, that's what it says. In the broader sense, these are state bodies. In the broader sense of the word. Please refer to section 11 of your proposal. In the broader sense, these are state authorities, it is said, that he works honorably in the Council of Justice and must not act as a judge. It doesn't work together. So, where do we have him? Where are you gonna put it? To the employment office? Where are you going to put it? Or how will he live? He's gonna get honor in Mercator, I'll say, that buy, or how's that gonna work? [[…]] It won't work. I think you have here, for the first time, that part that's not compatible with work, out of the bag, in my opinion, with the amendment. And second of all, this honorary function. You'd better write something down to get something. I don't know what; it's smarter to give him something. Because they're gonna have something anyway. They will adopt a rule saying that the session is 100 euros or what I know what they will say. They'll say something. It doesn't make sense that you're married, that it's an honorable function, because you know it won't be honorable. You can't live with honor. On account of the Mercator's honor, they're nothing. Yeah, that's right. It doesn't make sense. It's smarter to say they're entitled to a meeting or I don't know what. I think that's a better option. And then this meeting is set somewhere in some reasonable amount, so that it won't be now, and I don't know what's going to come out of it. However, Article 11 is at odds with itself. On the one hand, it speaks of honorary performance and, on the other hand, that it is not compatible with work in other state bodies. If you're going to have someone in there, now it's hard to say who, let's say, that Dr. Boštian M. Zupančič would be a member of the Judicial Council, let's say he would be, then he should no longer be a member of the Justice Department. According to Article 11, he can no longer work there. But there will be honorary work in the Council of Justice. Then I don't know how that's gonna work. Will he probably have to live on savings from work abroad, or how will that work? In short, it doesn't make sense. Come in. Shut up. I am aware that they may appear at certain meetings of the Council of Justice of matter, materials containing some protected data. We also consider these things here in the National Assembly, we know how the matter is technically arranged to respect those personal data that are protected, and I see no reason, I will say that the Council of Justice would normally – because now the law says that they will be closed to the public all the sessions and that something can be opened there. Now, here's where it can open, I believe nothing will ever open. Unless there's a reporter in particular who's going to be struggling, or nothing's going to open up. This means that you are closing with the law of the Court of Justice hermetically down and that the public will not be entitled to anything. It should absolutely be the other way around. It's the same as if the National Assembly is secretly ambushed. Shouldn't people know what we're doing here in the National Assembly? Thank God they can follow us through the media. I also think that the sessions of the Council of Justice should be simply opened to the public and technically arranged in such a way that personal data will be protected. Article 37 should also be amended as a matter of urgency. The Secretary of State, since I see you writing, or your coworkers, see if we already have the Council of Justice drawn up like this, then at least put outside members and not judges in the disciplinary bodies. Not that two judges are one external member, I am talking about Article 37. Why? Because of some impartiality. What would it be like to have a disciplinary judgment in the National Assembly? Oh! Look what he looks like. Just like then on the MVK when you have to rip it off. That's what it looks like. You're all looking for, I'm looking for -- not because I'm not a member, but I wasn't missing at the time -- you're all looking for reasons not to rip each other off, not to rip each other off. [[…]] Because someone wasn't at the meeting. And it's the same in the Council of Justice then. Let them be members of the disciplinary commission then at least only externally, no. Because otherwise, we cannot do according to Article 131 of the Constitution. Not even that the two judges are one outside. It really doesn't work. Either way, I say it's a collection of professors and judges, but you can't do anything else based on the constitution. We should change the constitution. But if we have this, let's at least put outsiders on disciplinary committees and not judges. In Article 45, throw the minister out. The matter will be much more hygienic. But it will be much more in that context that the judiciary is independent. If the judiciary is independent, then the Minister should have nothing to do with disciplinary procedures, because it will be a much more consistent story. Why should a minister be the one to propose disciplinary procedures? But I don't know if you're capable of anything else. I think there is something else that can be complemented in terms of strengthening responsibility. Responsibilities. In fact, now that the world of justice is as bad as it is, the badly broken pieces of paper are this marriage. It's from the court laws, from the law, and I don't know where they're from, and they're all broken together, and we've got a law. This law, as my predecessor, Mrs Porotat said, sees otherwise as a coalition MP, but if we met in five years' time, I believe that we could find that nothing has changed but nothing, but nothing. Because what exactly is the novelty of this marriage? What is the prize for citizens? Nothing. What's winning for the court? Nothing. It's all written as it has been, but now it's written in several laws, but now we've put it together in one marriage. And nothing can change, and it's not good, it's not a good thing. And this matter needs to be rectified. There's a whole bunch of stuff in there about the code. What does the code help you? Codex, you all know what a code is. The code is a collection of moral rules that the morals respect, but the immoral are not. There are no consequences, however, because the Code does not have any sanctions. The code is nothing, by the way. This has also proved to be a fine thing for this government. First they're famously signing the code, then the left hand, the right pocket immediately shows up. From the point of view, let's say what were those, in short, accessories, readiness and things like that. So it's nothing. The one who is, I'll say, as much responsible as he is, he'll follow the rules anyway, the ones who won't, whether the code is or isn't. And don't make a clown out of the President of the Republic, because there's now a president of the clown Republic who can propose 10 people for 5 seats. If we give the President of the Republic this function to propose them, and we have to give it to him according to the constitution, then he should take this job with authority, take responsibility and choose such people who belong to the Council of Justice, and the National Assembly should elect them. Not that he'll have to give 10 candidates for 5 places, but then you'll choose the ones who have a larger left half of the heart than the right. And it will become a political body, and the President of the Republic will remain a clown. Not to do it, not to limit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u31	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word and then in the concluding part of the general debate he gets the word of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. This is why the general debate is welcome to discuss some of the issues that may still exist within the framework of the law and that perhaps we can address them further, correct them, whatever the case. I am true, you may not believe me, but I am really glad that we have gone into general discussion and that we are today discussing all aspects of this law that may need to be corrected, exposed, discussed. This also gave us a little more time to actually do this. This is a specific law, which, of course, will have an important impact on justice, the Council of Justice is a body, we have already heard, the sui generis in justice, but it has a very important function within the framework of justice – there are judges and other lawyers from other fields – deciding on the election of judges, exercising the choice of candidates for judicial posts and then deciding on the discharges. I think we did the right thing and we still have time. I promise you that we will review the magnetogram of this session and that we will take into account the comments that we have heard today and consider each of them and try to contribute to making the law as best and as appropriate as possible to adopt it in the end. I really think it's important that discipline goes to the Council of Justice. That's not sticking. As far as I know, there is no terrible interest in the current arrangement for judges to be members of the disciplinary commission. It's not, and that's why the system doesn't work. If it will be in another body – within the framework of the Constitution we can talk about the composition of this, but I think it is particularly important for the reputation of the Slovenian judiciary that we have a disciplinary commission that works. This is absolutely necessary. For example, I met myself in court when I was the head of the executive department, saying that someone might not meet the conditions. I will not explain what happened then, but certainly, it is in the interests of the judicial service that those who need to be sanctioned are sanctioned and that a bad light is not then shed on all the others who are working a long time. That's what I think we all agree on. And we have also repeated this here several times, so it is essential to establish an effective and functioning disciplinary procedure. It is important how the proceedings before the Council of Justice are regulated, because, believe me, the procedure has now reached such a dimension that it is very difficult to get through the Council of Justice. I don't think he's terribly, very forgiving to the judges, either. On the contrary. But that's why it's important how this thing is arranged. It does not, however, bring some significant changes to the same assessment process, but it does. About the other proposals. If anyone has them, I suggest that he make specific proposals, as I said in the SMC's presentation, to propose amendments to the law and we will discuss this. But not to say, I stand up for this and that, for the judiciary to be, I don't know what it is, and then I didn't even have to discuss this law, to say something about it. Except for the point of view, which is: I would like to complement something, but I am not if I really made a concrete comment on the law, a concrete amendment, but I will not, now I will find myself. At first reading, I will also support the law itself. However, with all my faith, I will examine what we have discussed today and try to contribute to as many things as possible being taken into account. As far as we can tell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u33	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's a pleasure, I'll say, to sit here today. I, too, would like to thank in the introductions, like Ambassador Murgel, for this constructive and substantively rich debate, good proposals, particularly by the opposition species, and I must make this frank and in-depth study. I will also tell you why, but once again, indeed, today's debate here has certainly not been in vain and opens up new aspects, new opportunities for possible improvement of the legislative proposal. Now, as I say, I'm going after individual content sets. First of all, it has been said on our part that it is a system law and, on your part, there is doubt as to whether it is a system law. I'd like to answer that part like this. This is not a system law because it would be broken or transposed by the scattered provisions of other laws, but we believe that it is systemic because we want to actually set up the Council of Justice with this law and to build it as a human being of the judiciary. In the current regulation, we know that certain personnel are also within the jurisdiction of the judiciary, and with this law we want to overcome this and actually achieve that the staff member and the staff member will be responsible for the profession of judicial service, if I may say so, the Council of Justice alone. So, in this triangle created by the judiciary as such, the Council of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, in our opinion, and this path we have already begun in the previous mandate by amending the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service, the Supreme Court of Justice and the Court of Justice, those who have a rich degree of administrative authority of the judiciary, the Council of Justice, who is the staff and the care that competent people come into the system, then also supervises, sanctions and manages them, the Ministry of Justice, and those who take care of the judiciary as a whole, for all the building blocks, that is to say, this umbrella and within the legally permissible borders and within the limits permitted by the division of power, exercise consistent and up to date, more than ever, also supervisory powers. So we want to build this triangle with this law to the end, so we think it's systemic. There was much debate about the composition of the Council of Justice itself. Here, as has already been pointed out and specifically stated by New Slovenia, the borders are set by the Constitution. The Constitution is kind of locking us in here. However, even if that were not the case, it should be said that our Council of Justice is comparatively silent, even otherwise, in the judicial councils of other countries, say Croatia, the judges are even richer. Croatia has a ratio of 7:4, Italy and Poland say 15:10, i.e. 15 judges, 10 other legal professionals. So if I can listen to the arguments and think about whether this composition is right or wrong, but when I think about it, honestly, immediately ask me a question, you know, before I develop it, let me say that the opinion of the Consultative Council of European Judges at the Council of Europe is that in the Council of Justice we are either judges or mostly judges. [[…]] I want to say, even in the Council of Europe, even in the Association of Councils of Justice, the European Councils, this is the position. We're really no exception here. I wonder, however, if the composition would be different, so that other lawyers, legal experts, would prevail, whether they would not come into trouble with this, so they would crash into this guarantee of the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the judiciary and the interference of the policy if you wanted to, or other currents into it. So right here, if we tried to change the composition, we'd bump into this problem. Therefore, we believe that there is little room for manoeuvre in itself, but there is room for manoeuvre at most, that is to say, in determining the majority by which the Council of Justice decides. We know that a two-thirds majority is required for all important decisions already, i.e. by a two-thirds majority, it is decided to propose candidates for election to a judicial service, appointment, promotion. The Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice even allow this high majority, a two-thirds majority, to be appointed here by 8 judges, and therefore not only judges, to decide other matters. So here is the possibility, so formal or practical, for all decisions, a large majority could be determined. As it is said, in the composition itself, I do not know how much manoeuvre we have, including taking into account foreign advice and foreign practice. More than that, since it is not the foreign one who teaches us — this reflection on whether we have yet to have a different composition of independence, the non-politicality of judicial work, what our goal is. [[…]] So much for the composition. With regard to the closure of the meetings of the Council of Justice, there was a lot of talk about it. Here too we open things up, we set out that decisions must be published, that is, transparency we are building, and also in line with the recommendations of the Consultative Council of European Judges. But here I am a bit of an answer to Mr Horvath, his question was where we have taken into account foreign good practices. Example. We also took them into account here when we followed the recommendation that the important explanations of the Council of Justice be reasoned. Therefore, there has not been such a practice now, so it has not been explicitly prescribed, and in the future it will be that all important decisions, promotions, evaluations, disciplinary matters and designations will be justified, thus also on the transparency, openness and transparency of the functioning of the Authority. Let me put it this way. There was also a lot about the choice of candidates for judicial service. Not only have these proceedings become more transparent in the course of previous novels, it is important to know what may be heard too often, but it is also possible to discuss whether the current Council of Justice actually takes this seriously. In short, I would like to point out that the appointment of judges under the current regime should no longer take place solely or mainly on the basis of written documentation, but is envisaged in the law – and we want to make as much use as possible – of professional examinations including, in particular, tests or assessments of the personality, personality characteristics of the candidate, including psychological tests. So, we want to upgrade this stable and really narrow practice to take a look at the evaluations in law school and it was that criterion that was an important factor in the selection of candidates. Now this selection is significantly broader, it allows for wider insight and really a choice of personality-appropriate candidates. If I go back to where we have followed the recommendations of foreign good practices. So, I said, in saying that more important decisions will now be justified, in the composition of the Council of Justice itself, even if the Council of Justice is now in a new capacity to take decisions on matters of its status, let it be that the one who decides and proposes his budget, or that he gives an opinion to the number of courts, to the network of courts. In short, this is where we strengthen their role. And, of course, as I have already mentioned, we have also dealt very much with the transparency and openness of the functioning of the Authority, which is also an important recommendation from the Council of Europe. Mrs Kotnik Popotat spoke about the fact that we are now moving the mandate of the President and Vice-President from one year to three years. This seems important to us to ensure the continuity of work, in short, one year is certainly too short a period. I have made some further observations from Mr Gorenak below. You correctly note that nowhere does it say that a member of the Council of Justice must be a lawyer. That's for sure. So, judges, the rest, legal experts. We will think more clearly about whether this should be further highlighted in the explanation. However, it seems very important to me that we will review again, that is, when I explained earlier that we want to build this triangle of the Council of Justice — the staff, the judiciary — the judiciary, the Ministry — the judicial administration and the control within the limits of our leave, or that we are really taking away the administrative powers of the Presidents of the courts. This was by no means our purpose, and if so, we will correct matters accordingly. And also a comment, i.e. again by the opposition types. It is certainly not meant that judges in the Council of Justice for the time of membership are not active judges, so this current Article 11 which is essentially a copy of the present Article seems to require one revision. Those state authorities – we are really a little in the field of uncertainty, so we will also re-examine this part. And this argument of yours – really, as I said in the introduction, rich debate, useful arguments – we will also reconsider the composition of disciplinary bodies. Here we will also look at the practice of the CCJE Consultative Council, the Consultative Council of European Judges, with the Council of Europe, so here we will also reconsider and review comparable arrangements. With regard to Article 45, the Minister shall be the proponent of the disciplinary procedure. This option is inside because, on the other hand, we have, as you know, at the Ministry of the Management of Courts, and this seemed to us to be a possible extension or one of the options, taking into account the findings of the service, but, as it is said, it may also be subject to consideration and re-weighting of interests, benefits and downs. I think I've covered everything on a roof, so once again, colleagues, and we've written things down ourselves, we've listened, and we're going to, and there's still time, and we're going to try to upgrade and weigh what's been exposed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet run out, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. If you'd like to discuss, also a representative of the government, please sign in. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 12th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law supplementing the law on criminal procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much. According to the previous debate, one would expect or would like to see some kind of constructiveness at all points of the agenda, in particular where members of the opposition propose a law. Because obviously the marriage we talked about a little while ago is going to be pretty much fixed, and that's good. As for this agenda item, which we are now at, briefly, the following. Yesterday, in the National Assembly, we discussed this recommendation to the Government to amend the Criminal Procedure Act, which would further safeguard the rights of those individuals who file criminal charges and, of course, the abolition of criminal charges. And we talked a lot yesterday about this law, which is actually on the agenda today. And let me say here at the start and answer that question where the minister is yesterday, I hope he'll be Secretary of State today – Is there no one else here or what? Interesting. – that the representatives of the ministry will not say that the SDS has tabled a proposal which is actually the copy-paste of their proposal last year. I call on everyone else not to say that because it's not true. I have a comparison of one text and another. One and the other. Fix it in a reminder. Will you? Okay. In short, I've got both texts ahead of me, that's the situation. A thousand 897 characters have our text, and your thousand 297, short for more than 650 characters, is a difference, so you wouldn't talk about any plagiarism, because then you'd have to look at another diploma. Lucky those old ones aren't in electronic form. Isn't it? It is true, however, that the content of the way in which we propose this amendment, the Secretary of State has come, I will repeat as far as plagiarism is concerned. [[…]] So, it's not a plagiarism that we won't fight later on. Our proposal has a thousand 897 characters, and a thousand 297 characters have a government proposal, the one you have posted online. Ours is in the National Assembly, and yours is still waiting on the Internet or on the Internet up there. But it is true that the content is similar. The content and method of rescue are similar, since our proposal is one that is much broader. Which is a lot wider. And our proposal requires a co-signature to reject a criminal complaint and the government text on the website does not require that. And that's also an essential difference, so we're not going to be talking about plagiarism, because I'm going to call every time someone says that. So we're proposing this law – what? We want to protect the rights of those individuals who file a criminal complaint or are involved in a procedure where a criminal complaint is dropped. In fact, there is no one today who can verify this decision or anything like that. Our proposal speaks of the need for a co-signature of the superior before a final rejection of the criminal charge is made, to inform the injured person that there is more to be done. The government's proposal is narrower. The government proposal is narrower, it's a fact. The number of signs already tells you, in this government proposal. Secondly, the government proposal does not have a so-called co-signature, which, of course, ours has. Of course, there will be no debate as I heard yesterday, Mr Zorčič, there is no need for us to adopt one law and then another law. The Rules of Procedure allow the so-called hybrid, which means that the mother's working body throws both marriages at the table at the same time, treats them simultaneously and makes two laws into one law. So once again, call the Secretary of State and all of you not to talk about plagiarism because it's not plagiarism. I have proved to you by the number of signs and I call for a constructive debate as it was at the previous point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Dark Staret, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good greeting to all the Messengers, to the Messengers, to all those who are present! A group of first-signed members, Mr Tank, tabled a proposal for an amendment to the CAPN, which includes prior notification of a qualified informant and a injured person in the event of the dismissal of the complaint. The proposal is also addressed to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, on the procedure for deciding whether to dismiss the complaint and on the State Prosecutor's Office, which directs the police to inform the public in criminal proceedings. In its opinion, the Government expressed its principle of support and agreement with the proposed solutions, because they are in essence consistent with the objectives and purpose of the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act already drawn up by the government ministry, namely the Ministry of Justice, and is in the process of being adopted by the Government. Of course, we support these solutions, we have the same objective, the same purpose, but in the government proposal, as was already the case yesterday in the debate on the recommendation of the same parliamentary group or group of Members, this is regulated on a more comprehensive, more consistent basis, and in particular in this narrow part, as regards the rejection of complaints, it is more appropriate because, in addition to the other provisions that have been taken into account, the provisions that need to be decided on and applied in the rejection of the complaint are more consistent. The most important part, the content justifying that our proposal is more consistent and comprehensive, is conditioned by the fact that we are also implementing at the same time a directive on victims of crime, i.e. victims who very fully regulate procedural rights, as far as information is concerned, at the time of notification, reporting, informing about his rights, i.e. individual injured persons, injured persons, from the beginning of the procedure, his expectation of protection of the right to have a procedure and communication with state authorities throughout the triad, from the police, the prosecution to the court, carried out in an understandable manner, with advance information on the legal situation, his options, the rights of reimbursement and so on. Perhaps then, in the discussion below, there is even more content. In short, the matter is comprehensive, more consistent and, for this reason, it seems more appropriate to consider a proposal prepared by the Government or the Ministry of Justice. And that is the only reason why we do not support proposed solutions that are substantively the same or similar, and for this reason we do not support this proposed law in order to go separately into the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u40	Honourable Presidents, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues. In view of the fact that we discussed the proposal for a recommendation yesterday to establish effective legal protection in the event of the abolition of a criminal complaint, we can today only reiterate our position on the proposal for a new Criminal Procedure Act. This is a substantively similar proposal, with the difference that the proposal to supplement the law offers a concrete proposal, which we would expect from the Government. This opinion does not support the expected proposal. Why? Since the Ministry of Justice has already prepared its draft amendment to this law, which, in addition to the solutions proposed by the SDS proposal, should contain more comprehensive solutions. We are pleased, however, that the Government supports the direction in which today's decisions on the procedure for dealing with criminal charges are taking place. So let's do it again. From 2011 onwards, the Public Prosecutor's Act no longer permits testing of the decision of the State Prosecutor rejecting the criminal charge. It is said that despite the basic duty of the State prosecutor to initiate prosecution, the injured person as an applicant of the complaint remains without an effective remedy, as we know that the subsidiary prosecution, which remains the only available to the injured person after the dismissal, is not the most effective remedy. Without a doubt, the applicant should have the right, in this case, to be informed by the state prosecutor, who for any reason has decided to dismiss the complaint, before he is rejected. And then the injured person must be able to clearly define within a certain time limit the reasons why the prosecutor so decided. If this is not the case, we can see, in several cases, a superficial assessment, a disregard for individual irregularities in the process or even intentional delay that leads to an obsolescence. Since the majority of criminal charges have been dismissed for other reasons, i.e. not because of the delay, the withdrawal of the complaint or because of the low importance, the Prosecutor should carefully consider whether there is indeed sufficient evidence to substantiate the suspicion that the offence pursued under official duty has been committed. It is entirely human that someone who realizes that his decision will not be verified by anyone who will not be judged, makes it much easier to make a decision that may be at the expense of the complainant. If he had known in advance that in any event his decision would be subject to judicial judgment and that the injured person would be able to pronounce it, in many cases the prosecutor would have begun prosecution. Let us once again stress the impact on public confidence, professional and laziness, on justice. It is justified to criticise the too slow part of the specialised state prosecutor's office, which has promised that procedures on banking crime will be completed as soon as possible from the point of view of the jurisdiction of the state prosecutor's office, with a view to the submission of requests for investigations or direct indictments. Also, the implementation of a specialised state prosecutor's office in the area of confiscation of assets of illegal origin which does not move from a dead point. In view of the above, in the New Slovenia Group we will support the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u42	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The issue raised by the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act is, in our opinion, very important. Article 161 of the Criminal Procedure Act provides for the possibility and the right of a public prosecutor to dismiss an action, namely, if the charge itself indicates that the alleged offence is not an offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, if the prosecution is outdated or the act is related to amnesty or pardon, or if other circumstances which exclude the prosecution are provided, or if the suspect is not duly suspected of having committed the alleged crime, or if the disproportionateity between the minor significance of the criminal offence due to the low level of the perpetrator's guilt or because of his personal circumstances and the consequences of the prosecution would have occurred. In short, it is part of the jurisdiction of the State and also of the District Attorney to decide, in the event of certain circumstances, not to prosecute anyone. The definition of this Article also lays down what happens when such a decision occurs. This is that he has the opportunity to continue the prosecution of the so-called subsidiary prosecutor, an injured person who decides that he will take the case into his own hands instead of the district attorney or the state prosecutor and try to obtain a criminal conviction for the person he considers to have been subject to conditions and that he has committed any criminal offence to his detriment. It is, therefore, a kind of delimitation of the function of the State which is, in fact, primarily competent to prosecute offences and, on the other hand, the possibility of the injured person being entitled to do so himself, unless the State Prosecutor does so for the reasons set out in Article 161. The bill under consideration touches on cases where the injured person disagrees with the decision of the District Attorney. There is an explanation that the District Attorney has no control over himself, that there is only a blue sky over him. However, we need to know that in our legal order there are also other provisions that can be met by a state prosecutor who, hypothetically, would act intentionally, criminally in his decision, in order to abuse his rights and duties as an official. In view of the fact that several cases have already occurred in the past, which were also publicly resounding when the District Attorney withdrew from the prosecution, the Ministry in this regard – a decision has been made to amend the criminal procedure legislation to supplement this Article 161. The Criminal Procedure Act, which is the CAP-N, was first published in August 2016. This draft can still be found on the Ministry of Justice's website today. It was also possible to comment on the interested public by September 2016. It was also a law in public treatment. It is clear, however, that, and this is also the case with the Ministry of Justice's website, the law in interdepartmental coordination. So, the law on criminal procedure the government is amending, it has its own procedure. On the other hand, we have today at this point a proposal from the opposition, the SDS Group, to amend only one article in this same law. Our Group joins the view that the article proposed by the SDS Group is, in fact, a copy of what is on the Ministry of Justice's website to solve the same matter and the same matter that has already been resolved by the Ministry of Justice. In this light, we estimate that it is far more prudent that the procedure for the adoption of the CAP-N, which is already in the process, be carried out to the end without interfering with the amendment of the law that we have on the table today. So, even if we take into account certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the so-called hybrid procedure, on merger, we have no guarantee that the law proposed by the Government will reach our tables by the time of the decision on this law, and the duplication of these laws would mean unnecessary burdening of the same matter as the Government has done. That is why our parliamentary group will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I hope that, when we consider this proposal for a new Law on Criminal Procedure, which was put into the procedure by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also continue to receive this debate, which reigned in the spirit of the previous point. So it's content that matters, and it doesn't matter who's proposing it. The subject-matter additions to the Criminal Procedure Act and the completion of the Public Prosecutor's Act are proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party in order to establish appropriate safeguards for the establishment of legal protection in the event of the rejection of the complaint, thereby guaranteeing greater rights for the injured party or the complainants. Yesterday we have indeed discussed the same content, when we discussed it on a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party, our proposal, the proposal for a recommendation to establish effective legal protection in the event of the abolition of a criminal complaint, which we have proposed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in cooperation, this is very important, in cooperation with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, propose appropriate measures. At the same time, we have also proposed an appropriate measure, which is a proposal that we are considering at first reading today. These are recommendations that are related to today's proposal for a law. We will, of course, support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. This proposal seeks to regulate effective legal protection in the event of a criminal charge being dropped, which would also protect the injured person. It is known that, with regard to the decision of the judge, it is clear from the law that the right to judicial protection is guaranteed against any decision of the judge. The so-called Zalar State Prosecutor's Act, which was adopted in 2011, no longer permits such a test of the decision of the state prosecutors rejecting the criminal charge. And that is precisely the main reason why we have proposed this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The former Justice Minister Zalar then proposed the law and there was no legal coordination with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. This is also the second essential point I have outlined in the introduction, saying that it is about preparing, which is important, for cooperation with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. The proposal that we are considering today has also been referred to the debate by the representative of the Supreme Public Prosecutor, Aleš Butala, at the 26th meeting of the Justice Committee on 7 September 2016, when we discussed the proposal for a law on measures to establish public, transparency and accountability in the judiciary, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 5,000 voters and voters, I quote: "With regard to the wrong decisions of the state prosecutor – they can be double. First, to decide whether to prosecute when it shouldn't be, or when it doesn't decide to prosecute when it should be. In the first case, of course, the decision of the prosecutor is under trial of the court, of all stages of the court. But when the prosecutor decides not to start prosecution, then the matter can be completely different and, above all, covered. Although we do have this subsidiary prosecution, changes are now being prepared where a greater right should be given to the injured party or to the applicant of the complaint in the event of the dismissal of a criminal complaint. Of course, abuse, violations, these can be two concepts that are different. If I have previously referred to international acts in relation to the independence and independence of the Attorney General, I must also say that these same international instruments have consistently stressed that the Prosecutor or Public Prosecutor in what systems is the authority that respects and protects and protects human rights and fundamental freedoms. Of course, if abuse occurs, this would be the same as I mentioned earlier, the crime and such prosecutors should be duly sanctioned.” End of quote. It is also worth recalling that Aleš Butala also pointed out at the 2010 meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, when he said: "If we look at how this is regulated internationally, how European institutions deal with it. We probably know that in recent years Slovenia has been convicted twice before the European Court of Human Rights in Mother v Slovenia and Shilih v Slovenia. In both cases, Slovenia was found to be a violator of Article 2 — the right to life — and Article 3 — of the prohibition of the torture of the European Convention, because it did not ensure an effective investigation into these claims by the complainants. In these two judgments, the European Court of Justice is, "respectably, this part is extremely important, "said explicitly that the subsidiary prosecution, which goes to the injured person as the prosecutor, continues to prosecute or starts if the prosecutor rejects the complaint that it is not an effective remedy." End of quote. So, there are actually derogations here, and it's true that if we take a good look at this, it's only blue skies now over the state's attorneys. Unfortunately, as we did yesterday, we are witnessing the rejection of the proposal by the representative of the Ministry of Justice. Just like that. Well, the proposal will be rejected. Interesting. If we propose a general recommendation in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we receive a comment without content. However, if we propose concrete solutions such as this law, they say that we are interfering with the independence and independence of state prosecutors and at the same time proposing solutions that are not consistent and that this is even a copy-paste issue. I hope and expect the Secretary of State to apologize for these allegations today. Why? In the introduction to the presentation of the law, colleague Vinko Gorenak also made it clear where the differences were, and these differences are not so small. It is true, however, that all excuses come to the government rather than focus on the content together. And if this government were indeed a matter, if this ministry were indeed a matter, then, of course, there would be a procedure that is somehow set by the National Assembly, and there could be a hybrid solution. However, it is not of interest, because this national council should not really happen in order to confirm any proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party. That would be blasphemous, according to this coalition. I would like to point out that, with our proposal, we do not want to open the debate or interfere with the independence and independence of state prosecutors, but to draw attention to the issues which the representative of the High Prosecutor's Office pointed out at the 26th meeting of the Justice Committee last September. Since then, it's been, uh, half a year, and we haven't come to a solution. However, since we propose them, of course we must not let them go forward, because they come from the Slovenian Democratic Party. With the proposal in question, we propose the proper conduct of the Attorney General before dismissing the complaint filed by the Prosecutor under the Criminal Procedure Act. In such a way that the Public Prosecutor must inform the Prosecutor in writing of the intention to drop the complaint and explain the reasons for the decision in writing and at the same time allow him to be identified in writing within 30 days. Unlike, for example, the draft amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act proposed by the Ministry of Justice in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose that this decision should be co-signed by the Head of the competent District State Prosecutor's Office. So, the institute cosigns, meaning, as was the arrangement in the former State Attorney's Office Act. The same shall apply in cases where a criminal offence has been committed. We are thus proposing a broader and more concrete regulation of legal protection in the event of an appeal being dropped, thereby guaranteeing greater rights for the injured or the applicants of the complaint. We also propose that this should be settled in the Public Prosecutor's Act in a way that the decision of the State Prosecutor on the expulsion under the Criminal Procedure Act, the withdrawal from prosecution, the withdrawal of the complaint or the decision not to lodge a complaint, and the decision that the matter should be marked as a closed and duly archived, signed by the Head of the State Prosecutor or under his authority by another State Prosecutor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are proposing very concrete solutions for regulating the current situation, which is not good, which we have also been reminded of by the European Court of Justice, which I believe would bring about a substantial and good shift in the criminal procedure and in the functioning of the Supreme Prosecutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, Secretary of State, his colleague, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! After we have considered the proposal for a recommendation yesterday to establish effective legal protection in the event of the dismissal of a criminal complaint, we are now considering a proposal for a amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act submitted by the same applicants and also addressing the issue of the dismissal of a criminal complaint. As with the consideration of the recommendation, the applicants also point out in the draft law the shortcomings of the Public Prosecutor's Act, which no longer allows for further testing of the decision of the state prosecutors after they have decided to dismiss the criminal charge. Although the applicable Criminal Procedure Act provides that the State Prosecutor shall inform the injured person of the grounds for his decision, or if the complaint has been lodged by the State authority, then he shall also be obliged to inform him. After that, there is a possibility of subsidiary persecution. The applicants, however, wish to establish a guardian who would allow control over the decision of the state prosecutor to dismiss the criminal complaint, and therefore propose, inter alia, a supplement on the basis of which the state prosecutor will in some cases be obliged to inform the prosecutor in writing that he intends to dismiss the criminal complaint and to explain his decision. However, the applicant shall be given the opportunity to express his views on this within 30 days. This notice, which is sent to the accuser, should also be signed by the Head of the District Attorney's Office, following a proposal from the law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we support the efforts of proposers to improve the legal provisions that would in practice be reflected in a more qualitative treatment of criminal charges. However, we note that the Ministry of Justice has already drawn up a proposal for a new Criminal Procedure Act, which, in addition to the issue under consideration, fully addresses some other problems in the criminal proceedings. These solutions will contribute to better cooperation between law enforcement authorities and law enforcement authorities, to a faster and more efficient course of forecasting and criminal proceedings and to the rationalisation of the work of all the authorities conducting those procedures. The protection of the rights of defendants will also be strengthened. The drafting of the amendment also took into account the proposals made by interested judicial stakeholders and the recommendations made by the Ombudsman. In view of the fact that the applicants themselves in the material state that the Criminal Procedure Act has been amended 13 times by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we believe it is wise to wait for the government's proposal for a novel, which, as I have already said, brings other important solutions in addition to this problem to improve the criminal procedure. Given that the law is already professionally and intersectorally harmonised, we can expect it to be adopted at the Government and sent to the National Assembly at any time. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure is appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, again welcome to this intensively dynamic Friday session! One of the more important features of the year before the elections is that the confrontation between the opposition and the position is exacerbated and that the legislative process is also trying to show significant differences, the advantages of both. One of the ways to do this with least effort, at least for the opposition, is by the following timetable. The government is preparing a demanding proposal for an important and complex law, coordinating it with the professional public, holding a public debate, numerous coordination within the coalition with all key stakeholders and mediating it to public hearing. The opposition party, who decides that this area is important, for example, in the case of economic law, decides and takes the most appropriate part of this law and prepares from it a separate novelty, which addresses the minor problem in question, and, before the Government succeeds, because it is bound by a formal procedure for adoption, puts its more complex and broader law into legal proceedings in the National Assembly. Then it happens to us that we have on one side just before the hearing – as in the Criminal Procedure Act – because decision-making in the Government is far away, if I understand correctly, less than a month – at the same time a kind of extract of this law, which only refers to one segment. Instead of dealing with a more complex law and waiting for fourteen days, we are dealing with something that can be very attractive today, very simple and which can show that the opposition works for people, and the government is dealing with systemic legislation that will never be. The fact in this case is significantly different. The government has prepared an amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, it is an extremely complex and important law, and it also contains, in the essential part, everything proposed by the proposaler today. This is a different situation from that of, for example, the amendment of the Tourism Act, where we decided whether it was right or wrong that societies, schools and many non-governments had to use the services of tourist agencies for their excursions and professional excursions, and the government law was still far away and would not have caught the spring deadline for these trips. For example, we Social Democrats understood the intention of New Slovenia to make the law earlier, and we supported this law. This time, of course, the purpose is completely different. And when more than five reform laws on justice, quality assurance, efficiency and independence have been tabled and prepared, it is, of course, impossible to understand today's bill and yesterday's debate as in the context of the pre-election fight and the already-known methods of recall. Let me say here that, of course, I am pleased that the main opposition party in the proposals of the Government and the Ministry of Justice has also recognised something worth supporting, something that we can agree on. At least in relation to the largest opposition party and Minister Klemenčič, there were not many such messages in this meeting. We will, as has already been said, wait for these additional days, so that the law can be dealt with in full, without repeated unnecessary partial interventions in such an important law as the Criminal Procedure Act, because any such fragmentation still further affects vulnerability, non-transparentness and ultimately the inefficiency of the functioning of Slovenian justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again! At this meeting, we are twice addressing the issue of dropped criminal charges. Applicants first put forward a proposal for recommendations on this subject and then a proposal for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. They also requested a general discussion for both of them. Both proposals relate to cases where the Prosecutor of State dismisses a criminal complaint. On the basis of the proposed amendments, the Prosecutor would inform the Prosecutor before rejecting the complaint, who could have been identified by that intention. This would provide an additional guardian to test the decision of the State Prosecutor to dismiss the criminal charge. In these cases, however, there is a possibility of a subsidiary prosecution, which is in practice problematic and not the most effective remedy. In the United Left, we agree that this is a problem that needs attention and, of course, also to find solutions that will ensure effective legal protection for the victims and also effective prosecution of perpetrators. The Ministry, which has already drawn up its proposal for amendments, recognises that the regulation of this area is flawed and is under public scrutiny. However, we cannot agree with the very way or even more with the reasons why the proposer proposes such a change. At the annual level, good 18 000 criminal charges have been dropped in Slovenia. Thus, 18,000 victims, or prosecutors, are at annual level in the situation where their criminal charges are dismissed and they are left with not the most effective subsidiary prosecution. But don't worry about the applicants, at least that's what we think, all these 18,000 cases. They are particularly concerned by one, and this is the dismissed conviction of Ivan Janša against a Finnish journalist who, in his statements on the corruption affair of Patria, is to commit an offence of offensive accusation. Therefore, it is not important to have a general situation in this area, it does not matter what problems all the victims and other whistleblowers face in the scratch, it is important what problems it faces and, above all, it is necessary to ensure that it is adequately protected. In the United Left, this proposal is understood in this way. In this mandate, we have addressed many similar recommendations, proposals and these are based solely on some personal experience that the President of the SDS has with justice and law enforcement authorities. It is therefore rarely a matter of proposals that would be proposed for the proper protection of the rights of all, but it is more of a protection of the rights of one. As a result of this proposal for amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act in the United Left, we will not support it. We hope to discuss possible solutions to the issue of the rejection of criminal charges, which are not based solely on these problems of one person, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much. It's started to be relatively encouraging. At least today. However, some of you have continued in the style that will lead me to spend half an hour and the hour that the delegation has. But because of the attitudes that are rude. Otherwise, we could have ended this point a long time earlier. A long time ago. All I have to do is thank Mrs. Popotat for this package. She announced support for the law. Unless she got the wrong message from her, I don't know. But for now, thank you so much for supporting the marriage, that's what you said. Mr. Zorčič has to say - what? You say the prosecutor isn't just God and the blue sky. Tell me what's going on with the D.A. You say there are some other things. Yeah, of course, if the D.A. commits a crime, they're already dealing with it. If you do. Whatever. But with regard to the prosecution's decision to drop the prosecution's criminal charges, there's nothing. But if there's anything, tell me what it is. Yesterday you talked a lot about copy-paste. Well, that's what Mr. Zorčič fixed for a copy today. I don't know how it could be if it was a copy, how it could then be in the original, it's yours, yours would be the original, a thousand 297 words, and then you put it in the photocopying machine, and on those sides a thousand 897 words fall out. How can this be a copy? Could that be a copy? Unless you invented some special machine. That's possible now. But as I know the physical functioning of copiers, that's the situation. If I let this photocopy, there's a copy on the other side, the picture falls out. And there can't be a thousand 897 words on that side. It is true, however, that we are considering similar content. That's right. That's right. Thank you, Mrs. Popovat. But if you've read the wrong reminder, then correct it. But for now, thank you for supporting the marriage. You said, Mr. Skoberne, it's also striking, as it's called, that it's a kind of extract because you didn't dare say it's copy-paste. Okay. Because it is not, because you are right, the copy is not, as Mr Zorčič says. It's a kind of extract. I don't know if it's exactly a kind of extract. And you said that the government has some long procedure to give through, but I don't know what it is, and we can quickly file a marriage. This is true in principle, but we have been talking about this since the year – I have been talking to you since 2014. Since 2011, I have also talked to some, but only others have sat here. That's the problem. In addition, we have discussed this on various occasions since 2014 in this mandate. And Mr Aleš Butala has warned many times, not just the last time we spoke at some point in the agenda, that this is a problem. Yeah, that's the problem. Now, if you are solving only this problem with a little less text than we are, you are also adding that text, which is that European regulation or what is already being implemented here, does not mean that there is some terrible excess of law that could not be done in a relatively short time. That's not true. Now let's keep going. Mr. Zorčič explained that there is no possible hybrid. See, if it were to be written in 2007, and the situation is the same as it is now that the opposition introduces a law, and the government is preparing a different solution, as it is now, then the Secretary of State would be responsible for the relationship with Parliament. That was me back then. And I would go to then Justice Minister Sturm and say, listen, hurry up with this law, so that we can come together in Parliament and make a hybrid. I would most likely agree with the President of the National Assembly to come to a joint meeting, in short, that these two marriages should mate, as they are called, and move on as a hybrid. See, that's what I'd do then. But in this government, I mean with you, I don't know if you have that State Secretary for Relations with Parliament or not. What else is there up there in the cabinet, that's for sure, and that would be useful. And if I took something like that away, a hybrid would, of course, be possible. As for Mr Vatovec, well, this is now an ideology, probably the reason for such an act as we have seen it. We do not expose Mr Janša's case and this story has nothing to do with Mr Janša. But it is true that in the year two thousand, I think 2010, something like this was, could it also have been 2009, 2010 I will say when a criminal charge was brought against Berglund in New City against that journalist of Finnish public television – did something happen? The New City prosecutor has examined this act and has decided. “We throw away because we are not locally competent,” she said. Those who have passed one exam in law school, you know for sure that because of local indiscretion, they cannot be dismissed, but can withdraw from the prosecution's opinion. And that's when it happened — what? Since the old law was in force, the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office, led by Mrs Barbara Brezigar at the time, made it clear in New City that there was no rejection, that it was a professional error and that it should withdraw the case to Ljubljana if it thought that Ljubljana was locally competent. That's all that's in there. That's all. And that's a typical specimen. Because look, now, now we have another situation. If such a situation were to happen now, Mr Fisher cannot react. He can't react, actually. The Chief of Public Prosecutions must not react if this happens today. And such a prosecutorial decision, which is essentially a professional error, would be enforced. That is why this case is cited. And the matter has nothing to do with the case as such and even less with the President of the party. This has to be explained to him, but apparently I don't know now, I don't know how you have the other parliamentary groups. Is everything really done by your professional associates or what? Was there anything read here that was written by some biting expert, a pardon, a coworker? I don't know. I don't know what happened. But that's certainly not the point of the law we have on the agenda, and it has nothing to do with the rejection in the New City I was talking about. For now, I have enough time to take if the debate goes in a direction that is not right for me to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I'll give the word to Mr. Jan Schobernet. Allow me, however, to read those still on the list for discussion: Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mr. Jan Schoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I didn't know it was so crowded today, but apparently Friday does. Nevertheless, Dr. Gorenak, in the introduction, allow me to explain that I do not feel any need to shorten my time, because I appreciate your opinions and appreciate your performances like everyone else here, and no fear, we will also accept the fact that you spend all your time, because the debate on the subject that we are discussing today is not irrelevant. If the time available was too much for the subject to be addressed, we can also discuss other key and important issues in the field of justice. However, at the end of the day, today's session is intended in its own nature. What is most important in this point is that the change in this discretion of the prosecutor in this point is, of course, necessary. The purpose of the government has been expressed here repeatedly, publicly presented, and not only that the government could come to the National Assembly earlier with such a proposal. The fact is that it is not a simple matter and that even when we talk about the issue of judicial regulation, Slovenia often sees no uniform solutions. If, on the one hand, we take only that there are civil initiatives, committees, and I do not know what else occurs by name, which usually have diametrically opposite positions from the Government, from the positions of the profession, mainly from the positions of an independent branch of power, and of course will be on this side in the role of the ministry, which, among all these diametrically opposed desires and positions, must seek a smart solution, which will eventually, if possible, also here in this national council, support not only coalition, but also opposition parties, either left or right, is a demanding project. And it is important that yesterday's debates, and today's coming ones, not only take place in the individual law that comes from the Ministry of Justice, but look at the entire list that we are addressing and will be addressing in this first third or first half of the parliamentary year. We are actually experiencing an important and fundamental reform of justice. It started with a very important Law on Justice, and today, for example, we will continue with the Law on State Lawyerry. And when we look at this outside just the relevant agenda item, we see that the government is actually addressing areas that are so systematic and in such a comprehensive way that it has not actually been engaged in any of the choir's convocations, except those self-sustaining ones that have been significantly more specific. So in this context, an apology from me, Dr. Gorenak, if you've taken my opening statement as succinct. She did not want to be like this, but I wanted to point out that in practice, not necessarily yours, so I specifically highlighted the New Slovenia Tourism Act, that certain solutions that the Government has been preparing for a long period of time precisely because of their complexity and the desire to comply with all stakeholders and users, are then brought to the table as partial solutions, which, as such, also disrupts the regulation, the predictability of the normative framework itself that we have in this country, and this is of course also important for the very effectiveness of the functioning of our country. Even so, of course, we will also support the spirit of this solution, which is in the government's proposal. However, we do not want, as has already been said, partial interventions, which are more or less intended simply to show a narcissistic framework of small and in fact slightly less important differences, because we believe that the framework, which the Government is at least in this case, in the case of a reform of justice, is already good, and I want to look at the possibility of consensus and joint support from both sides of this circle. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you, President, for your word. I am pleased that this proposal has convinced us or that at least the party Desus has seen that it brings concrete solutions, good solutions and that this proposal should be considered an opportunity to proceed further. For the fact is, and here I will also return to this copy-paste or copying or whatever it is that it is, you know, not only pure stupidity, but in some ways irresponsible and very humiliating to us in the Slovenian Democratic Party as the proponent and drafter of this proposal. The fact is that there are differences, the fact is that some things are the same, but they are the same because we see things the same, not because they are copy-paste. Because then, your honor, let's all give our diplomas back, because there's so many copy-past articles or some quotes that were the basis for the preparation of our diplomas, that then the whole thing is so corny that no one does anything on their own. That's bullshit. This is not some added value to the debate that should have been. It's a fact, but you know it's a difference, and Comrade Gorenak even listed it in numbers, but it's not ballast in there. There are concrete solutions that are in our proposal, while, for example, we do not find them in the Government's proposal. One of these is certainly the so-called co-signature of the Head of the competent District Attorney's Office. Then, of course, when this decision is made and the necessary signature is obtained by a senior or his deputy. I think there are things in here that are different, that make sense, and it's certainly inappropriate for you to try these things now, I'll say, to discourage them in this way. Now, so do I. You know, if it were true that, when it comes to dismissing cases, there would be some further distance, then there would not be such a record of the European Court of Justice. The European Court of Justice has explicitly stated that this case is not well settled. And if we read in lines, it's about the fact that in our legislation right now, when it comes primarily to throwing things away, it's just the blue sky. Just the blue sky. For some other measures are, of course, inappropriate in that part. The solutions that are supposed to be are also said when we talk about the so-called subsidiary persecution and so on, they are not appropriate. That was said. Of course, I don't want to repeat what I said earlier in my position. Yesterday there was also this debate, and I was of course very, I will say, positively surprised at Mr Igor Zorčič's debate, which today, of course, turned things around a little. One day it was in the middle, and probably things aren't that simple if you start to highlight some things that are good, but of course you shouldn't say it out loud. The sparks in his eyes and the views between Minister and Mr Igor must have done their part, but he did point out something crucial. That we have to work things out. Here I allow him to have absolutely thought that it was only a regulation based on the law which, of course, was put into procedure by the Government in the procedure it has. But as we say, in our proposal, we are adding some other measures, which I do not think are just for rejecting and then not giving the law this option. It is also true that it would be true to include a little more cooperation in this national assembly when we are talking about some of the heavier materials. As was the case at the time of the government of Janez Janša, when we actually had a coordinator who worked with the opposition and, of course, tried to bring things closer together, to find better solutions. Acting on the system, as this government has chosen, to virtually throw away everything the opposition proposes, and most importantly, if the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes – see, it can be a personal vendetta or whatever, but it is not for the good of the people. Not for the good of this country. Even for the good of this country. That is why I am so much more pleased with the fact that Desus has only looked at matters in substance and has not given any consideration to who the proposer is. I'd also like to mention that it hasn't happened since yesterday. The fact is, I quoted Mr Aleš Butalo earlier when he had warned about this problem years ago. That is why it will be difficult to say that the government has really rushed and has made a law very quickly, knowing that things have been going on for quite some time. In short, in view of yesterday's debate – today, of course, this debate will practically not – I see and regret that again and again to reject some proposals is just who is the proposer, who was the first, who was the second, instead of dealing with whether we can come up with better solutions together. However, the government may also consider the things in this bill, perhaps summarizing them, and may propose even better solutions if it finds them, rather than simply rejecting them. That seems like a much worse option to me. Finally, I would expect that all the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party who assisted in the drafting of this law should be excused by the legislating, Mr Gorenak, and all the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party who assisted in the drafting of this law. The ones you said were copy-paste. For it is not that you say this to Members, we are accustomed to many things, we bear much, I cannot bear it, but personally, I cannot bear it, and I will not allow all those who have participated in such an act to be discredited. This is irresponsible and this is not conduct, at least not some serious party, if you are indeed coming to the National Assembly as the largest party, the parties to the highest responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs Kotnik Poropat, I can't give you my word because you haven't discussed and there's no replica. But then you can contact me when you're sharing time. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's my quick turn. What I miss about this law, I also mentioned yesterday, is that we would somehow define ourselves in some way, let's say, as far as possible, given that we are in the National Assembly, the professional sense of the solutions it carries. Mr Gorenak, don't mind me, I insist that these two solutions are very similar if I say so. True, you still have a change to the State Prosecutor's Act, and maybe one or two more words here, but the solution is the same. And don't mind us – it's not just you, it's also flying to New Slovenia, which had a similar proposal for a solution – if we decide on the laws that we already have in some procedure, they haven't come to the National Assembly yet, so that we don't adopt laws that are proposed with the same content of the opposition. I think that at the end of the day it is also our responsibility not to overburden ourselves with the same content, because, however, after the procedure itself, each of these matters that are important, in turn, can be defined. And our decision not to support this law goes in this direction. The problem it solves has often proved to be in a variety of public reverberations. The D.A. decided to drop the charges somewhere. I am particularly intrigued in this respect by this distinction between the function of a State which actually has the primary function of prosecuting perpetrators of crimes and, on the other hand, injured persons who have the possibility, let's say, a legal remedy that, in cases where the District Attorney decides not to pursue prosecution of a crime, they will take its place. My debate goes like yesterday in this regard in the direction that the solution must be such that, as far as it can prevent the situation where the injured person has to take over the persecution, because he will never be in the same position as the District Attorney with the entire apparatus of the state, especially with the police and with all the information available to him, and it is a matter of when there is a subsidiary prosecution, in fact some kind of ultimio of race of this, let's say, control. When we identify ourselves to the solutions already presented in the amendment of the law or if you want to in the draft law that we have on the table, it is possible to think correctly in this direction, how much is affected by the decision of the state prosecutor, who is ultimately an independent official, by giving his superior a co-signature to his decision. I don't think this solution is that bad, maybe there's another solution to it. However, in these cases, there may also be such conflicts that would cause the institute itself to be, let us say, a control contrary to the independence of the District Attorney. I'm at this stage right now, until we have a better solution, I agree with that, and I think it's better than the one that exists. So that someone else will sign, and if you want, someone else will take responsibility for the decision to stop the prosecution. This may also lead to the fact that the injured will be less subject to some fact and circumstances, that they have to take on what is essentially the task of the State. As far as that article of the bill amending the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office is concerned. I'm not personally agreeing that in one marriage other laws change by the example of the infamous ZUJF. The applicant states that in Article 169 of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, a new fourth paragraph would be added after the third paragraph, namely that the decision to dismiss under the Criminal Procedure Act, the withdrawal of prosecution, the withdrawal of a complaint or the decision not to lodge a complaint, and the decision to declare the case as solved and archived, shall also be signed by the Head of the State Prosecutor or, under his authority, by another State Prosecutor. Such a solution is somehow already contained in this provision of Article 161 of the CAP, not exactly the same, but also this one, I will say, with the amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which, while we have heard that it offers certain options in this direction, may not be bad in this respect, that some of the duties and rights which, as regards the organisation of work in the District Attorney's Office, are generally defined to be more concrete in a similar sense to that of the case in Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which they will receive the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Here you are, Mr. Darko Stare, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that it is a unique opportunity for us to be really focused on the content, and in this context I would just like to stress this once again, it is also clear from the opinion of the Government, in which case we as the Government do not reject the proposed solutions with this novel. The only difference is that we reject the path, the procedure. We propose that this should be addressed by the CAP, which is proposed by the Government, which regulates this area in its entirety. That's one aspect. In short, we have a similar objective and a similar solution, in fact. As far as the pace of action is concerned, it is clear and clearly publicly known that this government law has been in public debate since August of last year. And our efforts and goal, including through the normative programme, were to bring this law through the government procedure and into the esteemed parliament by the end of last year. The reasons why we failed are different. But I could basically call them narrowly by the efforts of the government and the ministry to reach as much agreement as possible with stakeholders, particularly the builders of the judiciary, who will then have to implement these provisions within their respective functions. And one of these stakeholders, of course, is the State Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have established the provisions of the current annulment, have been decisive and all of this has been remedied. Therefore, we also implement the Constitutional Court's decisions on the subject of house investigations, in lawyers' offices, regarding the possibility of bringing detainees to the Supreme Court, i.e. effective remedies and so on, not to mention. It is, unfortunately, that I must conclude that it is precisely with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office at this point, which is the subject of this proposed amendment, even from your group of Members, that we have not reached agreement. I think that's public knowledge. The Attorney-General also opposes this because he sees this as an interference with the independence of state prosecutors. Of course, we are convinced that this is not the case, because of this in concern for improving the legal situation and legal security of the injured, we are also doing this at this stage in practice in the same way as you are proposing. I would also like to point out that in the debates on the individual committees of this esteemed National Assembly – I am thinking now of one debate on the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations on the Human Rights Committee led by Mrs Irgle – we have also discussed this subject at the beginning of last year because the Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out that this protection is not adequate. And even then, on the government side, we expressed the expectation of support, especially the political one we can feel here today. And I believe that these proposed solutions will then be supported in the parliamentary procedure. Unfortunately, as it is said, the U.S. Attorney's Office disagrees with this solution. It is true that we have also considered various forms that allow for a better and strengthened legal position of the injured, such as the solutions, I do not know, in Germany, Austria or elsewhere, which are in fact the same as in the past before this applicable CAP, which is with us. This is an internal review of the professionality and legality of the decisions of the first-degree prosecutor. However, this has been changed in the past and we must now respect and build further in the context of this regime. It is true, however, that, from a constitutional point of view, the position of our prosecutor is slightly different and not entirely and completely comparable to that of the Institute, namely the State Prosecutor's Office, with other legal arrangements in the European area. From this point of view, I would like to point out that this is actually the same objective, and we have recognised the same tool as possible that the situation is improving, but the path is different. And, of course, I look forward to this political support that I have understood today has been expressed here, and I believe that we will be able to implement the matter as soon as possible. However, the fact is that this coordination is also concluded, inter-sectorally, and the proposal for a law has already been introduced into the procedure for adoption in the Government. So we are counting that, if not next week, in the week following next week, this should be dealt with by the Government and I believe that it will also be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u62	Perhaps I will ask you, if you allow Mrs Popot to do business in some way, it can also use my time to say again what she has already said. And I thank you once again for her support. But if she says anything else, I don't know. [[…]] I'll be brief, too, even though time allows us quite some time. The Secretary of State, if Mr Fisher objects, is a good solution, which is to put it into law. That's 100%. As soon as he's against it, then put it into law because you're right. And I assure you, we will support this. I will conclude the debate on this point. Also for the reason that Mr Zorčič is beautiful, from the copy-past came to a photocopy, and now to a similar solution. Well, you see, we're fine here now, but there's a similar solution. So fine, how you've progressed, and I think it's right and nice. And what I said before is that you're a little bit nimble, because I'm a little bit bit bit bity, too, so you don't have to do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We have some time left, so if there is any other desire to discuss it, please sign in. This also applies to the representative of the Government. Please sign up. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I wanted to refer earlier to Mrs Anji Bah Žibert's esteemed colleague and, of course, also Dr Gorenak, but I could not because I had not discussed it. That is why I will now take this opportunity to say that I seem to have been misunderstood by the proposaler and also by the honourable Mrs Anja. In my presentation of the opinion or position of the Group of Members, I said that in Desus, we support the efforts of the proposalers to improve the legal provisions that would in practice be reflected in a more qualitative treatment of criminal charges. However, I also said that we are warning in Desus that the Ministry of Justice has already prepared a proposal for a amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which, in addition to the issue under consideration, solves in its entirety certain other problems in the criminal proceedings. This amendment to the law is already ready, it goes to the government as soon as possible and then we get this law to the National Assembly, and as I said, this law also solves other problems that are needed to amend the criminal procedure. So that there would be no wrong opinion or public opinion that we now really support or vote in favour of this law. Because I finally said that in the Desus Group we would not support voting against the conclusion that the proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act is appropriate for further consideration. Of course, we recognize the proposaler that what he has proposed needs to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Here you go, proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u66	I'm sorry I didn't find Mrs Popot, if you're mistaken, say, I was wrong, because that's okay. [[…]] We're all wrong. We're all wrong, and so are you. At the end of the day, you said we'd support the bill. That comes out of a magnetogram. But if you have made a mistake, it is so human that you do see, and at our age it is even more justifiable — is it not? [[…]] But you know. And there's no point in fixing it. But I'm sorry you won't back me up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm avoiding myself, but the magnetogram says Desus is against it, but let's leave it. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I read it? [[advertising from the hall]] That's good. Good. I conclude the general debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, procedurally, Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. You're in charge of the session. You're not a lawyer here. The fact is that something has been said, Mrs Popotat said that, I understood that the law supports it. You know, but it's always hard for those who talk and others to work. Of course, everyone, even a child in kindergarten, will be most confused when he gets it or they will tell him something, and then those who report it will do something completely different. So Desus is back on the old trail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u69	I, Mrs. Anja Bah Gibert, just read the magnetogram. I had no intention of going into any serious controversy around Good, I am concluding a general debate. [[…]] On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I'm putting an end to the 13th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a state's attorney's law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Dark Staret. [[advertising from the hall]] Good. There's no government representative. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, please, sir, Jan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u70	Mr Vice-President, it is not the first time that it has happened that someone on the part of the Government is late, but I think that this is a first debate and a general debate on an extremely important law and, if possible, I propose a ten-minute suspension of the meeting that the Minister may, however, present a law that will substantially change an area that has not been regulated since 1997. And I think it would be right for the government to have the opportunity to present. Otherwise, we will also be able to succeed members of the coalition groups, but if I understand correctly, the Minister is on his way and a ten-minute transfer would allow us to carry out the procedure properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u71	I'm not gonna do this because it's not the first time, and it could become a habit. Mag. Dušan Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! In the system of division of power, the defence shall be classified as a legislative, judicial and enforcement branch of the executive branch. Under the current regime, the State Defence is a representative of the Republic of Slovenia and some other entities, and the aim of all powers of the State Defence is to realize and protect the property rights and interests of the State. We are aware that the number of disputes with the State has increased, and this has led to the institution being recast. The functions of the State Defence Office, which are representative, advisory, negotiating and institutional, are not carried out in the most appropriate relationship and therefore welcome solutions that will place greater emphasis on both the advisory function and the negotiating function, which would lead to the prevention of certain conflict situations. If we compare the organisation of the defence by country, we find that it is different and it is extremely difficult to compare it, but often a certain type of organisation is due to the historical development of justice in each country. The proposer decided to introduce a new concept, namely the State's defence, by means of a proposal for a law, and would act as a special state body. We agree with the purpose and objectives of the bill in order to contribute to a more appropriate and effective functioning of the defence. This is particularly true of the advisory function that will strengthen, the greater responsibility of lawyers, cooperation between competent authorities and individuals, and so on. The draft law eliminates most of the problems that have been detected in the work of the State Defence Office so far. Two issues have been highlighted in the previous expert and political debate, namely the organisation of state lawyers and the status of so-called lawyers. The proposal foresees that the State's defence would become a special public authority and that the state's attorneys would be public officials, with the exception of the Attorney General and his deputy, who would remain an official. In doing so, it can be concluded that the comparative arrangements offer us different solutions, including those provided for in the proposal for a law. From this point of view, our arrangements would not stand out or set out specifics. Of course, we also know the arrangements that are comparable to the current regulation of state defenders. It is not possible to provide a single reply to this question and it is therefore necessary to examine and assess which of the two systems of the organisation of state defence and the position of its lawyers would be more appropriate and more appropriate for our national defences. The choice of the most appropriate model must be based not only on our experience and good practices, but also on the aims and objectives that we want to achieve through this bill. In the Party of the Modern Centre of the Member and Members, we believe that the proposal for a State's Attorney's Law is appropriate for further consideration in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we are talking about the state's defence or the new state's defence, it must be based on the important fact that the State's defence attorney or the state's attorney is not only a state's lawyer, that he always attaches and always advocates her thesis, but, in the first place, defends the law. The Ombudsman is responsible for protecting the public interest and is above the sole interests of the State as a legal entity in legal traffic. It is also an important task for the State to advise on the conduct in accordance with the rules to prevent conflicts in the future. The State also draws attention to its wrong views, which could generate additional or new disputes, act as a settlement function so that disputes do not get exacerbated and are resolved in a calm, non-judicial way, if that can happen. If we narrow it down, we can say that the defence is also an institution that protects the budgetary resources or assets of all taxpayers. In fact, the proposal for a law on state law, which was tabled by the Government, is a teaching case in which legislation should not be amended in this country. The fact is that, on this proposal, the professional public has given a negative opinion on the substantive changes. The warnings coming from the State's defence or from the state's attorneys are concrete and reflect the weaknesses and shortcomings of the proposed solutions. Clearly, the founders of this law, the Ministry of Justice, did not want to take enough time to close or close the key differences. It would therefore be appropriate to consider the public debate on this proposal for a law on state defence and thus allow the professional public to participate in the debate on all proposed solutions and not just some of what has happened so far. In short, there have been no major proposals for solutions to this broader debate. Let me therefore point out the key concerns that come from the professional public. Firstly, the proposed government law intervenes in the name itself. It removes the name of the defence and introduces the name of the State's defence, although it does not give any real explanation for this change to justify the need for such changes. The argument to change the name to establish a new special authority in order to ensure the best possible functioning of the defence is fundamentally wrong. The State's defence is already a special and, above all, a separate judicial body, so the state's regulation of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of jurisdiction and the functioning of the State's defence does not need any establishment of a new special state authority, as it already exists. However, it is the duty of the State to take care of the basics and the necessary conditions so that that authority may act smoothly. Nor will the change of name and by definition be able to ensure that the best possible options for the functioning of the State defence, in particular neither the expertise nor the quality of work are met when the number of cases is increased. This can only be achieved through a larger number of jobs needed. Finally, the institute of overtime and increased long-term work due to excessive exposure, the burden of individuals acting counterproductively both to professionalism and to the quality of work. Nor should we neglect human resources spending due to overcrowding. The expertise and quality of the work of the national authority at systemic level can only be ensured through the appropriate autonomy of the State authority and, in particular, by duly prescribed conditions for urbanisation without the pressure of the interest groups. All of this is not guaranteed by this proposal of the law. On the contrary. The solutions proposed are totally destructive to the organisation and, in particular, to the professional exercise of the powers of state defence. The change of name results in the urgent change of writing tables, stamps, websites, business cards, etc. including immediate unnecessary and unjustified financial consequences. That was the first argument. Second argument. According to the professional public, this law abolishes the state's attorney as a function or official. The proposal for a law on the competence of work powers, obligations and responsibilities is written in such a way as to refer to a judicial officer of the state's defence attorney. On the other hand, the status of public defenders is withdrawn. In the opinion of the professional public, this is a key systemic illogicality of the proposed law. The public interest in the proceedings may only be protected by a public defender as an official acting as an agent of public interest and not by an entity. When the Ombudsman acts as the State's representative, the State's defence attorney shall personalise the state and shall not and shall not be extended. The Ombudsman should remain an independent expert, who must form and express the will of the State in judicial and administrative proceedings in accordance with law, so that the rule of law can be protected and strengthened. However, if the Ministry of Justice and the Government considers that only some officials are needed, who will always follow the instructions and interests of the State until the end of all proceedings, regardless of whether they are justified in law or not, they obviously do not need state lawyers, because they can hire lawyers for this. At this point the key question is: is it perhaps the minister’s key interest to continue doing so from now on only by lawyers and lawyers? Maybe. The Ombudsman must not only become an officer but must also remain the so-called conscience of the State. It must also guide the country along the path of law and alert it to any negative decisions that need to be remedied. However, if the State's defence attorneys really want to be included in the public servants' system, then the envisaged legislation should not contain any features of the functional system. So, on the one hand, we get public servants, and on the other hand, these public servants have a mandate. Or it's the other way around, and I'm going to be able to further substantiate that. Why? For the law is written in such a way as to be a law-enforcement officer. That's the problem. You can't just place this status among public servants. If I use the nicest term for the above-mentioned work or the consequent state of affairs, there is a pure confusion that raises a major question about the normal functioning of the defence system in the future. The third essential argument. It is the actual abolition of the autonomy of the State's defence. In order to enable the Ombudsman to exercise all powers of substance, the body in which he operates must be independent and autonomous, and the actual autonomy and autonomy of the State’s defence, despite the general provision which it is intended to provide, is fully excluded in the proposal for a law. For independence and autonomy are always only as much as the law itself grants it. In fact, this law abolishes all those essential building blocks of autonomy. Let's nanize some facts. Firstly, state lawyers are becoming new public servants who cannot be holders of powers and official powers. Secondly, the work of the State's defence and state attorneys is supervised by the Ministry of Justice. Thirdly, the local jurisdiction of the external departments will no longer be the legal matter, but will be determined by the Minister of Justice by means of a sub-legislative act. Next time. The performance of tasks on the grounds of the prudence or better competence of the Head of State's Attorney shall be determined by the Advocate General only after the prior consent of the Minister. In the new light, the President will not be able to decide on his own or to provide for a smooth working process. Next time. The Government may, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Justice, provide mandatory guidance for the future work of the State's defence, which is a key direct substantive intervention in the independence and expertise of the state's defence and an open field of political influence. Next time. The Attorney-General may be anyone who fulfils the conditions laid down by law for a higher judge and not just a candidate from state lawyers, i.e. the first one of the same as usual in the judiciary. Such a solution also directly enables political recruitment. Next time. The regulations governing the operation of the State's Attorney's Office shall be adopted by the Minister. Such a provision is also quite unusual for some kind of administrative body, in which state-laws will be degraded under this proposal. Law enforcement rules are adopted at the level of government and such an additional sub-legislative regulation is still at a lower level, so the level of the Ministry further points to the submission of state defence to the Minister. According to the new number of trainee posts, the Minister will determine for himself. That the measure is truly full, respected, the form and manner of wearing the official clothing will also be determined by the minister. Without any consent or opinion from the Attorney General. In short, it is a number of changes that clearly and unequivocally show that the law in question is about effectively abolishing the autonomy of the State's defence and giving in to the Minister, politically, functionally. Colleagues and colleagues! I have brought down only a few facts that indicate that this proposal for a law of professional disagreement is large and that warnings indicate that there may be serious problems with the functioning of the defence authority. Trust in justice is directly weakening and does not strengthen by abolishing one of its three judicial functions. What are, for example, prosecutors in criminal matters are state lawyers in the remaining areas of law, civil, economic, unfair, labour law and social law, bankruptcy, enforcement and administrative. The adoption of laws by principle through the wall has never been paid and neither has the effect. This time, your honor, it won't be any different. Therefore, we do not intend to support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let us, however, allow the possibility that it will also be upgraded and repaired in the next procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Ambassador of Desus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members and Members! Today, we have a proposal for a law on Parliamentary Affairs that transforms the state's defence into a state's attorney. Unlike previous amendments and additions, this time it is a more fundamental act, since it is a completely new law which, in addition to some of the relevant existing provisions, introduces a number of innovations. That the existing system is outdated and expectations today are different, media-disciplined cases, such as the late action in the Ormož Sugar Factory case, also show. We could rightly say that it is precisely because of the lack of control mechanisms over the functioning of the state defence against the shoulders of citizens and citizens that several million euros have fallen. The fact is that the bill is most opposed by the right attorneys themselves. The law changes their status because after the new 60 lawyers will no longer be officials, but will be public servants. The only exceptions are the Attorney General and both his deputies. In the Desus Group, we are confident that this change will prevent possible political recruitment, as today's attorneys are called by the Government itself. It is worth recalling that some attorneys were appointed at the last government meetings. At the loss of millions of taxpayers’ money, it is incomprehensible how no one is responsible for such consequences. Moreover, it seems even as if the defence attorneys in their position are completely untouchable. The fact is, in recent years, ten judges and state prosecutors have lost their jobs due to disciplinary procedures, while this number remains at zero with lawyers. Despite many disagreements between the Minister of Justice and the Advocates, the Minister has only listened to the latter in some of the amendments. Thus, there are no more provisions in the proposal for a law that we are considering, which would make the State's defence a body within the judiciary. According to the proposal, it is a completely independent body. The proposal also no longer allows the representation of the State by different legal offices. The key opposition to the proposal remains due to the status itself. As public servants, lawyers will become state lawyers, and I must stress that they will also keep the salary class achieved. They will not be named by the Government, but they will be able to apply for invitations under public servants' rules. And most importantly, their suitability will be decided by a special expert commission. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we certainly support this change. According to the bill, state lawyers will thus have more responsibility, more responsibility and not least greater transparency of work. I am sure that everyone in this Chamber wants Slovenia to be more successful in the lawsuits. However, past experience has shown that such success also requires a recast of the defence system. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the decision that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u77	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u78	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the proposal for a state's defence law is the first serious change in the system to date and until the final adoption of this law, I hope, after 1997 the state's defence. This is a very long period in which the world, as well as the legal framework in which the Republic of Slovenia participates both within international ties and in economic terms, has changed significantly. If we take as a basic framework and comparison only the development of the institutions and the acquis of the European Union between 1997 and 2017, we find that this is a major change and that the circumstances that were in force 20 years ago are no longer applicable or are amended to this extent, and that our adaptation is also necessary. It has been demonstrated through the functioning of the State Defence Office that in many ways it has been successful in carrying out its mission, but in recent years it has been possible to detect a lower efficiency than expected, higher degree of difficulty and failure with a significant impact both on public interest and on the public budget and thus on all citizens and citizens. The likeness of the world in which we lived in 1997 and today is also very different because the framework of action is no longer determined by the countries, the international institutions, but in a significant part also by international agreements such as free trade agreements, the infamous TTIP, for example, and CETA, which the European Parliament voted on days ago, and which is still waiting for us in the National Assembly. It is also happening that the important battles of the Republic of Slovenia, on behalf of its citizens and citizens, are also being fought within an institution whose members we have become with the aim and with the belief that in a legal framework to regulate all relations in a fair and transparent manner, this is within the European Union. In the event of non-compliance with European Union legislation by the European Commission called for the guardian of the same legal order, in the case of the protection of the geographical origin of the Slovenian territory, we can find that we must prepare ourselves for substantially changed circumstances and that we must also find ways within our institutions to increase the dynamics, facilitate adjustment and respond more quickly to the different framework in which we are placed. Part of these adjustments is also an important reform law that brings state lawyers. It brings, and this is extremely important, because even through the presentations made by some of the positions of the groups of Members, it may seem that we are not talking about the same version of this law, the independent body of the State's Attorney, which is still governed by officials, namely the Attorney General and his deputy. We are getting a state's attorney who will be more subject to both supervision for the work done and control over the effectiveness of the latter's performance. We will get a state's attorney, where it will be clearly defined who deals with international disputes, who deals with disputes in the courts of other countries, who specializes in what is the subject of international agreements and institutions established by an international agreement, and who and in what way still follows a related model, as is already the case today, the interest of the Republic of Slovenia is represented before foreign courts. There have been many discussions on what this law actually brings, what it takes, and what its final effect will be. In fact, this is mainly the result of the fear that he has found in his bra that nothing changes, that status quo is maintained and that, as in one of the two countries in Europe, we are still maintaining the system of automatic and integrated functioning of state lawyers, according to the new state lawyers. Most, if not all the countries in the community in which we live have adapted, have adopted appropriate and necessary modifications and adjustments. And at the very least, it would be unwise for us to remain on the same side as we were in 1997, not the world, not the legal framework, not the institutional arrangements, not nearly the same as it was then. In this consideration, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law. Of course, we will also address some specific issues within today's general debate and the dilemma they have raised, I hope that future state lawyers, as well as, for example, local communities, will be able to do so. The key to this law is that together we will find a way to be effective and also aware that it is no longer self-evident that everything works by law, as is evident from the case of the geographical protection of the Slovenian Teran, can act to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u79	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President. Changes in the field of state defence were announced by the Minister of Justice at the time of the term of office. The announced changes have changed at this time into a reform and a completely new law on state lawyers. The Law on State Defence was passed in 1997, as we have already heard, and later novelties were mostly related to the abolition of the established anti-constitutionalities. It is therefore clear after 20 years that an update is needed. Is there really a need for reform as large as it is offered, and lawyers are also asking themselves. The State's Attorney's Office is the state's legal representative. Its function is to protect public finances. It could be said that its main function is to ensure that the wrong policies and failed actions of each government and the unclear, fast-prepared and controversial legislation adopted by the National Assembly do not cost too much. Therefore, if we are to burden the state's defence, we must first and foremost eliminate the wrong policies and actions of the Government and prevent the adoption of laws that are simply bad. The most burdensome cases dealt with by the State's defence authorities are the result of the conduct of the State and its authorities. Inadmissible, I cannot call it anything other than the depopulation of the population, the failure to provide decent living conditions in Roma settlements, the undignified situation in prisons, violations of the right to a trial within a reasonable time frame, incredible compensation in denationalisation procedures, environmental protection claims and, even more, similar cases are the result of the conduct and decisions of governments and the national assembly. And such cases simply should not be. The first reform that everyone should pursue together, and should also be implemented, would be to reform politics. But well, that's already a question that goes beyond the framework of this law. As far as the state's defence is concerned, two things have to be provided for because of the above-mentioned entanglement. First, its independence and autonomy without the possibility of predominance of possible interests or political reasons. Secondly, ensure the appropriate expertise and accountability of lawyers. We all probably remember the case of the Ormož sugar factory, the deadline missed by the lawyer and 8.7 million euros the heavy consequences of this negligence. In order to prevent such and similar cases, it is therefore essential that we have an independent and autonomous body, which must ensure the professional and conscientious work of lawyers and take appropriate responsibility in case of error and negligence. But we will not provide this with a new graphic image, and the money needed to make this change would be more useful for education and training, not for new boards, business cards and business cards. We feel that a change of name has only one goal, and this is to give the feeling that it is indeed a major reform. Or it is linked solely to the Ministry's original wish to privatise the defence of the state and grant representation authority to a private lawyer's office. As far as other changes are concerned, they are in fact difficult to identify. The explanation of the proposal is very poor, no analysis, no concrete comparative arrangements. Five pages to present the regulation in nine other countries, less than half a page to explain the reasons for the adoption of the law. In the proposal, we had to look for this functional analysis among the Minister's replies to the parliamentary questions. After reviewing the nine pages of the long document, we could only find that this is not an analysis and that it actually describes two solutions, which are not in the law at the end of the day. The second analysis to be the basis for this new law is an analysis of open court, out-of-court, arbitral and other proceedings. This analysis is also not submitted to the draft law. Even on the Internet it cannot be found and all we can learn is that Slovenia is supposed to be exposed to judicial and other proceedings worth more than a billion euros. The analysis has thus shown that we have €1 billion in missing government actions and policies. We certainly hope here that we will be given some explanations and, above all, clarifications in this regard during the debate. If the only available analysis prepared by the Ministry is nine pages long, on the other hand, the State Attorney's Office has prepared a total of 215 pages of comments and proposals for improvements. Nor is this likely to indicate that we have a quality and thoughtful proposal for a law before us. However, the Ministry's response to the State defence's proposals from the explanatory memorandum is not clear. The only positive thing that can be seen in this explanation is that the Ministry's intention to privatise the defence of the country and transfer these powers to private law offices has fallen out of the proposal. The post-privatisation appetites in this government are obviously present in all areas. With regard to the placement of the defence under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice, the classification of employees as civil servants, the provisions on disciplinary responsibility and the provisions to increase the autonomy and autonomy of the defence, the proposal and its explanation do not simply convince us. The comments and concerns raised by the State Attorney's Office remain open and the explanation of the law does not give any answers. As it is said, this explanation is poor, there is no analysis, no statistics to justify the proposed changes. The comparative review is also complete and I cannot support this at this point in the proposal. We will wait for today's general debate and above all the answers of the Minister of Justice. There is certainly also reflection on the public presentation of opinions. There are many, perhaps too many, open questions. If the Ministry finds that Slovenia is currently exposed to judicial and other proceedings worth more than EUR 1 billion, and if we know that one error by the Ombudsman can cost the country almost EUR 9 million, then this is more than a valid reason for a concrete and sound reflection. Even if a large proportion of this billions of euros, in addition to the Government's failed actions, is also to blame for the poor and, above all, reckless legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u81	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u82	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The State's defence must be a marriage for the effective representation of the state's authorities. Only the name says that it must protect the property benefits of the country, so it works in its broadest interest. In Novi Slovenija we believe it is right that the Government has the right to say what it wants and how a state lawyer should act in individual cases, representing the interests of the State. It is a matter of guidance that follows the public interest if we come from the fact that every single government also represents the interests of the state. At least we should. The work of this independent state authority has in fact not demonstrated confidence in effective representation. We know quite a few cases when the Attorney General's Office has completely failed. Slovenia's delayed deadline to file an action against the European Commission for a fine of EUR 8.7 million for irregularities in the closure of the embossed sugar factory. The action was therefore dismissed and the State became liable to pay the penalty. Indeed, as the Advocate General says, one or two rebuttal cases, when it comes to the criminal responsibility of the defence, cannot be a reason to generalise and prove that there is something very wrong with the defence. However, Slovenia is as a party to the proceedings in judicial, out-of-court, arbitral and other procedures with a total value exceeding EUR billion. This is an emergency alert. The commitment of the State's lawyer to the directional instructions of each Minister does not imply a loss of his autonomy and autonomy. As a body within the Ministry, the State's Attorney's Office will operate in the system of public servants, which in fact leaves the door open for a possible greater impact on the conduct of proceedings. In Novi Slovenija we draw attention to the following. As regards the staffing structure, which is fully in the hands of the Minister, it is envisaged that, from now on, the public and property interests of the State and others of public law should be represented in particular by staff with six years less working experience than is required under the regulation. These are the work experience of judges and prosecutors of beginners. It is envisaged to reduce the number of highly qualified staff in the State's Attorney's Office, now six years after the legal examination. This is a staff of three years of working experience after a legal examination, a state lawyer is said and without the required work experience after a legal examination of a candidate for a state lawyer. It is envisaged to extend the time-limits for the limitation of claims against the Republic of Slovenia, but not against persons against whom the State will raise disputes. With the possibility of representing and giving legal opinions to persons of public law and companies wholly owned by the State, a thousand 746 new entities, such as RTV, hospitals, libraries, Kobalna Lipica, music schools, ZPIZ, ZZZS, Public Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, six mines, Slovenian Railways, Holding Slovenian Power Plants, and could also list, the State may be liable to these entities. Under the current regime, the lawyer of these entities was liable for compensation on the basis of professional responsibility. The financial effects of compensations that will burden the budget and are not evaluated in the draft law. The preliminary procedure means that anyone who sues the State must submit a preliminary request for a peaceful settlement of the dispute to the State's defence. The Ministry has not considered that in many cases the late interest will begin to run from the date of the application, which the State is exposing to new financial burdens. The Commission for the assessment of the relevant candidates shall be considered only as senior state lawyers, appointed by the Minister, which is contrary to the law on public servants, under which the Commission shall be appointed by the chairman, which shall apply to all other employment in the State's Attorney's Office. The proposal for a new law on state lawyers needs to be improved and eliminated, and we will not support it in this form in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u83	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the bill. I give the first the word "magic." Goran Klemenčič, Minister of Justice. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As an apology to you as well as to those few Members, there are in fact more Members than Members today in the National Assembly who are still here. Well done! I also have two daughters at home, so, great. Because I haven't come up with time to present my opinions. You will not believe — do you know what I was doing? Since I have quite a bit of time as a government, an hour, and I won't talk for so long, I wrote a draft thank-you letter to the various colleagues, to the members of the Ministry of Justice, to the co-workers who were appointed in different mandates by different ministers, because this week was in some way a judicial week. We had five laws, we had the President of the Supreme Court, we had some opposition laws and explanations. But that's not what this is about. Look, I am today, as far as the State's Attorney's Office is concerned, and it is good for me to perform now, but not at the beginning, because I listened to you earlier, and I am also glad that all of you who have presented the views of the Members' groups here, including you, also, because I have some answers or at least calls for you. Look, we'll probably all agree, the state or state authorities are the biggest defendant and prosecutor in the justice system of the Republic of Slovenia. We are exposed to many lawsuits in the international environment, not to talk about arbitration, not to talk about compensation disputes, to labour disputes and it is very simple to ask ourselves whether we have as a country, and here I am not talking about a country as an abstract concept, because every lost action is subject to payment by taxpayers, regardless of what political orientations they are. This comes from the taxpayers' pocket. Do we have the best state attorney or attorney? We don't have one. There can be no doubt about that. Well, that's not the key reason. That's not why it works. It is something, of course, because of the legislation on how the state's defence works today, but also simply because the system that it was established after its independence and, by the way, the state's defence is the result of a social state's attorney who was not such a bad system. But, uh, that's passed on, and there's a bunch of stuff that didn't go in. The state's attorneys have lived one of their lives. Many times they worked very well, often not so well. However, due to legal restrictions, a number of disputes have been resolved by the State’s defences. Remember the multimillion-dollar lawsuit in the case of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, where the state's Attorney's Office was not included at all. Remember the flood in Prekmurje, where the State's Attorney's Office could not be included because we have such legal restrictions. Remember the many lawsuits brought by the city’s congregations, as well as by other state authorities, and they had to hire law firms because there was no legal basis for this to be done by the state’s attorneys. Remember everything we lost in the European Court of Human Rights, and I admit that under 90% I am signing and I'm kind of glad that we lost it because it's right that we lost it because it's right that they forced us to respect international rights. In short, we don't have a decent state attorney. Each country needs a decent, most efficient and largest law firm. We don't have one. Something about the very reasons in the state's attorney's office, something about the system we have. At the Ministry of Justice, we therefore decided two years ago to change that. We carried out a thorough analysis of the comparative elections, together with the Ministry of Finance, we carried out a thorough analysis of the open disputes Slovenia has. They're almost 2 billion euros. It is absolutely necessary to attach some of the criticisms of the State's defences here. These were not caused by the state's attorneys to understand each other. There are a lot of them from the ZUJF from the Yangtze government to understand each other. These are thousands and thousands of disputes involving regression, salary, pensions. However, we also have matters relating to the construction of various tunnels, and so on, for which individual ministries are responsible, the State's defence does not come at all in any way, because it cannot because there is no legal basis for this. We also have to agree with this, which is, of course, my personal opinion that, despite the individual bright exceptions in the international field, in representation before international courts, we have not exactly proved ourselves. This is precisely the fact that, you know, the prosecution of international courts is not only a legal issue, but always a bit of a political issue. Here, essentially, the State's Attorney's Office did not have the right link, as it were, with the executive branch of power. After all, the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights only after we in some way stepped up the enforcement of the judgments on the part of the European Court of Human Rights, we have reached a possible joint decision in the case of Lukend that Slovenia is no longer a systemic problem in the area of arrears. We are working intensively on the implementation of the Shilih case, which we have resolved in a specific case, not on an abstract case and so on. However, the efficient and efficient work of each body depends also on its prudence and the prudence of organising. That is why we have given great attention to the organisational and status issues of future regulation and have set ourselves the goal of creating a body that will in practice be able to deal with the ever-increasing number of cases and their increasing complexity. The proposal for the State's Attorney's Law, which is before you today, represents a fundamental overhaul of the State's defence, and a state's attorney's office is being established. He could also be called the State's Attorney's Office. But you know, sometimes symbolic, and I believe that we will agree, sometimes a change of name also brings some new symbolic encouragement. Not even because the organ's gonna have to work differently. And by the way, now I'm looking at this page, even though you're a little bit here or here is just Anja Bah Žibert and I welcome you, this is actually the state's attorney's office, the social defense, this is really some remnant of the community system. Most foreign countries, as you can see in the bill, have state attorneys here in one way or another. There was a lot of talk in drafting the law about what the status should be. The fact is, we know three systems. It is one because it is a public service, one way or another subordinate to either the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice or the government itself. And the second is that it's so part-time job, and we follow that. I have to say that with my teeth clenched, because I don't think we've gone far enough, but look, I'll be happy with that, because I think we'll take a step further. This is some service that has certain autonomy, but cannot be independent in the same way as a court of its own, love God! Or the D.A.'s office. They're state lawyers! Everyone in your individual role should imagine the person who will ask him or give him a mandate to do something, and this is the mandate of the state and should take over the responsibility of individual ministers and governments instead. [[…]] This is the second option, which is in some ways the most common. No, not the most common, but like that. And then we have a third option. The third option is the current variant in the Republic of Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and with a slightly smaller scope in the Republic of Serbia. And these were also the ones that some of you have listened to around the world in the State Council, which organised this and the Advocate General of State from Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia came, who said that it was very important, however, that they were independent in this way. But that's not what this is about. Look, the state needs a lawyer in the final stages to give him a mandate. Either he gives him the right or the wrong mandate, but it must be the responsibility of the minister who gives him that mandate. We are now having a very open conversation because it is already going to this general debate. One of the first things experts said to me at the Ministry of Justice when I said we would go into these changes, they said, "But Minister, do you know how much more responsibility you will take with this?" Since now any matter concerning the State's defence can be so, they are independent. When the question comes, or when the question comes to the media, you say, look, they're independent. Dear God, a lawyer can't be alone! It must work within its professional and ethical standards and must follow the instructions given to it. If these instructions are corrupt, if these instructions are unacceptable, if these instructions are not in the public interest, they must be in line with those given. And this is an individual minister or government. Today we have all this blurry to understand each other. It's all blurry. See, when the Ormož case took place, the only procedure that was carried out in some way was the disciplinary procedure in the State’s Attorney’s Office. Do you know what it took? That he's the Minister of Justice, which means I almost said I'd put the Disciplinary Prosecutor in disciplinary proceedings if she didn't initiate any proceedings. It doesn't matter how it ends, but we can't say nothing happened. This was purely legitimate and consistent with the law. But what am I trying to say? We have now come into the system and are proposing a system, because I myself, though with my teeth clenched, believe that in order to ensure public interest the State's defence must be an independent body and must not be subject to the Minister of Justice every time. I'll get back to that. However, it is necessary to establish a system within it to act as a well-designed, flexible and responsive legal office that will serve the Republic of Slovenia in the international field. You may have read in an expert paper that, even in the international field, in arbitration, in representation before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg and in representation before the European Court of Human Rights, that is to say, the profession supports this unanimously. And what do we have left? By the way, even all of this, you can be the countless Target, and then you watch from Slak through RTV how the problem has always been how the state never wants to settle, of course it doesn't want to settle itself, because here we are adults who are mostly in politics, if you have one dispute for which you should pay as minister or government so much and so, I don't know, 100,000 or so, and then you ask and say, "Hey, but if we don't settle if the lawsuit goes forward when this will be resolved," and someone says that in five years. [[…]] Well, then that won't be my problem. And this is doing a lot of damage to the public interest. And that's why we wrote in the law, if it's the expert opinion of the state attorney that it's settled and the minister doesn't want to settle, then it's on a special committee where the Ministry of Finance, not the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Finance, people from the Ministry of Finance, people from the Ministry of Justice and people from the State Attorney's Office who will say it's better to do it now than then. And these are such small things that I really, really leave aside now, how we understand each other and so on, but look, the state's attorney's office, even though there are a lot of extremely good people in there, but the system we have is passport. [[…]] And in one part there are actually things, in a large part there are things that will assure us, any government, left or right, a step forward. The current system is bad, and I hope we can all agree on that. Is the new system optimal? Probably not because you can never make an optimal system. Is it a step in the right direction? I think it's very deep. And once again, I ask you, two billion taxpayers' money, Members of Parliament and Members, are dependent on it. It's not about money that can be directed if we go to the left, to a lot of lefts or social things, if we go to the right, I'm not going to say what it might be, because we don't understand each other that well, but probably. I know this is a step in the right direction. Not because I'm so smart or because my colleague who's been preparing this marriage is so smart, but because we're not the smartest in the world. Because we currently have a system that is only in Bosnia and Herzegovina and partly in Serbia. And I ask you, and I am glad that there is a general debate. Once for a change, I am grateful that the SDS has convened a general debate, because this will allow us to make some adjustments. Just like you said before about the Law of the Council of Justice. But please, somewhere in the papers it said it was a hateful takeover of the State Attorney's Office by the Ministry of Justice. In fact, it is whether you, as Members and Members of Parliament, will agree that the hostages of the 70 officials appointed by the various governments of the Republic of Slovenia will sometimes be on the last day of your existence on the left and right, because this is the only judicial function where you can be appointed as a post that brings the salary of the higher judge of the higher court in the Republic of Slovenia. That you would agree to this as hostages of all these lobbying pressures. In two and a half years of dealing with various legislative projects, never before, and that tells me a lot of things, I have never been faced with as much lobbying pressure on the left and on the right as in the case of state defence. Decide whether you will be held hostage by 70 people in order to stay, and this will sound really political and somewhat exaggerated, within the Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia Group in this area. And now two more things. First of all, Mr Vatovec, if anything, this law does not bring about the privatisation of the state's legal representation, but rather the other way around. You need to know that today, due to the law or system that exists, the State Defence Office can represent only the smaller countries, while for each representation, I do not know, the municipalities of Ljubljana, Drava power plants, etc. the hiring of private legal services. With the proposal we are introducing into this law, it would be because we have the largest, if we already have the best law firm, but I don't know if we have it, but I hope that we will establish it, which is paid for by state money, and if state companies, municipalities or normal local communities have a matter that they believe is of national importance, they will be represented for free by state lawyers. If she doesn't want to do this, she'll have to explain it, eventually the government will decide. Is this the perfect system? It's not. It's still gonna happen, God damn it. But the cool thing is, and this is what I'm most angry about, because they knew, look, anyway, there was a lot of talk about, so you're going to give an extra one, and you're going to give SDS a hint of that, so you're going to give an extra job to the lawyers' offices. [[…]] The fact is that now the state's attorney-general will be the one to make the decision. Not an individual minister, not a government. Look, we can understand each other very differently, as we say, but this marriage was really prepared in good faith. And the last thing I have to say is, and then, really, because I'm already long, but since I've got quite a bit of time, look, SDS, you've had all the exhibits about how state attorneys must be independent of how you're defending public interest. And run, come on! Here I have a proposal and an adopted law when you were putting yourself on your head because the state's defence in 2004, 2005 and 2006 has brought down various procedures concerning denationalisation, where you were losing your nerve, because the state's defence has opposed, let alone, the return of the white island and that archdiocese to that castle, and so on, denationalisation and, by the way, the last amendment to the Law on State Defence was on your initiative to limit the independence of state defenders, so as not to impose any extraordinary or regular remedies in the event that the Government wants to do the service of the Roman Catholic Church. [[…]] This is a fact and I challenge you to oppose me in this regard, because we will then have 36 minutes of discussions with concrete information on this. Therefore, how this government wants to limit the autonomy of the State's defence, I do not accept this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u85	Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I allow some debates, the presidents, to be very graphic, maybe think someone with them is funny, cute, etc. But when they go beyond some taste, I'm going to say, the taste that belongs to a national council and to some level that would rule here comes from the Ministry of Justice, and I'm asking you, President, to warn him. You know, some of the words “you put yourself on your head, you lose your temper”, all of these are hard words. It is also very difficult for those who are actually lost in this country and also because of you, a respected minister who does not regulate justice as you should.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u87	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, I respect your opinion. Before I conclude my thought, I will give the floor to the Minister for Reply. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Look, I'll give it to you! [[…]] Do you know what you've already told me, or is there a friend who's been here this week, and it's gonna look like I'm gonna say it again. [[…]] Do you think that on the part of the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you too, Vice-President, it is inappropriate to say that, for example, Mr Gorenak, who knows that we have had five fundamentals, that there is much on television in the last days because we have had laws in the field of justice and he is, as I know, still the Minister of Justice in the shadows. He's got a new vest or a red tie today, he's got a red tie, he's got a red computer. Could you tell him anything about it? Is that unacceptable by the Minister? After listening yesterday when I wasn't here, my secretary of state had to listen to how plagiarized I was, how I didn't know what. Don't fuck with me, you know, in that sense! Now you're moving your head. What do I mean? You can't get up when something's wrong with you. I've never told anyone about my direct insults. If I did, I can apologize for her. But today I am asking you, because I have earlier addressed SDS representative Anje Bah Žibert, from whom I have never heard a word about the state's defence, and I have heard very important words, which I hope I have refused, to say that we are talking about arguments. Then you can't stand up and say you have to silence me when you directly insult me at every session or national assembly or committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u89	I answer both of you and I answer to everyone. I don't care what you had or what you had. I am here to coordinate this debate and allow me to begin this debate in the way that we are here. We're talking about this content. I respect everyone's opinion, but I ask you to convey your personal offenses outside the Chamber, there are not many other Members here today who would like to discuss the content that we are here for. So I'm asking you very nicely if there's nothing very important to continue our work. And I see Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's hand, I give you my word for procedural. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. I absolutely support and I also wanted to propose that we continue with the content of the debate. However, the Minister's challenges are those that show that it is not for his content but for his accounting. It also lists what some individual Member of the National Assembly said and who insulted him. Dear Minister, I believe you find it unpleasant to speak of how much your wife deserves on behalf of the state, what you have done in the role of President of the KPK, but unfortunately, look, these are facts. These are your results and let's face it. That's not an insult. But if you're telling me I'm losing my temper or I'm losing my mind, that's an insult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u91	Mr. Secretary's answer. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I am always prepared to take the debate on how much my wife deserves, how much I deserve, if you are willing to take the debate on how much your party president deserves, how much his brother earns from state-owned enterprises, what he pays for his property. For the record, if he is not present, but, of course, he is a Member, I believe that you will also bear this to him. So anytime, anywhere, always. Thank you, Mrs. Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u93	Dr. Jasna Murgel, please take us on the right path. May I give you my word? Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, do you insist on proceeding? Gradually, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u94	President, if he is unable to answer to me, you give him your word, then please note that he does not interfere in this part of the room with those who are not at all. What a Member of the National Assembly, which is Mr Janez Janša, deserves is public. I don't think there's any problem here. My salary is public too, and your salary is public. But it's a little more problematic than another contract, given that you're acting as minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u95	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u96	I respect the vice president because I know he will, but I have a right to. You know, my wife's not here either. But my wife is not even a member, she is not a public figure, and John John Janša is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u97	Mrs. Jasna Murgel, you have the floor. Get Mr. Jan Škoberne ready. And before he does, I'm sorry, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I am waiting for us to come to terms and to discuss the proposal for a law on state defence. This is the point today. Thank you for letting me. It's an important topic. We also see after this honesty here today that it is a very important topic. Even more so than she used to be. The Council of Justice, I don't think we can compare them, let's say I stop at that. So it's a very important topic. One part, one of the building blocks of justice we want to change today, so the general debate is needed, welcome. We're on the phone, we're talking, I don't know what! I don't know how important it is to you all what we're talking about. I pray for peace, if I may. Comrade Ferlug, can you be quiet? I mean, now it's too big!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u99	You keep going, Mrs. Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u100	I mean, keep it down, just keep it down! We can talk, thank you very much. I'm sorry I got a little angry, but that's it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u101	Go ahead, go ahead. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u102	So, the State's Attorney's Office, let me get this straight, I don't have any sympathy for the State's Attorney's Office. Even the opposite. If we compare the status of the judge with the state's attorney, we see a very large difference. Like when I was a district judge and a district judge, and I'll tell you this a hundred times if I have to, it starts at the 47th grade. Then you advance, you get an opinion from the Council of Justice that you can and will empty a seat in the district court, and you're the 50th salary grade, and you decide on the most difficult disputes, civil or criminal, in the country. 50th grade. The state's attorneys are in the rank of senior judge on the start, 53rd salary grade. I'm not a fan, I'm not. Irregularities have occurred. However, the disciplinary procedure is not regulated. Although we can now refer to the provisions of the second law. And a kind of surveillance. Do you understand, I don't know if you understand, but the supervision of the judges through the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice. Don't look at me. Every month, judges report what they've done to the Council of Justice, and I'm not going to the judges right now. Indeed, there is much greater control of judges than of state defenders. But you can look at me and we won't go fighting now, Mr. Gorenak. You're looking at me funny. I'm already mirrored. It's okay, I won't. Look, there were mistakes, there were yes, and who wouldn't get angry when he hears 8 million in the paper, and there's a million of them, like we're picking them up at the market or something. [[…]] I am now looking at this law on early treatment of children with special needs, 2 million. All right, let's leave that. And yes, there was a lot of money going on. Now the question is whether the State Attorney's Office is responsible for everything or whether it has already gone into some kind of conflict and may have missed some time in some lawsuit that has already been lost. That's different things, but I'm not gonna be your lawyer here right now. We said we'd support the marriage at first reading. I have some concerns, I don't want these mistakes to happen again, I don't want to be responsible, and at least I don't want to support another system like this. I don't want that, and please don't let anyone put it on the button, I'll say I don't want it, and I want things to work out. But the question is, how do they get along? Let's get one more thing straight. You've all been taking comments today on the law, which is the state's Attorney's Office. A colleague who now has a debate there also read exactly what the state's attorneys wrote. We were also able to hear this at a consultation on the Law on State Lawyery, which was in the State Council. I was watching the video. Let's get one more thing straight. I was also contacted by state attorneys. I reported a lobbyist contact, and then you clear it out, maybe it's you, not you, but exactly what you're reading is from their records and their findings. All right, let's make sure the legislation's okay. I am concerned not only about the State's defence's comments but also about the section's comments that I cannot go through in certain things, I cannot go through. I'm here for this, and I believe you're all for taking some solutions that we think are good at our expert judgement. Forgive me, I'm a lawyer, but there's so many times you can tell her, a lawyer, and God forbid, a doctor of science, a legal doctor. Yeah, that's terrible! Through some professional arguments, which not only came from the State's Attorney's Office, but also came from the profession, just because they're from the State's Attorney's Office, I can't. I can't because there's one thing I think is justified. I don't know if the Ministry has answered everything. And here I am, repeating once again that I am taking decisions and I am taking part in the adoption of legislation that I think is legal. For each one has his own explanation, for we know – three lawyers, five opinions. But that's just something I'm trying to follow. Yes, the main thing is that state attorneys want to maintain their public office status. Those 70 or how many people are gonna hold us hostage now. No, no, no one's holding me hostage, but I just want to really think about whether what's proposed is really right. I mean, I wouldn't say anything, but like now, it's not right. It's not right. We have this status. He'll no longer be a public official. Now he's a public official. We are now introducing some elements here that will all except, and kindly please, yes, we had these variants of this law, the representatives of the coalition don't even know how many deputies we have. We've got one. We had two because we tried to coordinate across the street to make a better statement. There is a status for state lawyers who are civil servants, the general and his deputy are officials, and now there is one mix that I don't know if she's going to drink water. Please, I'm gonna get mad again because some people are laughing. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] The question is whether the state's lawyer, now in a new way, can stand alone without the government's authority and independently of the government's direction, represent the interests of the state and not just one ministry to which it will be subordinated. You understand that, colleague Han? Because now it's really a question of whether or not [[There's a riot in the hall.]] But he's my colleague Ferluga again. [[…]] So the question is, after the new state's attorney, he'll be on his own. Again, we have a series of elements that we can conclude will not be so self-sustaining, but I am most interested in the question of Article 12, which says: "The State's defence before the courts in the Republic of Slovenia represents the state and state authorities." Does he need authorization now?Oh, my God! Since they're public servants, does he need authorization for every file, every case? Will we have the general authority to do what? I, unlike you, have been involved in judicial proceedings, I know what a mandate is, I know what representation is based on the law, and this thing with these officials, whether or not they are, I am particularly concerned about whether it will be possible to effectively represent the public interest, whether this will protect the public interest of the State and whether these civil servants will be able to represent it. And that's it. Are we going to get worse, or are we actually going to get better? That's my thought. And here's a mix-up by not knowing what the relationship is with these civil servants to the Public Servants Act, which says that public servants are subordinates, they have to follow the instructions of their superiors. And from this independence, there's not much fighting left. Please explain to me that I will understand in my legal head that it will be clear to me that I will have no bad conscience when I press the button and say, here, and now the legal situation. Because very many legal experts to this challenge and also my way of thinking somehow follow that this enormous extension is, let's just say, some things I'm exposing. This enormous extension of the number of cases that will then, yes, the number of entities, and thus the number of cases, thank you very much, Mr Gorenak, represented by these entities, will be all right, that state lawyers will also represent these entities, but I don't know if we really think they will be able to do this without having to increase the number. Well, that's now, someone's counting, a thousand 700s and something. Yeah, 170 to a thousand 700s and something. I don't know, I won't pretend to know everything that I know that I've figured it all out, but we've read it from this opinion of the state's attorneys. But one thing I can't do is disagree. I expect these things to be cleared up completely, and I think it is appropriate that the general debate is to clear this up. I have no answers to these questions, and there is much more to come, but it is essential to represent the public interest. Once again, I do not agree to transfer responsibility to us Members, as if because we want to achieve that the solution would be as appropriate as possible, and because of this we do not want to prevent all these irregularities that are happening. Mr Minister, also the Republic of Croatia, because I know that these are the countries of the former Yugoslavia, but there remains the State's defence essentially within the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and the main thing is that there are still government officials there. It is mixed here, two are officials, one are civil servants, and the content is as if they were officials of the provisions. I find it difficult to clear in my head if I tell you the most plastic way that what is said in the bill is right, and that some of the things that state attorneys say are wrong. And another profession, because it was not only the state's attorneys who were involved in these professional debates, there were also many other experts, which we asked ourselves. So I will support the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration, but we still have much to discuss, and in particular I would ask the Ministry of Justice to really respond to these concerns, not from this point of view, if, now, if you do not confirm this, you will be in favour of continuing to charge the state in disputes, but a little more argumentedly, please. This will happen on the Justice Committee, when we have a second hearing, we will have all these representatives of the stakeholders in the judiciary on the Justice Committee, and they will bombard us with all these arguments that some of us have mentioned, because there are a lot more, and I will not read everything now. But we, if we are to be sure that this solution is the right one, will really have to have the right arguments for each of these claims. Or we decide, and we sweep, and only the civil servants will be, we take the Civil Servants Act, we have a clear situation. I would really like to ask for a little more clarification on these specific dilemmas, which arise as we can have a clear conscience when we decide on one or the other option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u103	The Minister of Mag's answer. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I would really not compare the Republic of Croatia. There, the State's Attorney's Office was transferred to the State's Attorney's Office, and this has caused great problems. [[Incomprehensible]] Otherwise, to have very legitimate and legitimate concerns, but I would like to address them as already addressed in the bill and with explanations. First of all, you said that all these shareholders would be on the board. We already have responses from the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Attorney General's Office, who had no problem with this. Otherwise, it's with the State's Attorney's Office, which is understandable. As far as public servants are concerned. You know there are judges in the wider system, unfortunately. They're officials, but they're on a broader system of government. What we wanted was to do a black box that would be headed by an officer. Because the official has some protection and his two deputies are officers. And then you have a public servant inside. Like all inspectors of public servants, such as all investigators of the commission, even at the NPU, public servants, with additional legal conditions to ensure their independence. Because as soon as you say they're officials, you have to tie them to a term, because we've been talking about this, Jasna, and you know it directly in the parliamentary group, and you have a bunch of problems. You can't even tell them to stamp, tell them how much they really worked. And in the state's attorney's office, that's the problem. Functioning does not allow, I think, the Law on the Council of Justice is, indeed, colleague Gorenak, which I absolutely agree with, Dr. Gorenak, about management. Functioning does not allow management. It does not allow you, as Attorney General of State, to say to the official, state attorney in Maribor or New City: “When you were at work, how much did you do and so on?” “I am a functionary, who are you to tell me something?” It allows you, we are now very honest with each other, it allows you exactly as much as is possible for the President of the Court in relation to the judges. And that's very little, too little. But this is allowed in court, and in the State's Attorney's Office this should not be allowed. We've written down very clearly, a huge number of security guards we've put in, that individual state attorney is independent. But if the Attorney General or his college, which we have put in particular now, takes any position that we will be representing this position in the Ministry of Defence or in the Ministry of the Interior, you will represent it, or you will go. Well, that makes sense. You'll find a job elsewhere if you're not ready to represent it, because the state has to have one order, it can be wrong, but for whoever's responsible. That's the first thing. But once again, I am, once again, happy that today is a general debate, because it will save us a lot of what we will say on the committee and then in the procedure and we are ready to make a difference. Because, quite frankly, we wanted more communication with the State's Attorney's Office, because this has been such a closed system so far that sometimes we don't know what's going on. And look, it's no secret that I'm saying this when the law was unanimously upheld in the government, then we met with the Prime Minister of the Government once again with the Attorney General elected by this coalition, by the way. We agreed, of course, they very much oppose it, and we agreed, “Look, the law will confirm, it will go on but let us get in the middle of it. And here I have the words “State Advocates”, not all of them, because I have friends among them, you understand, but the top of the State Attorney's Office, “we, until the law is published in the Official Journal, will fight for our status, dot!” A colleague knows, but she is an expert member of the Ministry of Justice from Prof. Šturma onward, that we tried to find contact, that we tried to find good solutions, but 10 to 15 people in this 70-member group of state attorneys say: "No, we will not talk because we are only interested in status. As long as we're not officers...« And I'll tell you this, it's very, very disgusting. And this also comes from the environment of the state's attorney, which I have proposed to the National Assembly for election. Now for the last thing, from 140 to a thousand 700. The law is very clear, allowing for the possibility that we must all agree that the procedure concerning the Ljubljana Municipality can be important for the country, the Maribor Municipality, which is important for the country, or for some border municipalities – Lendava, Slovenj Gradec, Nova Gorica, which is important for the country. And it is important that this municipality does not pay thousands and thousands of euros to the law firm, but to involve someone at the headquarters in Ljubljana through the state's defence and have a domestic state salary for administrative assistance. We all know that's the case. If you want one where we at the Ministry of Justice tried to get involved intensively, we did not quite succeed, the Drava power plant, because the Austrians opened up the water, but the poof, everything down and then people hired their own lawyers. And they said how it's not possible for the country to get involved. And we said, "Yes, because the state is not directly sued." That's ridiculous. There's only a chance here. And I'll tell you again. They're state attorneys, and I resent that because it's totally manipulation and total populism. They counted all kindergartens in the Republic of Slovenia and said: "Now we will have to represent them." Yeah, even if it's possible. If any kindergarten in Slovenia will have a case that will be important at national level, it is difficult to imagine, but it can also happen, we have the possibility in law that this kindergarten will not hire this and this law firm, which will possibly represent the mayor in his criminal proceedings, such as in Ljubljana, Maribor and Koper, regularly happens, but will hire a state attorney's office. If the government agrees. That's the government's responsibility. Once again, I really believe, and my colleagues are writing down here, we're going to fix this marriage, I believe. It would be even better if we had better interlocutors in the state's defence, but frankly, and here and I know they're looking now because, by the way, they're going to all my press conferences instead of going to court hearings. That's what's going on. If we had an interlocutor on the side of the Attorney General's Office, the law could be even better. But it is not because their only proven option is: “We will fight for our status.” And that's why I feel bad. And once again, that doesn't mean for all state attorneys, that means for 10 to 15 people who are very exposed here. On the basis of what we are going to say today and on the basis of what the Legislative and Legal Service will say, we will see changes. Once again, I ask you, at least in this sense, because this is the point of the general debate, whether it is a law or an area worth further regulation and beyond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u105	The replica, Dr. Jasna Murgel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u106	I just wanted to say something that might not have been understood or made clear enough. I don't deal with officials. I don't care about these officials and the state's attorneys. If I could, I would have sewn them up at home so they wouldn't be as nice as they are now under this law. I'm sorry, that's true. I am acting with thought and agree that control, responsibility and everything that has not been done so far must be regulated. And this is regulated by this law. Nevertheless, I find this most painful, and this is the basic and fundamental dilemma that is bothering me personally and I want to answer this question: will it be provided independently of the government's direction to represent the interests of the State as such, not the individual ministry, but simply that someone is an official and can represent as a party a state and its interests that can, I don't know, differ from the interests of a certain minister who would like to do something in a particular process? Just so nobody really thinks it's this status and I don't know what I want to keep. The status does not matter to me, it is important whether we will do the right thing for the country to be the best solution for the country and the enforcement of claims and the protection of the country's legal interests. That's all I care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u107	Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u108	Yeah, who'd have thought we'd have to deal with this sooner at the SMC but cool. Of course [[Laughing in the hall]] This is the first time Anya Bah Gibert has laughed at my intervention. It's Friday. No, but it's an important point. This is very important what you've pointed out. That's what's happening right now. And we all know that. The State's defence is related to the so-called guidelines. The Office of the Ombudsman cannot take separate decisions in spite of the fact that the competent authority is responsible for them, which is usually the Ministry of Public Prosecutions to provide guidance: whether it will be settled or not to be settled. Here, Dr. Gorenak, you know that. Here, of course. It's Friday, here. That's it. And that's one of the things that state attorneys, even current state attorneys, have regularly exposed as a problem. And even in public it's always when there's some big stories, why we've lost 15 million, you know, not why we're paying compensation, why we haven't settled if it's obvious we're going to lose. And then the state's attorneys said the minister or the minister didn't want to settle. Why? Because the minister asks: “Will I pay $2 million now? When will the procedure be decided? Yeah, four years from now. U, because then I will be gone and someone else will eat it." I'm sorry. In the current system, once again, we're removing guidance. This is very important. The State's lawyer will tell the person he represents, just like the lawyer you hire yourself, "Look, I think it's a lost cause." I'm caricing now, I think it's a lost cause. If we are suing, the state will pay or the ministry, and the state will pay that and that. Of course, it's probably over so many years and so many years. And then, unfortunately, we live in a country like this, and you'll all agree, it'll be the majority, I mean, we have a lot of trouble working on a long interest, and a lot of people will say, yes, but that'll be the problem of the next government. But if someone says, I don't want to settle, but it will have, and this is the first time in this law written down, a state lawyer option, now it was not theoretical or legal to bring the matter before a special settlement commission that will be drawn up, especially in the law specified by the Ministry of Finance, which you know to be very, well, stingy, as far as the state budget in general, from the Ministry of Justice, where it should be counted, although I believe that at least half of the National Assembly of this opinion does not share that we should put something into law, and from the State Attorney's Office. And if this body assesses, this settlement commission has assessed that, in terms of public interest, it is better to settle now, then only the Government can overcome this, which will have to accept some responsibility and some written explanation in this regard. Whatever. I don't know if this is the best option again, but it's certainly a big step forward. We've given each state's attorney a chance or a lawyer who doesn't agree to pass. This is a lot, it will have the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, MGRT, because it doesn't matter who, if they think they have no legal guidance or that they have a blockade by the Minister, they will be able to go to finance. But you know that the money is "pain in the ass" for every government and they usually decide after, we'll say, some long-term if you do, but not for you, Jasna, but if it's a better decision, we're ready to make it. [[…]] We were looking for something where a lawyer could say, look, it's a good decision, let's settle down, and then the minister says for the sake of politics, not that this lawyer has another path. Or else we could write it down, I don't know. And I think we can talk about this on the committee now that we're in touch. But at least that's our chance. Politically, it is absolutely significantly less likely to influence than it was now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u109	Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u110	The Minister has explained in very detail right now, but, you know, there's still something I don't understand. Who will decide when to take over the new entities? Is this going to the state's attorney or not? Is that you as minister? You say, "You will, you won't, you won't, you will, you will." I'd like to know who will. Since we need to know, the last time lawyers representing these state institutions had the opportunity to seek redress. And if the case went down, that insurance came up with a payoff. I would like to know how you predicted whether these state lawyers would now be responsible, who would be criminally responsible or liable themselves, who would be required of them, or how this would be done in the event that a settlement would not take place, or whether it would not be in the interest of the State. Once again, the lawyer after the current law, who represented a congregation or, for example, Kobilana Lipica, now I have listed what will happen under the state's law, was insured. What kind of guardian will a state attorney have after the current bill? This is particularly important to me in view of the fact that we have said that there are about one billion of these funds that are burdening the country in some way. You even said it was two billion, so the number is even more frightening in some way. How will the request for a peaceful settlement of the dispute take place on the State's defence, I am interested. Whether this will go automatically or you will file a complaint, please give a little more explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u111	The Minister's answer is yes. Here you go, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u112	The law regulates relatively clearly. First thing, look, like you said, of all these almost a thousand 200 more new entities that can enter this system, they couldn't now. If they stand on their heads like I like to say, and some of them are bad for it, they couldn't. If they assess, as Articles 12 and 13 of the Law say, the third paragraph of Article 12: «Public agency, public fund, public institution, public economic institution, self-government local community, public undertaking or economic service wholly owned by the State, they may propose to represent the State's defence in a particular case before the courts of the Republic of Slovenia, which is of exceptional importance to it and to the Republic of Slovenia. The State's defence may reject the representation of those entities by reason of the opinion of the Advocate General.” What do we want to do? Look, I honestly didn't think there'd be so many problems in this area. We say that if we already have the largest law firm in the country, at least we have to legally open it for the smallest locality community in the country. It can have a procedure, it can be a border congregation, it can happen something that has broad interests. That's what we all agree on. There is no possibility in the current system that the state's defence will take over this. You know, we all know, and then the problem is who's gonna pay for it, and left and right. Now that's possible. They may be addressed to the Attorney General. The law is such, they can give an initiative, the Attorney General, who is an independent official, will decide whether or not to accept it. If he rejects the initiative, he must reject it in a reasoned manner, and then there is the Government, which finally decides and can order them to do so, or agrees. Of course, we know that if not, saving almost every local community will say: “Let us do this to them.” But that'll settle down slowly. That's the first thing. The Ministry of Justice doesn't have any jurisdiction here if you're looking at paragraphs 12, 13 here. The state's attorney has jurisdiction. And with that, it's also a responsibility. And as a result, the government. But it's kind of transparent. And your second part of the question was about the previous procedure. Now it has been a problem and several times you may have heard from the professional public that the state's defence is one that is very rarely settled, which very rarely enters into mediation and so on because this process has not been defined. Now we've been trying to work it out, it's a process assumption. It's also a little tied to the PPP, which I hope you'll support tonight. The Justice Procedure Act will be held tonight in the final vote. It gives not only an option, but the state also says, if possible, it is also one of the fundamental elements of this law, if possible, that the dispute should be resolved peacefully. That wasn't possible before. This is simply because it was the first amendment to the Law on State Defence in 2004 or when. It was adopted in the early 1990s. There was no mediation in our vocabulary at the time. Speaking of which, new things, which is also painful for the state's defence. Nobody talked about it today. This law introduces a great deal of specificity regarding the employment of public servants or officials, if you wish. Since we want the state's attorney to actually function as an attorney's office, it has specific provisions on how trainees, candidates, lawyers and so on can be accepted over these general cases. This will, in fact, be one of the few things that will enable young people in the state system to enter important judicial functions, given how the state prosecutor's office is being closed down. Once again, you must have seen it from my show. Indeed, I know, we have not necessarily hit it all in full, but I do not buy that the matter is not a step forward and it has nothing to do with politics, but you understand that every government will have to function either with the state's defence or with the state's attorney's office, and every government has already had a headache about how the state's defence worked. I think we can really come here together. Today's talk is about this, and then we'll see how it's on the board. We're not really buried here, except to move on, but to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u113	Replica, Mrs. Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I still don't think you've answered my question as to what would be the compensation of the state's attorneys. What I said, the lawyers are insured. Will state lawyers now be provided with compensation in the event of poor negotiation or whatever?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u115	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u116	Yeah, you're right. No, they won't, because they're public officials or public servants. That's what I'd tell you now. Given that you have so authoritatively asked the question, tell me, I do not remember that the country, this beloved Republic of Slovenia, would have recovered one cent of insurance within 25 years from any lawyer. It is a general liability of compensation, and I think that by hiring state lawyers instead of lawyers, there will be no profit for the country. That's what I think you said. Yes, thank you, I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u117	Mr. Jan Škoberne, you have the floor. Get Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat ready. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President! In connection with the introduction of this debate, I must be honest to say that this debate is giving me less confidence in this law than I had when I entered the hall. Nor do I think, Mr Minister, in the many debates you have had, in fact, nor is it necessary or worthy of us to discuss this law in this way, neither with those who are more colleagues, nor with those who are less. The specificity of today was that we talked about serious topics, I estimate, relatively exemplaryly, that we have been following for the last hour a circus that this National Assembly does not need. I allow myself to say this out loud because I initially said that we would support the law, because I feel that it is extremely necessary and brings important changes, that it is certainly a matter of marriage that we have not earned, as we have now witnessed, which is certainly not worth it. It is not irrelevant, however, because it is not the first time in this national assembly that any decision will fall at the end of the day because of the way and approach it would not show that it is trustworthy. I don't know. I'm sure we'll think about that. I will support the law in this consideration, as I have already foretold. Of course, everything you have said in the substantive part of your performances is still worth noting to me the letters we received from the local communities. You must have received them, too. Often, it is obvious to the State and to the National Assembly that we are imposing new powers, new tasks, and, of course, we are not financing this. Here, for example, through a letter from the Municipality of Ljubljana, it seems that they recognize an essential advantage in the law for local communities, but they do not believe that this moment in the law is arranged in such a way that they recognize these benefits of the use of state law directly or that they fear that they will not be recognized at the end when they need to use these services. And in this respect, because I believe that you have letters, I would like one more concrete explanation of whether, in the amendment sense, it is also necessary to include comments, such as the Municipality of Ljubljana, which says that the reasons why the State's defence can reject the representation of local self-government and everything else they have dedicated themselves to are defined. I welcome, once again, this general debate. I think that the law is extremely important, but at the same time I think that it deserves proper serious treatment. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u119	Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor. Mrs. Marija Ana Kotnik Poropat and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The man is a little confused in the debate, at least I, in the debate that we have heard so far. As far as I can see, I don't actually know, there's no support here if I'm referring to Mrs Murgel's debate, if I've listened to yours now, I don't see the first enthusiasm for the law either. Then one wonders, at least as an opposition Member, what are you doing, what are you doing if you are not coordinated enough to get the law through. Do you expect us to support him? Maybe someone did it, but they made a little mistake. But look, there's one thing to say, the minister said the pressure was on the left and the right. If this was meant in a political sense, sweaty I don't know, then I'd like to hear who put pressure on you from the right because I don't know who it would be. On the left, I don't know what you two were talking about. There was a lot of debate about how much they were paid. Mrs Murgel explained that they had been paid as senior judges and she had disputed that this was wrong. Now, you know, if you have one good lawyer, I'll give you a case, a sticker case, a passport case. That was billions of dollars at the time. Billions of tolars were a question back then. However, despite the fact that that gentleman started there in the garage, and at the end of the plane he was flying in the air, the owner of that company, Mirage, got it in the first degree. He's got all those heavy billions. He ended up sitting in the woods owned by the state. However, since the state's attorney is Mrs Trivičeva, the drill, drill and drill and worked and worked and worked, in the end most of that amount was produced for this country because he received something small or he will get something small. Most, however, remained in the state treasury. If we have cases like this, then I wouldn't worry a lot about the senior judge's salary, because I think it's okay. But if we have a case like the Ormož Sugar Factory, it's a disaster. What else are we trying to say? There was a lot of talk there before. This fundamental dilemma increased by 750%, as you explained how this happened, from 180 to 700 entities that the state's attorney can after the new representation. You know, the minister himself said that most likely everyone would take advantage of it from the beginning. But here's the thing to say right now. If so, which is likely to be true, then this number of current attorneys will certainly not be sufficient. 100 percent won't be enough. However, it is necessary to assess how many new jobs you will employ. Of course, one wonders whether it's an attorney's office or an attorney's office. All these people are saying that the term must also remain the defence and defence attorneys as such, although I personally find this expression of counsel better because it is also more accurate. It's a state's attorney. He's a state's attorney. I think that's just fine. But the problem is something. Look, the biggest problem with this law, now only the co-workers of Mr Klemenčič are here, is that you had an article in there first, which said that the ministry could decide at any time whether or not the state's attorney would represent the case. Or he'll fly out to Cheferin's lawyer's office, maybe to the minister's attorney's office, or anywhere. That's the article you had in your marriage. Is that right? Here. But then you warned the current attorneys that you threw this matter out. That's not in there anymore. It is true, however, that that article had consequences in at least twenty other articles. That's what's left in there. That article had consequences in twenty more articles, but that's what's left in there. And that's the key problem with this marriage for me. The minister didn't hear, I'm saying that you had an article in there that the minister could at any time. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, okay. So here's my key problem. The law is inherently inconsistent because you have now not adapted the other twenty articles to this article because you deleted one. That's a fact. When I listen to the Minister, I would say that efforts are going in the right direction, but I don't know if they are going in the right direction, because on the one hand we do have cases of the la factory sugar Ormož, on the other hand we have positive cases. I can personally tell you one experience that the Minister will remember. On 13 May 1999, I was transferred from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to today's Faculty of Security Sciences, and this was explained to be urgent human resources needs. 91st Article of the Law on Home Affairs or the former Law on Home Affairs. But my first school class was next March, because then it's pretty clear that someone moved you out of the blue, and he was referring to emergency needs, and then nine months, you don't actually have anything to do in college. Look, I went into a conflict with the state at the time, and this lawyer and I used to go out there and enjoy those treatments. Before treatment, we had coffee and after treatment. And she both agreed that the conflict would be lost. Of course, it was my interest, as long as it lasted, the better. Why? Because you'll get as much as you can. And this attorney had no authority to say, "Stop, end, settle, for sure." If I had that power, I'd probably have saved the country half a million dollars at the time, I'd say. But they're gone. If the law goes in this direction, I think it is also right, in fact it is good that at a certain point a state lawyer, today a lawyer, says, "I am not going to settle here." Now, another key problem remains in this marriage. Does it make sense to be with these people just for that official or official status? I don't think it makes any sense, because in any case, you have a judge who's an officer, an attorney who's an official, and one who's a civil servant. Now they were at least formally at the same level. That explanation, because they're officials, you can't ask them what they're doing, I don't think that counts. I don't think it counts, and it has to count, and it can be stamped if the boss orders it. There's no reason not to, but I personally don't know if I'd go into a fight with them because you're now in conflict with everyone. I don't know if there's a state's attorney today who would hope to take a public stand in front of the camera and say he supports it. I don't think he's here. I don't think he's here. I wouldn't go into trouble with everyone. However, the law also has, and should say so, I hope that there will be another debate in this Chamber before we go with this law forward, because, as you know, the current lawyers want to have a public presentation of the opinions so that they can hear them too in this Chamber. I think it would make it possible for them to do that, and they'll tell. I, too, am not personally impressed with those views: status, wages, money, and so on. It's also so "I can't hear well" in this ear if you call it that. However, there is a law, which must be said again, a series of certain decrees, and I will now take a little walk through these provisions, which point to some kind of subordination of this service to the executive branch. Look, today we're saying that the Attorney General's Office under the current law is a stand-alone state authority. That's what Article 2 says. The appropriations for its operation shall be provided in the budget, including Article 2, and the powers of the Minister shall be explicitly defined. In short, today's marriage spells out exactly what the minister can and can't do. And this line is pretty clear, but they're officials. But now in the proposal you say that it is autonomous and autonomous in accordance with the provisions of this law. This means that he is independent and autonomous as much as the policy will allow or as the law will allow. That's a pretty big difference if we're looking at it. Then it is in the second paragraph that the Ministry oversees the work of the state's attorney. I don't know what to say about this. This can be good, on the one hand, but it can be bad. Why? I'm not going to be personal now, far away from this, but, look, any minister, if this definition stays in there, he'll actually be able to say, and this case will be engaged, because now you still have in the law a determination that it's possible to engage professional assistance. Who's going to be this expert help? And if there is an excessive possibility of intervention by the minister, this minister, any minister, will be able to say at any point: "Oh, no, no, no, this case is so demanding, let me hire external experts. But you know, that law firm is good." And the employee, after the new no longer the official, will respect this and will go one important part of the money can also on the policy’s wish to get out — to the law offices. That's quite a possible story. This part of the decision on whether and when to engage these external experts seems to me that we should leave the professions and the inability of the policy a little bit more concrete. Because at any time, like the owner of Mirag, when we know that he was extremely connected with the policy, specifically with the Minister of Interior of that time, and if this minister were a justice minister and if this law were in force in this dispute, this dispute would probably have been represented by the worst lawyer of the state. Why? So the state loses because his friend gets the money. We in law have to rule out all such possibilities in my opinion and make the system so that it can't be done. If I finish. I think you need to go in some direction that's called greater responsibility. What happened to the sugar thing? Yeah, nothing. If I know anything, it's all out of date. But it's not, I don't know, but maybe I don't have the right data. [[…]] But it doesn't matter. Mainly, if you hadn't talked to the Ministry, nothing would have happened on that side. It would be the same as Mrs Bettto's: no one will be responsible for the established wills. So that, on the one hand, some mechanisms should be put in place to increase the responsibility of this service of the State and, on the other hand, to limit those so pronounced possibilities for external expertise to influence and engage. Although the Ministry's purpose was also this, the article, which is no longer, clearly states that matters may be assigned outside the State's Attorney's Office to qualified lawyers or lawyers. The purpose has gone this way, but you know, now I don't know what to say. If so, then we should probably recalculate the salaries of these state lawyers and say what is cheaper for the country now, whether we have this job or whether we will hire some law firm to take over these things at some invitation. That's to be considered. If I finish, I'll say so. The fundamental problem, once again, you had an article that stipulated that things could go out, that went out this article, and as a result, there were no corrections to about 20 articles which, according to my assessment, were tied to that. In this context, the thing is unconstant, that's for sure. What I said was that we really need to think about the mechanisms for establishing these people's responsibilities, and on the other hand, we need to think about whether to intervene in this status if this status means so much to them, because I don't know how much money the state will save. Probably nothing. There is also a major problem for current lawyers with transitional and final provisions, where they remain in office until their term of office. But whoever comes tomorrow, he's gonna be a regular employee. Even those who now have, say, five years to the end of their term of office, and those who have one year to the end of their term of office, I think that some mechanisms have been put in place that I think are not the most appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u121	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent is in charge. Goran Klemenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Vice President. As regards the impact of the Ministry of Justice or the supervision of the Ministry of Justice, Article 3 actually states: “The Public Prosecutor’s Office acts professionally and takes into account the interests of the party represented, in accordance with the principle of mutual representation.” In Article 2, in the fifth paragraph: "The Ministry of Justice shall supervise the work of the State's defence attorney in accordance with the provisions of this Act." I know, further, in Article 3, in the fifth paragraph, that we have specifically discussed this with the State Attorney's Office, the current one, "the Ministry takes into account the independence of the exercise of the powers of the State's defence and must not interfere with the decisions of the state's lawyers in individual matters." This is one of the rare laws which, at the level of supervisory functions of any department in relation to certain agencies or independent authorities, represents such a very strong protector. It's just because we wanted to show that we're never going to get involved and we can't get involved. You yourself have said that there is a possibility that certain matters may be dealt with, but only with the agreement of the Attorney General, if this law is adopted, will external legal advisers be given a new assignment. You also said that it was supposed to somehow hurt, in narration, 20 different articles. I really don't know, and my colleague and I have been talking about what these articles are supposed to be, and I'm going to tell you why this article came in and how it would be coordinated. Our desire in general or our interest and I think it is a common public interest that the State's defence would represent as many interests of the Republic of Slovenia as possible in various legal disputes. But it certainly cannot be if I now give the case before us, arbitration due to the border, Slovenia-Croatia. This cannot be represented only by Slovenian state defence or by Slovenian state attorneys. That's probably what we all agree on. And in such cases, the law will specify the possibility of an exception, in which only with the cooperation of the Attorney General, the current Advocate General may also engage external aid, which we think is the only right thing to do. There are a number of exceptions to representation before either the European Court of Human Rights or to representation before the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg or in international arbitration. And the last thing. See, even if this law is to be adopted, and I hope that it will be adopted, the transition will be relatively long because transitional provisions guarantee the protection of the rights acquired. That's a fact. Today, state attorneys are appointed to office, with a multi-annual term of office, and we do not want, nor would it be fair to interfere with the law and thus expose ourselves to unnecessary unrest within the legal organisation, where there would be problems as to what people are going to do in the future and, secondly, possible legal dispute. Therefore, if, before this law is enacted, if it is finally adopted, and I believe that, in one form or another, it will be, because it is good for the Republic of Slovenia, someone appointed as a public defender after the existing law will last seven, perhaps even eight years before he becomes, as you say, a public servant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u123	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the word to prepare the mag. Dusan Verbich and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Law on State Advocates is an important law which I believe will have a significant impact on the fact that the representation of the State's interests in litigation and arbitration matters will be carried out more responsibly than before. The Minister of State explained today in the National Assembly why it is necessary to transform the State Attorney's Office into a state attorney. He gave a number of reasons for reshaping, indicating that this law should be adopted. Since I have quite a bit of time, I will touch upon the main solutions of this law. A proposal for a law establishes the State's defence as a special body, which will be independent and autonomous and rename state lawyers to state lawyers, who will be public servants, except for the Attorney General and his deputy, who will remain officials. I understand that this provision is causing current lawyers a lot of problems because their status is changing. By reminding them that they retain the current salary of officials so that they will not experience injustice or any deterioration in the situation. Establishment of an independent commission to assess the eligibility of candidates. This is also an important commission, in the process of selecting the most suitable candidates for the post of Advocate General and Senior State Lawyers, the Sui Genis of the Commission is envisaged to assess the suitability of these candidates. It will be more appropriate to identify the bodies of representation. The draft law provides that the State and State authorities shall be represented before the courts in the Republic of Slovenia. Advisory function. This function will be strengthened in all matters relating to the protection of property rights, the interests of the Republic of Slovenia with a value of more than EUR 100 000 and matters containing more complex legal issues, provided for the pro-activity of the Government, which will have to obtain a prior opinion from the State's defence in these matters. A more detailed definition of the procedure for a peaceful settlement of the dispute. It is important to seek solutions to the disputed relations before a fair or other procedure is instituted. The goal is to relieve the state's attorneys. The draft law clearly states that an attempt to resolve the dispute peacefully in a preliminary procedure is a condition for the imposition of a fair or other procedure, or that the action or other motion to initiate a decision is rejected. That's what the minister's been talking about today. More appropriate arrangements for representation before foreign courts and foreign arbitrations and international courts and international arbitrations. In the current regulation, representation before foreign and international courts is regulated jointly and in a very general manner. The proposal for this law, however, separates the issue of representation before foreign and international courts, since it is a very different aspect of representation. Representation before international courts will be the responsibility of the international department, now of the European Section, and representation before foreign courts will continue to be the responsibility of other substantively competent departments. The fundamental difference is that international law is applied in proceedings before international courts and foreign law is applied in proceedings before foreign courts. Compared to the current regime, the competence of the State's defence attorney is explicitly extended to representation before foreign arbitration and international arbitration. In the context of representation before international courts and international arbitration, the question of delegation of representation is regulated in the same way as in the current regulation, and it is further specified that the representative may be a Slovenian national only. In order to assist in the representation, the Government may, at the request of the Advocate General, also engage another professionally qualified domestic or foreign legal or natural person. Inter-State procedures and procedures before international courts and international arbitration, which have more important international or non-political implications and or influences, also provide for the active role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Strengthening the autonomy of state lawyers. The bill is based on the strengthened role of the State's lawyer, and the proposal for a law proposes to move away from the established guidelines and instructions on the basis of which state lawyers are represented under the current regulation. This is Article 7 of the Law on State Advocates. Following the proposed arrangement, state lawyers from the parties represented are expected to receive all available information on the case, but representatives will no longer be obliged to provide guidance. Accordingly, state lawyers will be independent and bound by the rules of the legal profession in the performance of their legal representation tasks on a case-by-case basis. Ensuring the public's work. An important contribution is made to the transparency of the exercise of the powers of the State's attorney, according to the applicant's assessment, by the provision that the State's defence will lead and publish and regularly update on its website information on the performance of the tasks it will carry out under its powers. This means a more transparent functioning of the State's defence attorney than has been the exercise of this responsibility by the state's defence attorneys so far. Possibility of temporary deployment of a state lawyer to another state authority. That's one way to go. Then it's the disciplinary responsibility of state lawyers. That's an important news. The proposal for a law sets out tax acts which constitute a breach of the official duties of a public lawyer. The bill distinguishes between disciplinary sanctions for easier disciplinary infringements because in the proceedings the injured person may be punished in disciplinary proceedings with a written warning or a fine of 50 % of the monthly salary and disciplinary sanctions for more serious disciplinary infringements with a penalty of no more than 80 % of the full-time salary of the state's full-time lawyer. In addition, disciplinary authorities, the Disciplinary Prosecutor, his Deputy, the Disciplinary Commission of the first stage and the Disciplinary Commission of the second stage and the course of the disciplinary procedure are clearly defined. It is more appropriate to establish control over the functioning of the State's attorney. The area of supervision of the work of the State defence has not yet been established by law. The proposal for a law governs the relevant supervisory mechanism for the work of the State's attorney, to be carried out in the form of a general, partial or individual examination of the work of the State's lawyers and other civil servants by reviewing the files, the minutes and other documentation. I believe that the operation and work of the state's attorney will be significantly more transparent, significantly more responsible and therefore I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u125	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that, President. I must say, I am pleased that we have such different opinions from the debaters. I'll focus on one piece and maybe I'll have a completely different angle. For an introduction, I must admit that I am very pleased to ask the honourable Member of the Council, if it is possible that he will come forward and answer my question further, because I think he is the only one in the National Assembly who could at least give us in a grave an assessment that he had in a similar case. The fact is, when he was the Minister of the Interior, it happened that the judicial authority, in this case the prosecution, was somehow assigned if I had the right memory. Why do I ask that? Here today we are always talking about the defence of public officials, not to mention the media addresses, and I believe that even in the debate itself there is no fundamental point: are we satisfied with the work of state defence in the twenty years? Can we even talk about the state's defence against the state's attorney? In some ways, the well-respected minister also gave a bit of an indication. Here we are talking about or status, whether he is a state attorney or a lawyer — can we say that this is a subordinate position? You might be a little surprised, but I'm the only one who's always in a position of subjugation. First of all, if I give him the task of representing me, it should be the mayor, the minister, or anyone who is in charge, the government in the country, most likely to give him a specific task and direction. I suspect anyone who gives a task to someone to authorize him to lose in justice. We wouldn't even talk about that. And the fact that it's a dilemma, whether he's dependent or not, we're blurring it out. For it is my duty to monitor the direction of the process, but monitoring does not mean that it interferes with some process of managing the process and using the material law for the final outcome, and that is success or victory in justice. And here maybe I have a completely different vision. In an economy where lawyers are authorised, it is quite clear that you are willing to pay an unusually high price for success. Success in justice guarantees you the right or benefit you lost in some disputed case, and when you win, you get everything back. And here I do not see any difference between the defence, which is in the interests of the State's lawyer, as well as lawyers in the economy or civil disputes. I had to expose that. Above all, what I've said in the first place is whether we're satisfied with the defense. If he looks back a little bit, the Ministry of Justice has asked the State Attorney's Office in some way to answer why there have been so many delayed judgments in the period 2010-2015 due to the inaction of the State's defence. I think that these are the facts that we need to discuss today, which way the state wants to have, no matter what the lawyer is called, that he will effectively and effectively represent him in justice, or that he will issue such opinions and positions, which in some way, in the legal language we say, drink water, that those who decide in some way on further matters will be immediately lost or in a subordinate position if there is a fair dispute, or follow a goal that may also be a limit in the final stage. And the fact is that the response of the defence or the explanation was that most of these cases were attributed to the incorrect recording of the data in the individual registers. What I find to be frightening is the inactivity of individual officials in bringing lawsuits. Now I am not going to go into the relationship of an officer who grants a case or resigns, or an attorney or, as we speak today, a lawyer who takes over the case. If these matters are not settled, then it is a matter of the executive branch of power, which has simply not wanted to cut down all these years and it was quite simple for her to do so. Why do I mention here the executive branch of power? This is because the presentation of the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre made it very clear that the Office of Defence is part of the executive branch of the Authority. I think we are not wrong here, because the Constitutional Court has made very clear what judicial authorities are: the prosecution, the defence, lawyers, notaries. Very clear. And the fact is that the so-called private part of notaries and lawyers is never a problem. The only problem is if they fail in justice in the direction that the contracting entity somehow expects. But when we touch the D.A. or the D.A., it's an eternal problem. And here I must admit that I may also be one of the few in this medium, which will increasingly follow initiatives and proposals, regardless of who is investing them in individual laws, because this is the only way that we can move things a little bit towards the direction that our electorates and citizens expect, and most likely also some Members of this national assembly. I have deliberately mentioned this, because in the preceding paragraph, when the opposition party's proposal was put forward, and then, you know, the well-intentioned words that are being copied, and the abuse is getting less and less interested in how these things are going. [[…]] Both I and most likely a lot of people in this country are interested in the effect and if I'm on the prosecution. It doesn't help if we have great laws. Nothing helps if we have empties. It doesn't help if we have hundreds of charges filed. I'm referring to a so-called bank hole. How many such charges are there that specialized courts can decide? I think we need to be slowly aware of this, not who, but what, but for moments, we need to be so objective and go in the direction of that mission that we have in some way. I'm aware that I may have some criticism in one way or another. With regard to this law, I must admit that I would most likely like to comment further, but I must also give my colleague some time. In view of the fact that there has been a speech that attorneys should now be granted the status of public servants. I also have to admit in the interview or presentation of individual Members that when we touch public servants, they are dependent and so on. I think that all the debaters who touch on such matters simply have to realize that this is not true. 33 or 34 thousand civil servants in the State Administration are mainly part of these public servants who work solely on the basis of the procedural rules of the Administrative Regulation, the Judicial Procedure Act and the substantive rules, is said by law. It is true, however, that the procedures or missions of public servants who decide on individual rights must be very clearly separated here. Here we do wrong that then such public servants are through by some order or order and so on. Yes, the other service of the State, I agree, but there is a greater impact of the direct employer, director or director of the Directorate and so on. Here I would like to ask that when the debate is that it is not always as a well-known constitutional lawyer wrote in the media, “not always being a public servant with some pedigree of inferiority”. That's not true. Since the fact is that 100 and so many thousands of public servants are employed, it is simply necessary to recognise that this service is needed, but it is really important, in what amount and in what individual cases there are also derogations. If I go back to the attorney general's office. At this moment, I am very happy that the proposal of this law has come to light. I can tell you, Minister, you could have come sooner. Given that today’s theme of the National Assembly is primarily a judicial theme, including others. But I am firmly in the position that this kind of thing, regardless of which direction the decision is going to be, is closer to your first thesis before it turns out to be one part of the officials and the other part of the public servants. However, usually a mixture is not good. Although we repeatedly refer to an agreement or an intermediate route. I believe and understand here the response of the defence that there is dissatisfaction, because either they are entirely under some jurisdiction of the Ministry or they are independent. Here I am joining those who have made very clear in the debate, we simply need to be interested in responsibility and efficiency. I hope that we will bring this law through this debate and that all the comments will be included. In the end, it will be necessary to make a decision, but especially in that such reports will not then reveal why there are so many delayed judgments in the year two or three. And for the end, just two more words. As a rule, we are most aware of the work of the defence, to be at work, which is usually because it is an integral part of the public sector, and that which is also, in some ways, a topic in this national assembly, which is likely to be increasingly at the forefront, is denationalisation. Those of you who have met a bit in the past mainly with the denationalisation process are frankly part of the category that gives criticism to the defence. Such proceedings, which have been taking place for decades, are not due to the decision of the executive branch of the Authority or of the defence, but mainly because of the various experts involved in the proceedings, but from the agricultural sector and the construction sector, I do not know what else. And here, as lawyers, in this case, I personally believe that we should be more determined to intervene in such matters and not leave ourselves to some procedural procedure which is primarily dictated by the interest of those who want the proceedings to remain open as long as the so-called means are available. If I finish. I welcome this kind of law, and I am sure that, in the following, Minister, you will examine really all the serious concerns and reasons and that the State's defence is formed and acted in a manner similar to that of counsel. But let's not blind ourselves to the fact that it's free. Such a state's attorney has a cost as well as a private lawyer. But success in justice is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u127	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Igor Zorčič and then to conclude the general debate, a representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Now the debate has calmed down somehow. It's very important that we stay with the content, but I can't help but remember the minister, who initially showed a lot of concern when I was in the hall, even with his name and surname. I thank him very much, given that he is leaving this room very much today, as well as in the introductions, I was in the hall, and he was not when the point began. So I'm really grateful that you exposed me and even remembered my name. Now, seriously, to the content. The Minister has somehow wanted to say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we now do not want any changes, that we do not want any new solutions in the field of defence and so on. That's not what was said in the position. However, it has been said that many arguments or opinions have been made by the professional public that the proposed solutions are not good. They were mentioned, and I specifically said where some of the dilemmas were, I didn't even talk about whether we had to support them at all costs, but I said something else. You know, you, Minister, in the past, when you were president of the KPK, I remember this well when you were talking about how important it is when different laws are being passed, how bad Janša's government is doing, because it has a lot of laws that follow some quick procedures, it is said in forms where a broader debate is not possible, that there is really a real confrontation of opinions and that this is bad for transparency and so on. Today we have this first part, but in my position I have warned that there has not been a real public confrontation of opinions on the whole of matter. There have been individual debates, but there has not been a proposal in such a form as today. The professional public could not comment on its opinions and views in a broader public debate. That is why I also said that it would probably be necessary to consider at this stage, however, that one public debate should be made, that the professional public should be invited, and that all these arguments on one side of the ministry and on the one hand the arguments of the professional public and other stakeholders may be taken up again, but perhaps in some steps things are getting closer. Finally, the worst part is that we think that ours or yours or any of the solutions are the best and that they cannot be complemented. And here I think it's your weakness, Minister, when you were about to introductoryly say that you believe you're behind this proposal. Take it easy with those words. You've already burned yourself many times with your decisions. So when you were Secretary of State once at Katarina Kresal's, like you did at the KPK, so I'd be careful. Not that you may not believe in certain things, but you always have to allow the possibility that things can be improved. I'm going to say again things that I think are controversial when you're setting up a new body so that it will be more effective in order to work better. I still argue that the Authority can be more effective in the first place if it does have a sufficient number of resources. If we know that some procedures are long, they take a very long time, this does not mean when we talk about the State's defence that these people are doing bad. We've heard before how long a thing can happen, but it eventually comes to a solution. And what is fundamental in this matter is that the State's defence is not only a defender of the state in that work, but that the defender is the right defender and must protect the public interest, which is also in some parts over the country. It is said that when someone suggests something, it is not said that the state's attorney must follow him as one extended term, as one toy, in order to be an intermediary, an agent. Then here's the part where I got involved in the debate that I feel like there's a proposal for a motion for a motion for a dismissal of the defence in some way. Why am I saying this? A so-called analysis, functional analysis, the idea of the status transformation of the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia was also made. At the end of this stage, the Minister also speaks of a change in the State's defence, or a change in the idea of hiring a private lawyer's office, which is institutional for the abolition of the State's defence. It's an extract from this analysis. If you don't know her, look at her. This analysis also speaks very well of this, but it seems to me that it is important what will be the organizational image of the State's defence for the future. Thus, there were doubts as to whether it would be an independent and independent body, as an authority of the state administration, or whether it would be a public agency. This was the first in this series, a genuine organisational contract in the future, and it is also concluded with the thought that the matter could be replaced by a lawyer's office. This is where the image disintegrates when we want to say in some way that the defence is also responsible for having someone over it. I agree. Today, it has been said several times that there must be no system over which only the blue sky is above it. But things need to be arranged in such a way that they will not only be extended by the Minister. I'm not just reading you here, Minister. You're here today. There'll be someone else tomorrow. Then this is pure politicization. Last but not least, the top, the head of the defence or the attorney's office will be appointed by the minister or the government, I apologize. Why the government? I'm wondering why the government is here. If someone has to do so because we are talking about a decision, not least it will be political, then let the National Assembly do it, because then it will be a big one. However, it is a matter of some breadth, but at least some kind of debate. The fact that someone is called Government – well, you all know how things work on the government. This is the same as saying that the minister or the one who is the main decision-maker in the government will propose it. Maybe the president of the National Assembly. However, the fact is that it would be very good for us to make such a thought in this work, and then spread the matter. Earlier, something had also been said about status — an official and a civil servant. I think there's a difference. I think the difference is also in the process when you find these two functions: a judge, an attorney at some stage where the arguments need to be faced. I can do it in the process. Can anyone tell me what kind of attitude this will be: an officer, on the other hand a public defender? Yeah, look, his arguments will know exactly that he's a public servant, that he's totally dependent, that he only has to speak what he's been asked to say, otherwise [[…]] [[claps with your fingers]] Don't you? That's a weakness. They therefore warned that these solutions did not go in the direction of increasing the rule of law, justified and justified. I hope, Minister, that you have some more time to make all things happen again. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u129	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor and then a representative of the Government should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I see that I am more brief in time, but perhaps I would like to draw attention to certain matters that have been highlighted during today's debate. The bill we have on the table sets out one of the important innovations, and I welcome it, namely the removal of guidance. Many cases are well known when we, who have ever participated in any court proceedings, when a settlement could take place by nature, but the state's attorney did not have this option, did not receive instructions to settle. However, in view of this arrangement, which has been exposed today, it is that, according to the new state's attorney general and his deputy, that they have the status of an official and other staff members or state lawyers the status of public servants, I still have concerns which, in my opinion, will also be defined by the Law and Law Service. This is also one of the reasons why I am going to confirm this law today, that it will go into further consideration, since the Civil Servants Act states this. On the one hand, if we say that state lawyers will be free in their decisions, on the other hand, the Law on Public Servants states: “In carrying out their work a public servant must follow the instructions of the superior, unless by law he is bound to follow the instructions of the superiors. A public servant may request a written order and a written instruction if he considers that the content of the oral order or oral instruction is unclear.” In short, public servants are not independent in their decisions. According to the law, they are subordinates or superiors, from whom they receive certain instructions. If we are to establish a system whereby the state's attorney is as independent as possible, we need to look at the legislation we have in the field of prosecution. We've talked about this before today. We were talking about whether the prosecutor should be independent or not when he stops the criminal proceedings when he dismisses the criminal charge. The bill is designed to give some kind of signature to his superior, the head of the prosecution. However, this too is likely to be in the light of the State Prosecutor's Act, which states that the State Prosecutor is independent and bound by the Constitution and the law in the performance of the State Prosecutor's Office. The Attorney General is independent and may even propose to deal with the infringement if he considers that his independence has been violated. If we are to play a role as a state's attorney and we want to make it as independent as possible, perhaps not as the state's attorney, we must turn these provisions of the law in this direction. As I mentioned earlier, I believe that the Legislative and Legal Service will remind us of these differences, on the one hand, the stated autonomy of the body, not of an individual state attorney, and on the other hand its comparison with the state prosecutor. Certain questions remain open. I believe that we will respond to them during the course of the process and, in fact, I am already looking forward to the opinions of the Legal and Legal Service and the procedure in the next phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u131	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. The word is from a government representative, Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to answer a few questions for a moment. Earlier it was said that in the analysis we also highlighted the possibility – now colleague Anja Bah Žibert is not here – that in fact we would sort of refer this out to the law offices. Here we have to say very clearly, and I think this is also an indisputable result, we have been honest and we have done a rather extensive and fair functional and comparative analysis – the regulation of the country's representation across Europe. Here is the fact that some have a public administration body, many countries have such a body subordinated to the Ministry of Finance, some have a subordinated Ministry of Justice, some have a subordinate government. Very few countries have a single organ. However, those who do have it do not have the same autonomy as the current State Attorney's Office. Many countries and, above all, Scandinavian countries actually tender and hire legal offices. And that works well for them. In Slovenia this would not work well, it would be too many corruption risks and so on. In this part alone, we have also highlighted this possibility. Why does the Government, according to the proposal of the law, set up, not the Ministry of Justice of the Attorney-General? Because the State's Attorney's Office is part of the executive branch of power. And this is one of the points where everyone, including constitutional experts, who have some major, other minor concerns about the new regime, agreed. The State's Attorney's Office is part of the executive branch. There's no doubt about that. Like the State's Attorney's Office, of course, with some extra security guards. But many years ago, when we established this country, we raised the state's defences almost to the level of justice, to the level of an independent judiciary, which has certain advantages, but this also has to do with the problems that we face and encounter in those countries where they have similar arrangements. This, as I have already said, is only Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in part, Serbia. As regards the transfer from officials to public servants, we absolutely agree that a state attorney cannot be a classical public servant. In a broader sense, he is a public servant in the Slovenian system due to wage policy, of course, and we all know that, including a doctor and a judge and a public servant in the administrative unit and an employee in the ministry. We are all part of this large family of Slovenian state administration or public administration in a broader sense. Therefore, it is very important that he has a marriage, and I believe he already has many guards in which he gives these public servants special status. As with some other laws, other public servants are given special status in cases where their function so requires. Like the inspectors. Inspectors are independent in the performance of their function, and they are public servants, not officials. Let's say the investigators, if you want, apply to every cop or criminal, but the investigators of the National Investigation Office are public servants, and the law on the police or the new law on the organisation and tasks of the police gives them special status. And we do the same with the State Attorney's Law. They go through special selection procedures, they have special protection of their status, I will not say a function because they are not officials, and they have special rights. I'd say that in the end. I think today's debate, here I'm even going to quote what my secretary of state said earlier about the law on the Council of Justice, and I've heard that, was useful in the sense that it was a public debate. We have not, you know, stuck in this bill in the sense that it is the greatest and best possible solution. However, we are stuck in the need to move forward in this area. I think most solutions are good. We have closely followed the debate in Parliament both by the opposition and by the position. We expect that a committee which I hope will be able to take the next step, if you confirm this law today as suitable for further consideration, may also come with some improvement. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u133	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Nobody. Then I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, it is on the eve of a proposal for a decision to amend the decision establishing the world for radiodifusion. The draft decree was tabled by the Committee on Culture. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 17th regular meeting on 2 February 2017, on the basis of Article 169a and Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted a proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council. The Media Act in Article 100 defines the Broadcasting Council as an independent expert body and defines its powers and composition, the appointment of members of the Council and its President and the duration of their mandate. The fifth paragraph of Article 100 provides that a more precise organisation and functioning of the world shall be determined in accordance with this Act by the National Assembly in the act establishing it. The decree establishing the Broadcasting Council was adopted by the National Assembly 19. Seven. He also appointed seven members of the Council in 2001 and in point 4. In accordance with Rule 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly ruled by decree on elections, appointments and discharges. The current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide for a decision in Article 112 as the form of an act by which the National Assembly decides on elections, appointments and discharges, so that the proposed amendment of the decree excludes and aligns this content with the applicable rules of procedure. The Committee on Culture, as its mother's working body, has drawn up a proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council, which is decided by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u135	I must conclude that there are no candidates for the debate and that no amendments to the motion for a decree have been tabled, and therefore the decision on the motion for a decision will be made in accordance with the half-hour meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, as well as the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u136	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 12, 13, 15, 17, 14, 16, 18, 4, 5, 6 and 9 of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 12th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Justice. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the Council of Justice is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 3. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 49. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 49.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on State Lawyerry. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Law on State Counsel is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Broadcasting Council. As no amendment has been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a decree. There are 74 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, and no one opposed. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda this is the first reading of the draft law on apprenticeship. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on apprenticeship is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against and three against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth, as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk. Since the amendments to the amended motion for a decree have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree amending the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk as a whole. I am informing you that I have not been warned by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendment adopted on the working body would have led to a motion for a decision being inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation for the establishment of effective legal protection in the event of the dismissal of a criminal charge. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a recommendation to establish effective legal protection in the event of the dismissal of a criminal complaint is not appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour and 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and therefore the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Law on Personal Assistance under the regular procedure. On Tuesday 14 February 2017, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the draft law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal for a decree inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much, President. At the previous session at the second reading, I heard that this was a historic moment. I will say that I am pleased that all Members here have actually come to understand that we will do a good thing and allow the disabled the right to personal assistance. This is what we have not been called to our seats to do together. I hope good cooperation in regulating early treatment, in regulating long-term care also in the future, but also on behalf of the disabled organisations with which I have spoken these days, have said that they will send thanks to everyone alike, but I should also publicly thank on behalf of the disabled organisations all the Members you have actually helped to make this law available to those who actually need a personal assistant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u138	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I would not now talk about the historic moment, I would say just this, perhaps this will not be a great act for us when we press, I believe that everyone in this room will have a great deal of action and a great promise for all those who will enjoy the fruits of this law, so I am convinced that this message is not only in a way that we are going to vote on a single law today, but that we will actually strive to implement this law to help those who are needed and thereby enable them to have a better perspective, a better tomorrow, and especially a better and better life. On this occasion, I must also thank all those who have helped in this law, that its application has also taken place, and that it will actually make a great contribution to all who will benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-17-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u140	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal for a law on cross-border service delivery under the regular procedure. On Tuesday 14 February 2017, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, the third reading of the draft law would take place. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I would like to inform you that the Government has warned me that the draft law on the basis of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body has been inconsistent and has therefore prepared a harmonisation amendment to Articles 5, 9a, 10 and 22 which was published on the e-club. Do Members and Members want the word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers in the framework of the regular procedure. On Tuesday 14 February 2017, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour body or the National Assembly in the second reading would not have brought the proposal of the law into line. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 21. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Judicial Procedure of Regular Procedure. On Wednesday, 15 February 2017, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 16. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 27th meeting of the National Assembly.
