ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Violeta Tomić from 12.15 to 19.30, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 11 p.m. to 14 p.m., Mrs Vesna Vervega until 11 p.m., Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik, Mrs Iva Dimic from 14 p.m. and Luka Mesec from 15 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Act on Economic Companies within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament and other present, well-welcome! I thank you for the opportunity to present in a few words the content of the bill. You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies, which transposes into the Slovenian legal order the Directive on the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large companies and groups, and partly the Directive on the integration of central and commercial registers. Both Directives provide a shorter complement to the accounting directives already adopted and to the integration of registers between EU Member States. The bill is aimed primarily at harmonising the Slovenian acquis with both Directives, increasing the transparency and comparability of non-financial information between companies, increasing the social responsibility and performance of companies, and eliminating the inconsistencies of the current GNI. With regard to the transposition of the supplementary accounting directive, the draft law establishes an obligation for large companies which are public-interest entities and whose average number of employees is greater than 500 to attach to the business report a statement of non-financial operations, establishes the obligation to prepare a declaration of non-financial activity for large companies which are public-interest entities and are bound by Article 56 of the SAG to the preparation of the consolidated annual report and whose average number of employees at group level is greater than 500. A statement on non-financial transactions will have to be drawn up in the form of a special report and will be included as a specific section of the business report in the same way as the statement of management of the company. The declaration will contain non-financial information related to environmental, social and human rights issues and respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery. Solutions to the bill related to the transposition of the Directive on the integration of central and trade registers form the basis for electronic communication between central and commercial companies and registers of companies of EU Member States. However, the proposal complements and improves the current regulation of the CSG by supplementing the provision of Article 15 of the CAG governing the use of the name of Slovenia, complementing the provision relating to the maintenance of basic capital and its unauthorised intervention with a view to improving the business operations of entrepreneurs in practice and facilitating the operation of AJPES, complementing certain provisions concerning entrepreneurs, introducing some less demanding amendments and supplementing the law to address the shortcomings of the existing regulation. Finally, I should like to point out that the provisions of the bill do not affect in any way the fundamental systemic solutions in the field of economic societies. We are convinced that the new obligation to report non-financial information improves the quality of information disclosed by companies in terms of protection of human rights, environmental protection, social, human resources and the like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Mark Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team and everyone else! The Committee on the Economy is at its 24th session. 3. dealt with the above-mentioned proposal for a law. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was also provided with the following material, namely the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments of the European Institute for Economic Coherence and Ethics and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the following parliamentary groups: SDS, SMC, Desus and SD, and by the Joint Left Group. Members and members of the Committee were also invited to attend the meeting by the Committee's amendment to Article 20, which was also adopted by the Committee and is reflected in the report of the Committee. At the meeting, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the service in a written opinion had made concrete proposals to the individual articles and the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were fully addressed. She also explained that the service agreed with the Committee's amendment to Article 20. In the debate, the members and members of the committee supported the proposed solutions in large part, expressing the view that the proposed legislative changes would have positive effects on the functioning of business systems. The debate also highlighted the positive importance of the proposed solutions in the light of the strengthening of a broader and longer-term relationship between companies and the environment and nature. Individual discussers expressed doubts about the objectivity of disclosure of information on past experience and the need to establish control in this area as well. In the context of the debate on the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 11, the amendment's proposer stressed the importance of the proposed disclosure of non-financial indicators throughout the course of the creation of the product or the provision of services. In accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 20 and, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted the following amendments to the coalition, namely Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 21 and 24. It also adopted the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 21. The Committee did not accept the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 11, and at the same time the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2 became irrelevant. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them in full. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text has been prepared. However, the amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of the Economy, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Law on Economic Companies. This law is being examined by the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. The proposal to amend and amend the law into the Slovenian legal order transposes the provisions of the European directives. However, in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal for a law again interferes with Section 1 of the Economic Companies Act relating to balance sheets, which transposes Directive 2014/95 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 and amends Directive 2013/34 as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on the diversity of certain large companies and groups. The main objective of the directive is to improve social responsibility and to achieve which companies must also take social and environmental issues into account in their operations and adoption of the strategy. Transparency of so-called non-financial information can help companies to better carry out non-financial risks and opportunities and thus enable them to improve their non-financial performance. They are also important sources of information for future investors, relating to the preparation of reports on non-financial information to be provided by large companies and the reporting of data to the register. In addition, the amendment specifies the use of the word Slovenia in companies. In addition to the declaration of non-financial operations in accordance with Directive 2013/34, Article 70 provides for the obligation to include in the business report a statement on the management of the company. The statement of management of the company shall include a statement whether the company uses a code in its business, a reference to that code, its public accessibility and the indication of individual provisions of a code which the company did not comply with on a reasoned basis. The aim of that provision is to create a transparent, efficient and understandable management system that builds the confidence of investors, employees and the general public in the corporate governance system. The proposal for a law therefore eliminates some of the shortcomings of the existing regulation, which Slovenia has already been warned about by the European Commission. With the transposition of the two European directives, Slovenia has been late again for more than a year. The non-financial statement refers to the past business period and contains data on environmental, social and human rights issues, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery issues. This will give businesses more administrative costs on the one hand, but it is mainly large businesses, as the Ministry of Economy representatives have said. In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, they add that the newly created costs in these companies will be proportionate to the intended benefits and that the amendment of the law is expected to partially relieve small and medium-sized enterprises, which will not prepare reports on the policy of diversity by sex, age, education of members of management and control bodies. In the area of integration of central and commercial registers and company registers, the Company Act is complemented by a provision on mandatory reporting in the register, including in cases of cross-border mergers of companies. In addition to the amendment to the Act, the provision on the use of the name Slovenia is amended, the discretionary right of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the use of the name Slovenia, flag or coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia in the company and the revocation of this authorisation. The bill also introduces two new offences, namely the use of a company which is contrary to Article 13 ZGD-1 and the use of the word Slovenia and the flag and coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia, which is contrary to Article 15 ZGD-1. The proposal to amend the law after a reduced procedure in the Slovenian Democratic Party as a majority of the laws that help to better manage large companies, and in particular to reduce the costs of medium and small enterprises, will be supported. Of course, we have also redrafted Amendment 2. A member. Even if the amendment is not voted on, we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u7	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Good afternoon, everyone! The reason for this time's amendment to the Company Act is the transposition of European directives into Slovenian legislation. The new is certainly an obligation for large companies that will have to include a non-financial statement in their reports from now on. It will have to contain data on environmental, social, human rights, respect for human rights and corruption risks, in short, all those elements that are crucial to shaping a successful long-term policy of the company. In the Desus Group, the proposed solution makes sense because it allows for a better insight into the functioning of an individual company, while at the same time offering answers to some additional questions. More and more important is how companies respond to current challenges, whose values they advocate and what their mission is. Non-financial information on financial indicators complements the image of the company itself and its development potential. Of course, financial success is important, but it is based on long-term success in maintaining a positive atmosphere in the company, developing a respectful and fair relationship and thus motivation for a successful work. In the Desus Group, we do not want this to be just an additional administrative burden on the composition of a business report to meet European standards. This is useful information that can make society even more successful, recognizable and friendly to the employees and the environment in which society operates. For example, important information includes respect for human rights. It is not just a principled, global view of society on this subject, for they consider concrete actions such as the attitude of society towards its employees. All too often, we hear about the abuse of workers' rights, which almost daily is pointed out by the media. A poor social picture of the company says a lot. In the Desus Group, we also welcome the provision by which companies bound by the audit should draw up a business report containing a policy of diversity of representation in the management and control bodies. The business council is still primarily a man's privilege. This results in differences in sexual and age structure. Discrimination and inequality are not good partners in the development and progress of companies as well as of society as a whole. The Business Council offers new views, fresh demands and challenges over and over again. Successful companies have already paid a lot of attention to employees, their relationship with them and their satisfaction, which has an important impact on results and finally on financial performance. It is right that this becomes a rule, so we will support the proposed amendment by Members and Members of the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u9	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state with her own! Ladies and gentlemen, today's amendments to the umbrella company law are to a large extent merely a compliance with the provisions of European law. It would be easy to eliminate them with a dry justification for the transfer to the Slovenian legal order. The new obligation, the so-called declaration of non-financial data, which will have to be published by all large companies with 500 or more employees, seems like another idea of European bureaucrats. But it's more important content than it seems at first sight. It's corporate social responsibility. It is a question of whether the sole purpose and purpose of companies is to create as much profit as possible for new owners or whether other objectives must be taken into account. This becomes particularly important when it comes to the business of large companies, which affect not only a large number of their employees, but also the many consumers and the environment in which they operate. For the bureaucratic form of the obligation of large companies to attach to their business reports a detailed statement on non-financial objectives, the conclusion is that a large company here is not only to generate profits, that it is important to do so, that it is important to have an environmental impact, that it is managed by only men or that it is working towards a more equal representation of women, that it is important that it is only for its shareholders or that it is also interested in other people, the environment and the world. In short, it is an obligation for large companies to make public, in addition to profits and classical business results, how socially responsible their business is. Does the obligation to publish all these data really affect the behaviour of large corporations? Experience has shown us that we do. Consumers are becoming aware. If they have this option, they will vote with their feet and thus punish the company to go too far in voting for profits. Not only have people proved more than once that they care about how businesses earn money. However, public information is crucial if people do not know, they cannot react. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the profits of the company and its social responsibility are not excluded. On the contrary, a company that does not look only at profits will therefore be more stable and successful in the long term. We are confident that, after a few years of publishing the data, there will also be a clear link to the cause and effect. Companies that give more to environmental protection, gender equality, labour standards and overall social benefits are not only good for their employees and the environment, but also for financial indicators and the final profits of owners. Some will ask why we do not commit all companies, not just those with 500 or more employees, to make such statements mandatory. It is simply a fact that the preparation of such a formal review for the company is extensive work and a considerable cost. Not because small businesses could not be required to be socially responsible, but because we believe that it is more reasonable for smaller companies to focus on practical measures that lead to their greater social responsibility. We should use common sense here more than marriage obligations. The European Directives introduce a new reporting obligation for large companies with 500 and more employees, so that they will not ultimately be more papal than the pope and make themselves more stringent demands for which some will eventually blame Europe. Social Democrats also support other solutions in the bill. This is mainly about harmonising publicly published data with consolidated annual reports and public regulation, which lays down the conditions for the use of the word Slovenia on behalf of an economic society. We believe that these administrative changes will allow further legality and less administrative barriers to users. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed amendments to the law. At the same time, we would like to see other measures in addition to administrative ones, which in practice would mean more social responsibility and economic democracy in Slovenian companies, even smaller ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u11	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! It's an attitude. This is a fairly technical proposal for a law, where the government regrets once again the conscious choice of a solution by having as few positive effects as possible. Therefore, in the United Left, we propose a supplement that expands the attempt to ensure corporate social responsibility by covering a larger number of companies and, in particular, their entire supply chain. The LAG is a key system law on economic law and is also one of the most recently amended laws. Of course, coordination with European directives is often also a reason. Let us ask ourselves what is the attitude of governments and ministries towards European legislation since we have been members of the European Union, not just these governments, not just those coalitions, but the previous ones. If this is the case, otherwise, in very rare cases, for positive provisions, workers, the environment, sustainable development, consumers would benefit from the transfer of provisions to Slovenian legislation in such a way as to minimise the benefit of those provisions. The argument is always the same, identical – suffocation of an economic initiative. When it comes to harmonising legislation that benefits elites and capital, coalitions and governments in this society behave more papally than the pope. A key change in the law is the disclosure of non-financial information. These are supposed to increase the social responsibility of businesses, where we will see or see how companies deal with the environment, people, employees. It's a pretty toothless thing, but it's better than nothing. What is completely confused with common sense, including common sense, is that from governments or coalition sides we hear as a positive argument that this obligation will apply to only a few 10 companies. The EU adopts a more transparent business provision and the MGRT Ministry of Field Affairs makes an effort to do so, and it also commends the fact that almost no one will have to comply with it. Bravo! Congratulations! The original bill also contained a provision on the liberalisation of the name of the Republic of Slovenia, flag and coat of arms for commercial purposes. With the amendment, the situation was partially remedied. But what does this tell us about the policy of this government? If we sell state symbols to make little money with this, which of course is also illegal, then we should not be surprised in the future if this government or a similar half of the citizens sell it into slavery to a financial fund. Such a bill, which plays out the positive content of the directive, cannot, of course, be supported. However, if Members and Members of the coalition, as well as the remnants of the opposition and the unrelated think otherwise than the MGRT, you can prove this by supporting our supplement, which broadens the obligation to publish non-financial information and adds the obligation to disclose business across the entire chain of suppliers and subscribers. More about the amendment in the debate. Since I have some time left, I'll say this. If we are seriously reading our Constitution and that part of it on an economic initiative, which also speaks of the social and environmental dimension, we should have something like this, governments, coalitions before this or that, in fact, even without this directive. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Novela of the Company Act brings about changes in several areas. We see some changes in Christian Democrats as meaningful. The proposal for a law in accordance with the Directive of the European Union exempts micro, small and medium-sized companies from the obligation to include a policy of diversity in the management or control of the company in a statement on the management of the company, which we welcome. The Novela also provides a slightly more specific regime for the conduct of registration authorities in the case of cross-border mergers of companies. The Act on the supervision of the implementation of the provisions on the obligation of management to agree with workers in the Slovenian language lays down the competence of the Labour Inspectorate. As a new offence, however, the use of misleading words in a company which could lead to a misappropriation of the company's business or identity. In Novi Slovenija we are pleased that when it comes to the use of the Slovenian flag and coat of arms in the company, the coalition took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Every proposal for a law that affects the business environment for the operation of economic operators in New Slovenia gives special attention to the question whether the proposed provisions also bring new administrative burdens to entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, in the draft laws that the National Assembly is considering, we often encounter more bureaucratic burdens than burdens. As inappropriate, we see provisions imposing an obligation on larger companies to attach a non-financial statement to the business report. This report contains information on environmental, social and human rights issues, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery issues. Although the obligation applies only to larger companies, in New Slovenia we see such reports as an unnecessary burden for companies to operate. Except for a bunch of paper and making unnecessary efforts for employees, such reports will bring nothing. The obligation of companies to re-write reports on content in the field of environment, social affairs, the fight against corruption and human rights, in our opinion, does not in any way improve the situation in this area, but brings only additional administrative burdens for businesses. We Christian Democrats are disappointed that in addition to some meaningful changes in the novel, the government has included new administrative burdens. That is why, in the New Slovenia Group, we cannot support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act. We will therefore abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u16	Dear President, the distinguished Secretary of State with the team, honourable Members and Members, I wish all of you a good day! We have before us an amendment to the Company Act in order to transpose certain directives of the European Community, to which Slovenia has also received a warning. Secondly, by amending and transposing directives, we are addressing certain shortcomings. If these shortcomings are resolved, positive effects on the functioning of business systems can also be expected. Why? We have an opinion that we can expect because the law provides only for additional business reporting, namely in the area of disclosure of non-financial information by a statement on non-financial transactions containing data on environmental, social and human rights matters and matters relating to the fight against corruption and bribery. And here we are asked: Will companies or business entities draw up objective reports or just draft reports to meet legal requirements? Controls, practically speaking, are not. The only one who's watching this is the auditor. But the auditor is limited, his role only to controlling the urgent formal perfection of these reports. This means that these reports can be subjective and in this case we can get incorrect information reflecting one another, not the actual situation of the business system in the area of non-financial transactions. As we know, business systems can often increase their competitiveness precisely in the area that I have mentioned — non-financial, by disregarding environmental directives, by violating human rights and, of course, by corruption and bribery. Who is the one who will also control these areas in these business reports? This is left to all of us, to the public and to institutions or bodies. So much for this area. The next area to be touched is a statement on the management of the company. We also see here that there can be positive effects, but only if these statements and these reports reflect the actual situation in business systems. Other changes, however, relating to, for example, the limitation of interference with the company's core capital, we see that this is extremely important, since this option is limited to intervention in basic capital and the exhaustion of companies, which, after all, also strengthens the security of the business environment. As I have said, we will support the proposal of the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members in spite of our concerns in certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished secretary of state with co-workers, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for this Act transposes the Directive of the European Union. The proposed amendments are without prejudice to fundamental systemic solutions in the field of company law. These are less complex amendments and amendments to the law, which are adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. The purpose of economic law is to set the framework for the creation of companies whose aim is to generate profits. At the same time, it is a statutory economic law in the service of protection of the common public interest. This is reflected in the creation and protection of quality jobs and values that give a positive signal to all those who want an entrepreneurial path. In the light of this knowledge, I think it is particularly welcome that a change imposes on the company the disclosure of non-financial information. The non-financial statement will contain data on the company's environmental, social and human rights policies, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery issues. Liabilities will apply to large companies that are public-interest entities whose average number of employees is greater than 500. The report will be an additional administrative burden for companies, so we did not want to further extend these obligations. The Directive further requires companies committed to the audit of the business report to represent policies of diversity of representation in the management or control bodies. It is sexual, age and educational diversity. The proposal for a law requires the preparation and disclosure of diversity policy only for companies that are committed to audit and are not micro, small and medium-sized. Some shortcomings of the existing regime are also addressed. The draft law thus regulates the discretionary right of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which decides to use the word Slovenia in the company and to revoke the licence. We also introduce two new offences and eliminate some other inconsistencies of the current GDD-1. Thus, with the proposed amendment to Article 495, we would like to avoid any undue interference with the company's core capital, in order to ensure that at least the minimum capital is allocated to the company's operations and also to the protection of creditors in the company. Despite the legal regulation of the problem within the ZGD-1L, practice has shown that the legal provision needs to be supplemented. This time changes are due to the implementation of directives and some minor amendments to existing legislation. Since the proposal for a law offers appropriate solutions, in particular because the adoption of these directives led to the desire to improve corporate social responsibility, to ensure a comparison of the situation and performance of companies at all levels of the European Union, we decided in the SMC Group that we would support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Economic Companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u19	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the Review of the amendments tabled. 20 3. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. We have tabled an amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party for a certain purpose. As we said in the introduction, we will support the law. However, we estimate that our amendment could only improve this bill. In particular, it is the use of the word Slovenia on behalf of the company and we are convinced that the amendment we have written in the event of forced settlement and insolvency proceedings being initiated should be directed in such a way that the name is not allowed to continue to be used. I am sure that this is an important matter, and I think it would probably be unreasonable for the case of a limited company or a limited liability company or any legal person named Slovenia to find themselves in a forced settlement or in a proceeding and to be in such cases. I expect that the coalition has also changed its mind, as the amendment we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party mainly leads to this legislation, which was drafted by the Ministry of the Economy at the moment, I think is quite correct, only to improve.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u21	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I too will try to appeal, despite saying in our opinion that we will support the law, but I want it to improve. This amendment, which we have tabled to Article 2, which is once again referred to in Article 2, I think is important. It is particularly important that the entry of the coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia is in accordance with the rules governing the use of the Slovenian coat of arms and flag. The Act on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag in the Official Journal of 1994 provides that the coat of arms, flag and hymn may only be used in the form and content laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in the manner laid down by law, i.e. in Article 8, where the coat of arms and flags are not to be applied. It must not be protected, used as a brand, model or sample, and for the labelling of goods or services. Otherwise, the company of companies is not mentioned, but given that the coat of arms and the flag denotes belonging to the Slovenian people and is used by state and other public authorities or used at official events, events and holidays, except in the case of the marking of certain means of transport, only cases of isobise are laid down. Both in the Legislative and Legal Service and we believe and propose that this provision be re-examined. We can agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. We believe that a thorough consideration should be given to the authorisation or the possibility of using the coat of arms and the Slovenian flag in the company of an economic company. However, if we choose to obtain permission from the Government to use the coat of arms and the Slovenian flag in the company of an economic company, the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag should be amended accordingly. Well, before that, we should change the law and then change our minds. The amendment also provides that the Government shall withdraw the authorisation of an economic company to use the name of Slovenia on behalf of its company if it is found that the company is in breach of the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia or the company has been initiated for insolvency or forcible termination. The proposed doctrine that the Government may withdraw a permit if it is found that the company is in serious breach of legislation is unclear and arbitrary in our view. We are convinced that, in particular, companies that have the word or word of Slovenia on their behalf must operate fully in accordance with the legislation in force. We also propose that companies having the word or word of Slovenia on their behalf be deprived of the authorisation to use the name Slovenia if insolvency proceedings are initiated against the company or for the purpose of forcible termination. It would be inappropriate and shameful to have companies and companies with a name, such as Slovenia, d. o.o., bankruptcy or forced settlement. We're talking about anomalies that could happen. We are also talking about some image of the Republic of Slovenia, about the image not only of brands, we are talking mainly about the image of products that will one day, I believe, and I am sure they will call Made and Slovenia and that these stories will be the most successful stories that people will also buy these products. For this reason, I believe that companies which have broken in bankruptcy in liquidation must also be deprived of the coat of arms and flag from their documents, including the name Slovenia. This is our amendment, which I think is appropriate, which I think is normal, and I think contributes again to greater transparency, and thus our country's trade mark as Slovenia is somehow protected. I hope I've been clear enough and precise enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u23	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the amendment to Article 2 is concerned, we assess that it is worth the attention and we are in favour of it. However, since we usually talk about the law in general at this point, I may want to explain in a little more detail why we will not support the law, but we will abstain. Someone here today has already said that it is right that we are popes, but it is not necessarily that we are more papal than the pope. What does that mean? This means that, of course, in New Slovenia, we respect the European acquis, we are aware that the European Directive 95 of 2014 needs to be implemented into our legal order, specifically in the Company Act. However, we have a number of practices, which could be long mentioned, but now this is not the point where different Member States of the European Union implement Directives in their national legislation in very different ways. Let's just look at, let's say, a European directive that talks about excise duties, here I'm thinking mainly about spirit drinks, I'm thinking about farmers and so on. If we compare the implementation of the European Directive in Slovenia and Austria, we see it as day and night. Of course, in Austria the day, with us the night, because in Austria the directive is implemented in a way that is more at the hands of agricultural producers than with us. But it's just one case. This Directive also states that the European Commission will draw up non-binding guidelines on how to prepare reporting, i.e. the methodology for reporting non-financial information to large companies. When it comes to business results when it comes to balance sheets, matters are mathematically exact. We have accounting standards and so on, legislation not to mention. When it comes to non-financial reporting, I ask the Government: Is it already familiar with these non-binding guidelines that the Commission is expected to publish by 6 December last year? Are we now going to take 100% of them, remake them, or are we going to make some rules on the basis of these guidelines? That is probably the case, and then, if so, then we expect some sub-laws when this law is passed. I would like to be here and recommend to the government that it really follows what employers say. When we visit them and ask them what policy can do for you to make it easier, more efficient, so that, of course, workers will have better salaries and so on, to open new jobs, and so on, then many times the answer is very simple that Mrs State Secretary knows, and that is, entrepreneurs say, let us work. I add, of course, but there must be some rules. However, we would not now like to see in New Slovenia that these reports are now one that would actually burden the entire collective, burden management, and eventually a pile of paper would be created here. Then you wonder who this pile is meant for, who these reports are intended for. However, the fact is that an undertaking that is on the market, if it is not environmentally aware, if it violates human rights, if we find elements of unethical business, if the company is on the market, such an undertaking will exclude the market itself, so I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u25	Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! It may be a technical law, but it can only be a matter of, under the terms of reference, translation of the directive, but the issue of social responsibility is extremely important. It maintains that only through administrative action can we not only raise it to a higher level in this way, but in terms of raising the awareness of both employers and those who are just starting out in entrepreneurial waters, it is essential that this law be supported as an important element of the cohesion of society. Most good employers, especially on the part of larger companies, may have problems with those already at the border today, so that they can be found to be harmful to the social and environmental dimension of the environment they live in, or that they try to make use of gaps within existing legislation in order to make use of these constitutional elements of the environment in which we live, subject exclusively to profits. However, I do not think there are too many comments made by colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party through the amendment, and at this point I would also ask the Ministry or the Government to define potential cases of excellence, which they see as a threat, or to specifically define themselves to their amendment, because flags, coats and national and national symbols are not easily taken away, it would be very wrong if, through a law that is not intended at all, the possibility of opening an abuse field here. I believe that this is not the purpose and that this is very difficult to do, but it seems important to me that you define yourself to do so, and that, if necessary, the amendment should be taken as well-intentioned and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u27	Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you, President for your word. I would touch on the amendment of colleagues from the SDS Group, which I believe is very well-intentioned, and speak that the government withdraws the authorisation to use the word Slovenia in particular if the company violates the law or the company is initiated for insolvency or forcible termination under the law governing the financial operations of companies and forcible termination. I personally do not think that we should automatically stigmatise a company that is in financial trouble. Why? Because even if the company goes into forced termination, it doesn't mean it's going to die. The healthy parts of the company that are functioning normally can remain, and I see no difficulty in not using the word Slovenia in the future. However, I must point out that it is in the discretionary right of the government to decide whether to use the word or not. I believe that it has a wider room of manoeuvre and can take account of the different circumstances and that it is already in force without the amendment proposed by the SDS that it can also take away if such a government considers that it would be harmful, it can withdraw this authorisation for the use of the word Slovenia. So I don't see the need to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u29	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm listening to this. My colleague Marko made it clear by the proposaler what the purpose was. Our Legal and Legislative Service has also pointed to this matter. Of course, the introduction of this directive will not in itself improve corporate social responsibility. A discusser from SDS said that, in particular, these larger companies must operate in accordance with legislation. All companies in this company and in this country must operate in accordance with legislation. We will achieve greater social responsibility by better legislation, by appropriate work of inspection services, by better work of FURS or by what people say to the new SDK in the human language. What I have listed is a description of the tasks of the legislative branch of power, the executive branch of authority. But those who are falsities, we know which branches of power. And this proposal that we have here on the table is, of course, well-meaning and will be supported in the United Left. However, with regard to what the colleague from the SMC put it, I would say that I would expect improvements and amendments actually in the direction of what this government and this coalition are not doing – the restructuring of companies. And I could talk about the DURB, about the SDH we will have today on the table, in this light, our task is better legislation and a clearer and clearer defined issue despite the discretionary right of the government. Thank you so much for the word at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u31	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? Now that we're not going to be the same as before, every single one of us is gonna answer whether or not you're gonna sign up if I give you a chance to sign up. I'm asking you to sign up. Try it. Same effect. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you for saying that again! Look, now I have a little more time. Let us ask ourselves how we transpose the European directives into our legal order. In most cases, both previous government coalitions and such coalitions carry it in three wrong, harmful ways for this society and the country. The first least malignant is this: we have a directive, we turn it around a little bit, and we don't put up with its positive good heart, but something like that in half or in the quarter. But you know, this kind of reminds you of when you go to the best neighbor, and you buy that cheese that's good for the pizza to pour, and then you look at it and you see that it's not cheese at all, but it's one in half-dried milk. This is the case. The second case, it's more harmful to take something without even reading it. And even if it says in there, let's roll a hole in our knees, we'll raise the dots and we'll take it. The third is when we begin to rumble late, we will pay the penalty and abuse the directive in order to transfer something absolutely harmful. Such an example was the last amendment of the ZVO when the gap for dirty technologies was transferred, although both employers and employees and the United Left and civil society partners were against it, but then the district minister shouted that this must be done because the directive said so. But when I waved to her with those seven words in English, where it was written that “you could” I was a terrible, rude, disrespectful Duck. And unfortunately, this is how directives are transposed into our legal order. Somehow after two-thirds of my term, I have to say that. A serious directive in this composition of the National Assembly is read by my three experts and experts, and by me, a member of the 90-seat, who is currently going out, by my colleague, who is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, a non-political part of the experts of the Committee on European Affairs and, of course, because he is the Chair, a colleague from the SMC. Then somehow the matter stops. And when we want to have some serious debate, if someone comes from the Ministry with a rank lower than the Secretary of State, he is pleased to be able to debate it, but then this kind of transposition of directives in this way makes it impossible. But if we're serious, then we're trying. Now to our amendments. Indeed, in Article 14, this Directive speaks of an average of 500 employees to define businesses. Of course, this directive also says that the country has a discretionary right because it is not an absolute harmonisation, if I tell all people that it is understandable, most European directives are not tolerated by writing: everything will be the same everywhere. There's no balance sheet. In short, Slovenia may decide to place this limit elsewhere. And if we look at the structure of the Slovenian economy and compare the structure of some economies, it would make sense to lower this limit to 250 to actually capture a larger part of the economy. I listened mainly here: burdens, costs, administrative burdens. Look, if you were cynical, I'd say, well, let's just abolish the legislation, and there'll be fewer administrative burdens, and many in this country would like to cut the workers' salary even more, and even less costs. And I don't really want to be that cynical, but this is about whether we read a directive in our heart and somehow apply it positively or not. And another point that the European Institute for Conformity and Ethics of Business, which is closer to neoliberal work than the United Left, has been alerted to, let us be open to the so-called whole supply chain, traceability. We have just too many cases in Slovenia when we understand that. On the one hand, you will have a company that will flourish all over how eco, assemblage, family-friendly up and down, through some subcontractors, but will take advantage of a number of options that violate our legislation and which, ultimately, policies in a narrow, broader sense support, from default to delays and so on and in the domestic and international environment. I could have dragged the story now, I don't know, to some war in Africa because of the cobalt in batteries in smartphones, but not somehow that I won't be too long. In short, by translating the directive into just a few ten companies and not looking all over the chains, we have over a quarter of a century of good tradition in these violations, in fact, we are doing a story with a fig in our pocket. And I can remember, now I'm going over my head – Here, what? - construction of the premurska part of the motorway, SCT, which does not pay subcontractors. And then SCT was ah and oh company. In short, what do I mean? If we are already in the EU and as long as we are in the EU and as long as the EU is whatever it is, if we are part of its legal order, we must, of course, finally start such directives seriously and slightly differently and introduce them into our legal order. And this is actually the proposal of our two amendments. The SDS proposal, which we will support, is also essentially going this way. Now, if I touch those costs at the end and the extra paper and so on. Here we can agree to some extent with the NSI that without what I mentioned earlier, this will become order here, it can really be extra paper. But, you know, we also have some housing associations that aren't just here to collect membership fees, so that some other sociologists who've been there for decades will salt their minds, but they also have an assignment. We also have managers' associations and so on. And every serious company, let's stop fooling around, has these few pages written in their strategy. And that's not it now, but you know, we're in pre-election time now, obviously, and this pathetic thing is just going to go up until next year, but let's just be a little bit rational. Every serious company already does so and most companies do so. And now out of this to make some theater, how this is going to be some crazy expense, I mean, let's be serious, okay? Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u33	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I think this order to disclose non-financial information is one welcome reception. Why am I saying this? It is a matter of some awareness of these negative externalities which are caused by different companies in their policies to create the environment. When we talk about this, the question is always whether an undertaking that has extremely positive and social and environmental externalities can compete equally successfully with an undertaking that does not have the same products and services. I think it's hard. I agree that this legislation, whatever it is, may be the first step through which we will get some information. Information on how companies react to this non-financial information or how the company itself and consumers respond and the market respond accordingly. The draft law itself is essentially a good reference to this issue of socially responsible corporate governance. But when we come to this proposal from the United Left, whether it's 250 or 500, it's likely that Europe has taken this 500 to some extent, but I don't think this is about bartering, it's about some kind of foundation. However, it is probably necessary to consider that this is one basis on which individual countries can then also decide. If we've taken this, I think it's a start, but then it will certainly be crystallized in some way, whether this is necessary for our situation and in our country to change it. When we talk about all these experiences and social responsibility, it is always a matter of cost, in every respect, from the workforce itself, to how it is directed towards the natural environment and the environment. Unfortunately, there is profit in capitalism, which in some ways also outweighs extreme and negative behaviour. And this law is to some extent trying to take some good steps, some good practice to move forward, and in this light you should also look at it. To save everything in order to save, I will say, those greedy capitalists who are trying to solve in any way with cheap labour or whatever, with the dirty industry and all the other things, it will be difficult. I think the right step has been taken in the right direction, so I think it's worth supporting, and we're gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u36	Yes, thank you for your word. Actually, I wanted to replicate it, but well, I got another chance to discuss it. Of course, Europe has a variety of sizes, and this refers to these 250s. And let's face it, there are 250 cities in Slovenia. This is a big company for our situation. Go look in Ormož, when now Safilo will reduce the scope of work, what this means for some such local and regional environment. Well, now we live in capitalism - we do not live, you know the position of the United Left, but we live in a constitutional parliamentary democracy where a very clear article of our Constitution, which speaks of an economic initiative, also speaks of social and environmental dimensions. That is why I have already said in my view that beyond this directive, this should be made more clear, in better legislation, also in this umbrella law, one of the umbrella laws covering the economic field. This is actually the case, and maybe I wasn't clear enough, housing associations and so on. On the one hand, we have a smart specialisation strategy, where we will tell how we want to be smart and green and green and eco up and down, the departmental minister will talk about how we have an ambitious and realistic climate and such a policy, and what kind of economy we are actually going to develop in this society and country. Is there an economy that will be based on some miniature and dirty technologies where we can shut down the mid-term stall because there will be no money for all four cash registers, or another and a different economy? Then this is a vision, but not, let's bark at the moon and we'll all be happy in 2050. As a result of this vision, European directives should be read. He was talking about Austria. I live relatively close. No matter what the government, coalition and opposition will be like, five, six are the priorities of that society and the country. Do we know that or don't we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u38	Mr President, thank you for your floor. A nice welcome to the Ministry! I think the hall is getting fuller when we discuss economic issues. That's right. I would point out once again the Ministry of Economy, which, by introducing this directive, brings some novelty and an even higher content to our law, of course under European directives. This time I would say that we are introducing a directive that is socially responsible and beneficial for our economy and, of course, for the wider social environment. Why? Because too often we do not recognize the long-term indirect effects of the economy on the environment and other activities. In this regard, the term circular economy, smart specialisation, green economy, green jobs are increasingly emerging in society. These are additional soft content with some added value that nominate a company. This is about disclosure of non-financial data. Because if we go to a society with only a narrow accounting principle for profit and do not look at the content that the company gives to the wider social environment, then we are on the wrong track. I think that it is precisely from these content, which foresees and commands that companies have to disclose non-financial data, that there is a large quantitative leap in this law, especially because we come from an environment where we have a lot of forests, and this opens up enormous amounts of these very contents. Let's imagine some company. If it looks only at profit, exports some wood abroad, of course, is a nice result, and it reveals additional positive effects, that with some management it has influenced the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Why? Because the wood doesn't drive across the border, it doesn't pollute the environment, it pollutes the wood of the area at home. There is, I think, the right path for this marriage, so I fully support it. I think it is finally right that we recognize other non-financial content in the economic environment and not look only through profit, but also look at the other positive effects and social responsibility of companies to our environment, nature and to all of us, citizens and citizens. I fully support this law. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would disagree because I think they're going to another extreme. As far as the law is concerned, I think it's the right solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 3. Agenda item – Proposal for a law amending the law on the enforcement of public funds rights, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Violeto Tomić. In this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Dr Jasni Murgel, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 37th regular session. 3. 2017 discussed the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members, first-signed by Mr Violeto Tomić, and published on the website of the National Assembly, in the Rapporteur of 17. 1. 2017. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons supported the bill. Among other things, it was of the view that it supported the intention of the applicants not to include the child allowance in the income on which the rights of public funds are determined and thus indirectly ensure a better starting point for families in social distress to obtain other rights from public funds. It also considered that an in-depth discussion on partial solutions was needed, which could encourage the competent ministry to prepare more comprehensive solutions as soon as possible to respond to other problems with ensuring the social security of the most vulnerable groups. The Committee also received comments from the charity Petka for the smiles and comments of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection. The amendment to Article 6 was tabled by the United Left Group within the time limit. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Martina Vuk, presented the Government's opinion and said that she was aware of the difficult situation of families with the lowest incomes, so in 2013 the novel ZUPJS was adopted, which no longer considered part of the children's allowance as income. It also considered that changes to the system of awarding public funds could not be implemented in such a simple way, but that there would be a need to carry out extensive analyses of the entire system of awarding public funds rights and to find a more appropriate way to allocate public funds, taking into account wages in the Republic of Slovenia and the traps of inactivity. They also stressed their views as Vice-President of the Association of Youth Friends of Uroš Brezovšek and Director of the Institute of Social Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. Barbara Kobal Tomc, who, among other things, felt that the child’s allowance must be for the child and that it was disputed that she was acting as a survivor of the family. As a result, the Institute has also proposed to change the order of application of social benefits, based on the results of the studies carried out, in order to place the child allowance for cash social assistance. The Director of the Institute explained that a systematic approach to this amendment should be made, and therefore the way to change the order of application of rights and the new definition of the distinction between the development and social work of the child allowance should be based on precise calculations carried out on the basis of different aspects on which the proposed novelty could have an impact. On the basis of the debate, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons adopted, on the basis of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources was not appropriate for further consideration. The Committee also adopted the conclusion that the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons should propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up an appropriate legal solution concerning the non-inclusion of the child allowance in monetary social assistance and submit it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption by the end of 2017 at the latest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, Mrs Violeti Tomić, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, we have proposed that the child allowance should not be taken into account in the exercise of social assistance and other social rights. This would increase the income of socially disadvantaged families, especially those of single parents. Our proposal does not take anything from anyone, but it does give to those families and children who are deprived of normal family life and normal childhood. This amendment is necessary for two reasons. The first reason is to live in a time of record poverty, which is worse than in 1993, during the transition to capitalism. And this poverty threatens children more than ever. At the same time, correction is necessary because our social protection system is poorly carrying out its basic task, which is to prevent poverty. Already before the crisis, between 2007 and 2008, the rate of poverty in Slovenia increased by 7% and between 2009 and 2013 by more than 28%. This is the largest in the whole of the European Union. Both governments of Janez Janša and, in particular, the governments of Borut Pahor bear political responsibility for this situation. It is precisely the social reform of the Pahor government that has affected the most socially disadvantaged people. It affected those two categories that are the most vulnerable, the older, the pensioners, and the children. As a result of Pahor’s reform in 2012, more than 50,000 older people lost their right to a security allowance or a state pension. In order to take account of the child's allowance and to tighten the legislation, more than 4 000 socially disadvantaged people have lost their right to social assistance. Watch out! The Pahor government adopted these anti-social measures during the worst crisis since World War II. This tightening of social policy was so radical that the same team of the Ministry of Labour partially eliminated it at the end of 2013. They then excluded 20% of the child supplement and the allowance for single parent families. However, the effect of this measure on poverty reduction was minimal. The impact of social transfers on poverty reduction has increased by only 0,1 percentage points, i.e. by less than 2.5 percentage points. We therefore propose that Pahor's reform in this area be fully eliminated, so that all the child's allowance is excluded from the decision on social rights. It is clear from the views of the Government and the coalition that they no longer support the current regime, but they are only not prepared to fully abolish and support our proposal. In fact, this is a market for two concepts of social policy. In the United Left, we demand that social policy ensure a decent life for all, and the coalition insists that social benefits must be significantly lower than the income from work in order for socially disadvantaged people to accept the worst paid jobs. The neoliberal approach of the Cerara Coalition does not drink water from a social or economic perspective. If you demand that the recipient of social assistance live worse than the worst paid cleaner, then you agree that both live in extreme poverty. Such a social policy does not eliminate poverty, but creates a spare army of unemployed people who are forced to endure any exploitation. This is legal social dumping, which also creates poverty among employees. However, if people with social benefits were to be provided with normal survival, various Marof Trade would be destroyed overnight, and this would contribute more to the well-being and development of Slovenia than all the subsidies that your government devotes to Revoz, Magni Stayer, that I do not lose words about banks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u43	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Members and others present! By means of social legislation adopted in 2010, the child allowance became part of a single system for the enforcement of rights from public resources. At the same time, it became a social security benefit. The proposed amendment to the law considers that the child allowance should be considered in such a way that it is no longer taken into account in the determination of eligibility for public funds. In the Desus Group, we are partly in favour of such a proposal, especially because of our conviction that family policy or if you want the birth policy and its actions at all in the context of the current demographic situation and its future forecast should not depend on social policy. The latter should essentially deal with net social transfers. In this context, we note that the idea of universal core income in our country, given the financial condition of the country, and also given the necessity of social consensus, will not have a good time of birth. Finally, not even any other country in the world has this in place at systemic level. There are only a few experiments in pilot projects, such as in Finland. Since current social legislation includes many incomes in social transfers and because this legislation is still very young, of course it is not yet expected to change very soon. True, we have fixed it in many ways, and thank God that we are correcting it and bringing it closer to life’s needs. Up until now, adjustments have been made that have put the most economically nourished individuals and families first. This was the case, for example, in the protective supplement. Improvements have also taken place with regard to the child allowance, i.e. as income in the application of the set of all the following rights and subsidies of the law is not fully included, but is reduced by 20% by the amount of the child allowance for the first child in the first income class. An increase in the child supplement in single-parent families shall not be taken into account. Of course, in the Desus Group, we are thinking if we go back to my introductory presentation, where I have highlighted the universal basic income so that, when financially possible, the children's allowance should become the universal income of every family with children. At the same time, in the Desus Group, we are aware that an ideal condition cannot be reached on the nose, so for now we agree with both joints of the parent working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u45	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear fellows! When we talk about poverty, the lack of every debate is ungrateful and painful when we reach children, and there should not be such a debate at all, but it is. Unfortunately, poverty cannot be completely eliminated, but it is essential and necessary to mitigate its effects properly and therefore it must be addressed in an integrated manner. However, it is wrong to believe that poverty can only be eliminated through social transfers, as it is wrong to say that only the social sector is responsible for the social state. The measure, as proposed in the novel, will unfortunately not directly ensure the improvement of the situation of children. Whatever we write down, parents are those with income and income, and the vast majority of parents are responsible for spending. The welfare of their children comes first. Where this is not the case, there is already an option to use the targets of the child’s supplement for a specific purpose. In one segment, of course, the applicant is right and rightly warns. This is where we agree. It is not right that the children's allowance is the first in the order of the application of social benefits, so we have decided on the Committee that the Government will fix it as soon as possible and by the end of the year at the latest. But correct it by putting first money into social assistance, and it should be intended for the survival of the family, which is also meant, and not for the child’s allowance. We all agree here. Unfortunately, we cannot accept the proposal because it will result in new anomalies, new injustices. Is it right that someone who goes to work eight hours, who earns about a thousand and a quarter of a cent of a net, such as an average salary, eventually has less than the one who doesn't work and is unemployed? Is it right to give people the feeling that they are not worth doing? We say it's not. Even so, when no one else is working, the social state will disappear, the little one will be empty. Many studies show that the pitfalls of unemployment are high. Unemployment deteriorates the quality of life, especially in young people who lose knowledge quickly if they do not use it in practice. As a result of the prolonged transition during the period of employment, young people lose their personal and social identity. Unemployment can lead to various health problems, can lead to a fall in self-confidence, a reduction in its material and social self-image. The will to live for the unemployed usually declines sharply, with a state of uncertainty, internal unrest, exhaustion, senselessness and fear of the future. As long as he's unemployed, he's got bigger financial problems. Social interactions are shrinking, and the person is closing down and becoming increasingly apathetic and leads to a vicious circle of poverty. That's why social activation is crucial here. A proposal that tells people that it's not worth doing would only deepen what research perceives. When they are unemployed at a better rate than those who work, solidarity inhibits empathy, tensions and even greater distances between social strata. But we all know that today, when we are at global level in some chaotic situations where tensions are increasing from day to day, we need empathy and understanding more than ever. The problem is too low employee income, so it is essential that we increase employment and demand a decent payment for a decent job done. The wage policy with the minimum wage system and the corresponding wage-to-other ratios is crucial. It's got to pay people to work. When we get to family politics, the problem is that the middle layer falls out everywhere. We all know that one of the largest single family expenses is the payment of kindergarten and a heavy burden on the family budget, so it is reasonable to talk about the idea of further subsidising the cost of kindergarten to those families who have children both in kindergarten and in primary school. The knowledge that poverty can only be weakened through joint action and targeted measures dictated the formation of an inter-ministerial group that is already preparing proposals for family policy measures, which we hope to discuss as soon as possible. Our Group will support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u47	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I mean, I'm listening to Desus' opinion on his nose. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u49	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's a position. Position here, in front of the microphone. Sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u50	Okay. It's a little big right now. In short, in the United Left, we insist on our proposal that children's allowances be disregarded in the exercise of social rights. This measure, as I have already said, does not take anything from anyone, but gives to those families and children who have been deprived of the system for a normal life. We will certainly vote against the coalition's proposal to reject the law for three reasons. The first reason is to address the shortcomings that you are facing us with other measures. Others, because if the marriage fails, the socially endangered families remain dry for at least 18 months. And not least because we don't fall for the promise of Anya the Ripper of the Dark that it will miraculously solve the problems that it itself consciously caused a few years ago. First, I have to respond to the obvious that a family, where one parent receives a minimum wage, can eventually have a higher income than a family where one parent has an average salary. Look, it's not something special. Of course, a low-retirement pensioner has a lower income than a pensioner with an even lower pension, who receives a security allowance. Besides, if you're going to end this haircut, you don't have to reject the law. It is sufficient to change the equivalent scale in the Social Benefit Act or to unfreeze children's allowances in higher income classes. This gives us another reason why marriage should go on. The coalition has ordered the government to submit its solution by the end of the year. At best, the problem would be solved in 18 months, so I urge you not to reject the law. Your working group should propose adjustments to the Social Receipts Act, so we can put in place a new regime as early as the new year. This also gives us a third reason why we should let the law go forward, and this is, of course, our common bad experience with the team of Anje Copač Dark. In 2010, legislation was adopted which lost 50 000 people to a protective allowance and a state pension. The first amendment took about three years, and the new amendment promised in the 2014 Coalition Treaty only entered into force in February of this year. And such cases are small seas. It's a work inspection law. A year ago, the coalition overstepped our proposal. Comrade Prikl of Desus promised to make his own marriage in September if the government did not. Today, we have not yet seen the law in any procedure. Then the children's lunch subsidies. In June 2015 you rejected our original proposal with similar excuses as we hear them today. It was only last November that SMC finally broke down and adopted our original proposal. Anya the Digger of the Dark wouldn't have changed her mind. In short, we can't leave the social problems to the team that caused them. The neoliberal coup of the Pahor government was conscious. It maintains an ultra-price spare armada, which can be exploited by various marof traditions, creates an artificial division between unemployed and poor employees so that they cannot collectively resist exploitation. Yeah, it's true. We've got more and more people living poorly. But poor workers have absolutely nothing to do with knowing that the unemployed live even worse. On the contrary, both the unemployed and the poor are in bloody need of an increase in social benefits. If the social state had allowed people to survive normally, a variety of marof traditions would have perished very quickly. Of course, it would pay people to work without the unemployed and the disabled having to live for it. This is the only social policy, everything else is just social dumping. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u51	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u52	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The birds are already chirping that the infamous Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Funds, prepared and implemented by then Minister Svetlik and then Secretary of State Kopač Dark, has caused many injustices. The effects of the law were mainly in increasing the risk of poverty for some socially affected groups, such as single women and single parent families. However, large families are affected by the reduction or withdrawal of state scholarships to high school students, taking into account child support for their younger sisters or brothers in the property of the family. A minor beauty change was made in 2013 when one part of the child supplement was removed from the account of other rights from public funds or social transfers to families and the cause of the problem and harmful consequences was unfortunately not eliminated. We have repeatedly stressed that Social Democrats have been at the Ministry of Labour since 2008, with the exception of one intermediate year 2012, and in 2017 we are all still seeing that we have a high level of risk of poverty and an increasing number of hungry children and families. This can be confirmed by the Union of Youth Friends, who, with this burning situation along with Karitas and the Red Cross, meet daily and try to ease the situation. In 2013, we proposed an amendment that would take out the child allowance in full from the calculation of scholarships to students, because we had a calculation before us that some 3,000 students would not receive this scholarship at the expense of their younger siblings receiving the child supplement. The amount is not large, but it is important for those students who actually study and live outside the place of residence or drive from smaller places. Although the financial implications for the state budget are not high, there is no obedience from the Ministry. It was sad to listen to the representative of the Ministry at the meeting of the Labour Committee, in what way she advocated this attitude. In New Slovenia, we believe that the long years of the SD administration of the Ministry of Labour have mainly resulted in confusion as to what family policies are and what social protection policies are. Our belief is that everyone should know at any time what a family policy measure is and what a social policy measure is. The proposed amendment follows this objective, so the Members of New Slovenia will vote against the conclusion that it is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u53	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. All right, everybody, welcome! In the Alliance and the Group of Members, we believe that the debate, which should also be followed by solutions to ensure effective social and family policy, is absolutely necessary, but we do have some reservations to the draft law before us. The issue of the admission of a child allowance to the role of a survivor of a family must be regulated in a comprehensive manner, otherwise we risk that the entire social security system, where the rights of public funds belong, is being broken down. However, the findings of the Social Protection Institute show this. For we cannot allow a family without income to receive more than a family with a minimum wage and a family with a minimum wage more than a family with an average wage. This is unacceptable and in the long term, unfortunately, leads to the evaluation of work as such. I agree that the minimum wage is too low, as well as average, and I know that citizens and citizens with such incomes find it difficult to live. However, this will not solve the problem that has arisen. The Director of the Institute for Social Protection clearly presented at the meeting of the parent working body the importance that the child allowance has gained since its implementation, as well as proposals for solutions that would lead to better regulation of the allocation of rights from public funds. On this occasion, I propose that the Government take the proposals for improvements into consideration and, in line with the decision taken by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, take a serious approach to the comprehensive regulation of the social protection system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u55	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Dr. Jasna Murgel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Public Resources Rights, which we are considering today, proposes to exempt a child's allowance from the income category, which is taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. Thus, the child allowance would not be taken into account in determining the household’s income censorship or its carrier for monetary social assistance and other social benefits. Nor would it be taken into account when calculating the amount of social benefits, which is usually defined as the difference between income censorship and household income. It is important to know from the calculations and additional information we have obtained from the competent ministry and from the opinion of the Slovenian Institute for Social Protection, that this is an independent institution where experts who are professionally engaged in the field concerned and then of course are well aware of this – it is clear from these data that the adoption of such a proposal in higher income would reduce the difference in income between employees and the unemployed, while at the same time reducing the differences between available income, i.e. the sum of income and all other rights. Thus, there would be cases where, for example, one family with a minimum wage would have more income available as a family on average. For example, a single - parent family with two children would develop such an anomaly that a family without income would have more income available than an average - wage family. So we're not just talking about the minimum, we're talking about the average wage. Well, it wouldn't be worth doing. That's something we need to be careful about. We do not, of course, advocate that minimum wages be lower, but that we should be careful that the relationship between what is received by those receiving social transfers and those who work is not broken. We have, of course, relied heavily on the opinion of the Institute for Social Protection. In its opinion, this Institute points out that it is disputed that the child allowance is a benefit to the survivor of the family. We also agree with this in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. The Institute therefore proposes to change the order of application of rights from public funds or social benefits in such a way as to place the child allowance immediately for financial social assistance. According to the Institute, the way to change the order of application of rights and the new decision to distinguish between the development and social part of the child allowance should be based on accurate calculations based on the different aspects on which the proposed novelty would affect. The Institute also notes that simple calculations for some types of families where the child allowance is not taken into account when calculating the amount of financial social assistance show that, for example, one or two parent families with two children and a minimum wage after receiving social transfers would have higher incomes than families with an average salary, with an average salary, not a minimum wage. Therefore, in the broader context of social policy, these changes could undermine the existing wage-receiving relationship between recipients of minimum wage and recipients of monetary social assistance in favour of the latter. So this is the opinion of an independent social work institute dealing with this area. I think we should, we think in the Modern Centre Party, look at the position of the profession in this area. Because simple solutions that we suddenly take and think will solve the problem that we want to solve may not have the effect that we want. For example, we have adopted the Law on School Food Subsidisation and today we know that 5,000 400 parents of children who could apply from those three income classes that could enforce 100% of the payment of lunch, out of 53 thousand 100 beneficiaries, so 10% did not take advantage of this right. So a simple solution may not be as effective as we wanted it to be. At the meeting of the parent committee of the Modern Centre Party, we supported the conclusion that the amendment of the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds is not suitable for further consideration. This is how we will vote this time. At the same time, at the meeting of the parent committee, we are aware that in this area it is necessary to adopt the amendments proposed by the designated institute, we have adopted a decision calling on the Government to draw up an appropriate solution by the end of 2017 regarding the non-inclusion of the child allowance in monetary social assistance and to submit it to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u57	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Look, presidents, even if you say now that I abused procedure, the fact is that the committee first agreed on something, and then it changed its mind. And now there's some big hocus attempt to excuse this. My procedural proposal is that we are not offensive to that quarter of the population and the people who are poor. This so-called independent institute was recently led by a prominent member of the SD. So let's not stop. I'm not gonna finish the sentence. [[…]] Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u59	You yourself have already found that you have abused, especially since this is in the midst of the positions of the groups of Members and the substance of the debate has already expired and has expired on the committee itself, so it is in our rules of procedure and we will continue. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u60	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are very disappointed at the attitude of the current government and the coalition towards the socially weak and especially all those who live on the brink of survival or below the threshold of poverty. These citizens and citizens are almost a third, which is of course an extremely problematic situation. At the very least, we would expect from the Government of Mir Cerar and the coalition they make up, in nicknames, social-sensitive parties such as the SD party, that is, Dejan Židan, Desus Karl Erjavac, SMC Mir Cerar, to support these parties and this government all the key proposals in the law, regardless of who has submitted them, which can help improve the situation in this area. The proposal for a law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which has been tabled, is one of the proposals which, if adopted, would certainly reduce the pressure on those most vulnerable groups in our society, certainly being between households with children and single parent families, among which the poverty rate is the highest. The draft law proposes a solution to exempt the child allowance from the category of income that is taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. It is also taken into account when measuring the amount of social benefits, which is generally defined as the difference between income censorship and household income. The aim of the law is to reduce poverty between households with children, in particular single-parent households, among which the risk of poverty is highest. In its position on this proposal, the government does not support and uses all possible excuses, such as that of this two-faced government and, in pronunciations, the socially sensitive coalition has been practiced since the very beginning of the country's leadership. We are convinced that Slovenian voters and voters, who went to the elections three years ago and gave their voice to so-called new faces, did not expect anything like this in their dreams. Now it is crystal clear to everyone in our country that the government of Mira Cerar cares solely for the privileged and employs its politically clean and personal friends, who have nothing to do with expertise, with morals and ethics, which was a key pillar and a huge lie of the government of Mir Cerar. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, the proposal concludes that the law is not suitable for further consideration, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u61	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal of a family law within the framework of a regular procedure. The proposal for a code was submitted by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the draft Code, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! It is difficult for us to expect a proposal for a new system of laws in the family — a family code. This is a second attempt to modernise Slovenian family legislation. First, five years ago, he failed because of the referendum that was required because the code also regulated the rights of same-sex partners and prohibited the physical punishment of children. Both content at the time are already regulated in other laws in almost the same way as the proposal for a family code five years ago. That there will be no doubt, I stress this at the beginning. The proposal for a family code does not give any additional rights to same-sex couples. Any debate on this issue in the process of adopting the family code is therefore a debate on something that is not, is a debate that is aimed only at itself and at gathering the political points of those which trigger it. On the other hand, it is unacceptable to further restrict the rights of same-sex partners and thus to interfere with the rights acquired and protected by the Constitution, which is the content of some of the proposed amendments. Today, however, the key issue raised by the rejected family code has not yet been addressed: it is a systemic overflight of child protection. We are still applying the 1976 legislation in this area, so for the sake of the child and their protection, I hope that we will succeed in this attempt. The basic objective of the Family Code is to ensure more effective implementation of the child protection principle and to improve legal certainty in decision-making in marital and family disputes. We therefore propose transferring the powers to decide on measures to protect the benefit of the child from social work centres to district courts. The courts will therefore decide on provisional orders and measures of a more permanent nature, on fostering and custodianing. The proposal for a code for each measure specifically sets out how long it may take, provides for a continuous verification of the justification for the further implementation of the measure. We also introduce the so-called principle of the sweetest measure, which means that when deciding on measures to protect the benefit of the child, a measure must be applied to protect the child and, at the same time, to intervene as little as possible in the rights of the parents. Taking a child away from a parent is as intended as a last resort. There was a lot of discussion about the definition of family. The family is defined as a living community of children, regardless of their age, with both parents or with another adult, if they care for the child and have responsibilities and rights for the child. So the child is the one who makes the family. The government and the coalition at this point did not unwittingly insist on the original solution, but a conceptually similar proposal from the largest opposition party was adopted. The term “parental rights” is replaced by the term “parental care”, which better denotes the whole rights and obligations in relation to parents and children. The news is also a preeminent parental will, which gives parents the opportunity to express in advance the willingness to care for a child in case of death or a more permanent inability to carry out parental care. In the area of the possibility of adoption by old parents, we have found a solution that preserves the benefits of adoption in terms of ensuring lasting care for the child and avoids negative consequences. For a child who does not have a living parent, the court may grant parental care to a relative who meets the conditions for adoption and who is willing to take full care of the child. The parental care given to a relative may be withdrawn under the same conditions as that of the parent. In the area of marriage, the code largely preserves the rules in force and brings a little more flexibility to the state, so that the marriage will be more to the extent of the spouses. Let me list some other important news. We are initiating mediation in family disputes, which is aimed at the peaceful resolution of family disputes. We introduce the status of societies in the public interest in the area of family policy and family support programmes, which are aimed in particular at promoting positive parents and strengthening parental competences, improving family relations and active leisure. We are laying the groundwork for the adoption of a resolution on family policy, which will be a fundamental strategic document in the field of family. We propose the creation of a world for children and family at government level. Unfortunately, there is no time to list all the advantages, innovations and improvements brought by the Family Code proposal, but I can reiterate that it is a law that we need in Slovenia, which has gone through an extensive public debate and is in line with the profession. The Act is supported by the Community of Centres for Social Work, the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Social and NGOs. Without a vote, the Code was supported by the Committee of the National Court of Justice and the competent commission of the Council of State. At the plenary session of the Council of State, he received support with an absolute majority. I hope that you will also give your support to Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The proposal for a code was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, secretary! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a Family Code, at the proposal of the Government and the Ministry of Labour at its 36th session. 3. 2017. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Labour, a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, a representative of the State Council and representatives of a number of civil society groups or movements. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined that proposal of the Code in terms of competence with regard to the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. The PSC gave a broad opinion on the proposal for a code. The Committee also received an opinion from the State Council, which supports the Family Code proposal. The proposal for a family code was addressed by the Committee on Justice as an interested working body, whose opinion was presented at the meeting by the chairman of this Committee, the Committee considered that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. The debate was quite gruesome, with many amendments and also with a large number of articles of the family code, which in some ways regulates the family and children's problems in this area, so if you allow it, only some of the sources will be listed here. Many have welcomed the adoption of a modern family code that solves most of the problems that have proved to be in practice and effectively enforces or enforces its solutions. The applicant assured civil society that there is no trap in the proposal if you want small print, both in terms of the possibility that same-sex couples adopt children or are fertilized with biomedical assistance. It has been explicitly stated and ensured that the old parents can be given parental care, which is regulated by the new 232.a Article of the Family Code, so that the fear of grandparents in this place is also exaggerated. The proposal for a code does not allow, and this is particularly true, for the same-sex couple to adopt their children or not be eligible for fertilisation with biomedical assistance together. Most of us welcomed the proposed programmes to support the family and create a more conducive environment for the work of NGOs in this area. We have expressed the desire that the planning world for families and children will be more effective than some other government bodies that we already have and exist. We also agreed on the transfer of decision-making powers from the Social Work Centre to the courts, as the parties will receive important procedural guarantees in these proceedings for the effective exercise of their rights already during the proceedings themselves. The dilemma was also raised whether the decision on CSD was appropriate administrative procedure or whether those specific procedures should be governed by another procedural law. We also agreed that it would be necessary to adapt the Law on Justice, the Law on Unfair Procedure, the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, which would provide a great deal for the competent ministries, which must also take into account the opinions of the judge who, of course, belongs to this procedure. All such adjustments to the law must be made prior to the transfer of the decision to the courts in order not to result in delays in the resolution of disputes in the courts. We have also highlighted the issue of the lack of judicial experts in this area, as the party, in addition to the opinion of the Centre for Social Work, will be able to request an additional expert, which will increase the costs of the proceedings, as the Council of Justice also points out. Given the content and width of that regulation, the number of amendments we voted on was high. Finally, we voted on all the articles of the family code together and, of course, adopted them on the committee. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated Proposal for a Family Code, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The updated Proposal for a Code is an integral part of this report, much broader than I have now presented to you in this short time and you have accepted it on your own bench. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! Nicely greeted Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! It's been more than five years since the family code fell on the referendum. People have said their thing. The most controversial was the adoption by same-sex couples, which led to the fall of two marriages at the referendum. In this proposal of the Family Code, we do not touch on the rights of same-sex couples, as they are regulated by a special law that has recently entered into force. Five years ago, opponents of the Family Code and candidates of the referendum challenged the following. First, the definition of family, secondly, marriage and thirdly, the equalization of the rights of same-sex couples. At the last referendum two years ago, the fact that old parents are unable to adopt their grandchildren. The proposal on our tables today is different. Unfortunately, however, we have already heard the announcement of a new referendum. It is therefore very important to stress that these four points are today significantly different. Let's go in one order. On the committee, we confirmed the definition of the family proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party with the amendment, so the complementary proposal now contains the definition proposed in the SDS. But there is nothing we can do against the transfer of fellow Members, because today we have a new amendment, because they have changed their minds and would like to write a little differently, just so much for the decoration that, despite the fact that the content is not different, they can explain that they were opposed. About the marriage. This is where we have accepted the opposition amendments. The amendment of New Slovenia, which substantially upgraded the SDS amendment. “The marriage is a union of husband and wife. The importance of marriage is in the design of the family."This is now written in the supplementary proposal exactly as they wanted five years ago, and again in the SDS they are not satisfied because despite the written form of words in the unit, they want to add a number before that, which is unnecessary. In Slovenia, monogamy already exists, polygamy is banned and the proposal for a family code in Article 26 prohibits it. We have regulated the rights of same-sex couples in a special law, in the Law on Partnerships, which is why we do not regulate them in the family code. We also explicitly stated in the Partnerships Act that the same sexes cannot adopt a child and prohibit fertilization with biomedical assistance. It's both valid. Together with this, we have adopted an amendment of the opposition, and in terms of the importance of the marriage, we have also closed the door to interpretation so that the same sexes can somehow adopt children. That's not gonna work. The same-sex can't adopt a baby and a dot. We've accepted all of this. We also corrected the article on parenting. In doing so, we followed a civil initiative that drew attention to the inadequacy that a relative could get parental care and, on their proposal, also erased that part of the custody he cared about. Now it will be valid, when the conditions are met, the court will grant parental care to a relative, namely, we have identified the relatives as a blood relative in the row level to the other colleague listed or to the side row to the count of the fourth knee, i.e. brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother, aunt, uncle and so on. This form will, on the right and the right, be equal to adoption, except that it does not interfere with inheritance, does not mix family ties and will not wipe biological parents from the birth certificate. The condition for our support is the protection of the child's benefit and the proposal follows. We hope that we are all aware that this family code is the one that brings children the most. We hope that it is up to us all to protect the child and its benefits, that we all care that the child's benefits will now be decided by the court and not by the social work centres. To welcome the creation of an advocate of children's rights on the basis of the fact that every fourth married couple is separated, it is very important that we establish the possibility of mediation to help keep the family together. We hope that everyone cares about all those children who do not have any reason for both parents and that we also recognize these children’s rights. We've been talking about this for ten years, and now it's really about time to confirm it. We will support the Social Democrats in the Parliamentary Group on the basis of all the above-mentioned family laws. However, we will not support any of the proposed amendments by the SDS, New Slovenia, the United Left, any. We are complemented with a good proposal and it is high time that it enters into force so that it can really start to protect and work for the benefit of the child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. Family legislation has been in need of reform for some time and we expect the United Left to follow the principles of equality, to protect the rights of minorities and children, to protect family life and to create appropriate support systems for the upbringing and development of children. Above all, we expect such legislation not to command what lifestyles are right and which are not, but to create the conditions for equal treatment of all families. In some parts, the proposal for a code follows the needs of society and these principles. If I merely point out the transfer of competence to decide on measures to protect the benefit of the child from social work centres to the courts, this amendment is welcome because the social centres are burdened by allowing them more professional and advisory work. However, we cannot support this proposal of the Code because it preserves the fundamental discrimination of LGBT persons, while retaining some other socially unjust measures of the current legislation or even adding new ones to them. The preservation of discrimination against LGBT of persons is the most visible part of the constant weakening and adjustment of the ruling coalition to the referendum threats of the clerical right. With regard to human rights, the LGBT has made a first compromise by the ruling coalition, but, of course, it has not been able to set a limit; it is always ready for another compromise with the right. The right asked for the priority adoption of grandchildren by old parents and received parental care. The Hand demanded a change in the definition of marriage, and it also received it. Such, at first sight small concessions conservative right-wings only reinforce already present discrimination. At the symbolic level, such indulgence is merely an expression of the emptiness of the political environment, which is becoming increasingly right-wing. The government proposal discriminates against LGBT persons because it prevents them from entering into a marriage and deprives them of the rights enjoyed by diversified couples. The fact that the rights of same-sex couples are governed by a special law indicates a different, unequal treatment. The special legislation regulates the rights of those minorities who have more rights, not less. Therefore, the Law on Partnerships currently in force must be only a temporary solution, as it certainly does not constitute genuine equality. Also problematic is the provision of a family code that imposes the importance of their marriage. The law says that marriage is about starting a family, about having a child. Well, we socialists are here firmly in the position that what marriage means must remain in the exclusive spouse's domain. The next issue is the introduction of the so-called pre-nuptial contract, which the Government presents as one of the major novelties of the code. Such a contract will allow the spouses to completely avoid the common property regime without any safeguards. The new regime poses a threat to economically subordinated spouses, especially for women. The effect of this proposal will be only more property inequality and less equality in marriage. And since there can be no compromise in equality, human rights and social justice, we cannot support this law in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u70	Dear President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Christian Democrats believe that the family is a fundamental cell of society, a healthy family grows a healthy society and vice versa. This is why we have been closely following procedures and content, cooperating with comments and consulting a number of stakeholders since the publication of the Family Code proposal. Our goal is always to protect the family more than it is now protected. The family code should set up a solid foundation for a family in which children would have safe and playful childhood. Father and mother are the greatest happiness and the best environment for all children, but unfortunately the opposite is happening. Members of New Slovenia have already made comments in the public debate on important articles of the Family Code Proposal: in particular the definition of marriage and its importance, the human and financial reinforcement of social work centres in the custody and care procedures, the possibility of old parents to be a party in the adoption process in cases of force majeure when both parents suddenly die, and the possibility for parents to say in advance who or who is unfit to take care of their children in such a case, and the inclusion of preventive programmes for spouses and families. Some of our comments were taken into account, some only partially, but most, unfortunately, no. We have also tabled well-founded amendments to the mother's labour force, particularly regarding the definition of family, marriage, the equalization of extramarital partners in the possibility of adoption of children and the position of non-governmental organisations working in the family. Unfortunately, only our proposals for Articles 3 and 20 have been adopted and the rest have been rejected. It is important and good that we have adopted our proposal for a definition and the importance of marriage, which is now a living community of husband and wife whose conclusion and termination are governed by this code, and its importance is in the design of the family. Unfortunately, the proposer insists on changing the definition of a family that is totally unnecessary. The current text thus devalues the mother and father and makes the same sense to another adult who is nowhere to be found in all 300 articles. So it is already a well-known and already seen policy of implementing a minority's agenda in small steps and spreading the theory of sex. The proposal for a Code amends the basic concept of the family in the same way as was rejected in 2012. So the story repeats itself. But the SD is pursuing its agenda, no matter what the people decide. The new form of parental care, however, is a step in the right direction, but in our view a new institute should not be introduced. While the bill also brings some improvements, particularly with regard to adoptions, foster care and care, where these procedures from social work centres will be transferred to the jurisdiction of the courts. However, questions remain in this area as to how the courts will be able to do so in view of the other backlogs. Will the court's backlogs on this account increase? Judges themselves raise the question of whether they are qualified for these procedures, given that they are minors and very sensitive interference with their vulnerable personality. Is this why the court is going to need more experts in this profession? We note another very important change. When children are adopted, they will no longer have the advantage of marriage, so the husband and wife who have entered into the marriage union will be equal in this procedure with the extramarital partners. Marriages now have an advantage in adoptions and, according to the proposal of the family code, no longer. We have a number of comments on the Family Code proposal, but unfortunately time is limited. For all of this, Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats cannot support the proposal if the definition of the family changes significantly today with the amendments and the family is adequately protected.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Again, everyone, welcome back! While we welcome the arrival of the family code in the Alliance and in the Group of Non-Related Members, we believe that after 40 years it is time for some institutions of family law to be updated and redefined in accordance with the time in which we live. However, despite the efforts made by the Minister responsible for family policy, we simply cannot go beyond the fact that the proposal for a family code before us still contains institutions whose nature has deteriorated and the application is pointless. Although the proposaler with the extended definition of family follows the purpose of putting the child at the forefront, we wonder whether the family code is intended for all families, including those without children. Why should a family be defined through a child and not through mutual love and respect for the two partners who stand by each other at every moment of their lives? Put yourself in the skin of two people who, despite their wishes, cannot have a child. In Slovenia every 7 pairs face infertility. Or two people who don't want one. Why do we assume that all couples want to have a baby? Are we aware that the social situation of young people often does not allow for a decision on the birth of children? And every day these couples face questions like: How come you don't have a baby? When will it be? Isn't it time? And these questions are painful for a lot of people. So if these couples aren't family, then what are they? How do we define the concept of family? It's very difficult, because there are two families who feel that way, at least that's what we think in our group. Childless couples are all too often treated as less valuable, if I don't say so as second class. And the message of the Family Law Proposal is in a work that defines the concept of a family exactly the same, discriminatory. But what really grieves me is the fact that it appears that the law prescribes the importance of marriage, i.e., quote: “The meaning of marriage is in the design of the family.” The end of the quote. Given the fact that the applicant sees the definition and the foundation of the family only through the child, we wonder what century we live in. I will not go into a deeper relationship, but in our Group of Members we believe that both the decision to enter into a marriage and its importance is the matter of those two individuals who make a marriage. Two adults should know how they feel, why they feel, what unites them, and how they want to live. No one should and should not, at least the legislator, interfere with the intimate life decisions of two individuals. For all we have said, we will only support the amendment of the United Left in our parliamentary group, which changes for us the controversial definition of the family and the importance of the marriage leaves to those who decide on the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ms Erika Dekleva will present the views of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today we are discussing the family code, which brings many improvements in family law in Slovenia and will replace the law adopted in 1976. We have before us a proposal for a code designed, inter alia, to improve the situation of children in family relations and to ensure more effective implementation of the child protection principle, which is the fundamental principle of our family law, to simplify the procedures for deciding on measures to protect the benefit of children transferred from social work centres to the courts, to allow for a faster resolution of matters in the family field, to reduce the number of disputes before the courts and to place the child's role at the forefront of all proceedings that concern him. In doing so, we must point out that the family code is returning to the centres for social work their basic tasks and functions, for which they have been established at all. With the envisaged transfer of jurisdiction to the courts, social work centres will be able to carry out a more thorough advisory function in child protection procedures, thus making it much easier for the courts to decide with the help of their opinions and proposals. The law brings many other good solutions. Nevertheless, the debate over the last year was mainly about the possibility of adoption of grandchildren by old parents, the pre-expressed will of parents regarding the care of children in the event of the death of parents, and also about the possibility of adoption of same-sex partners. It is a matter of subjects that burden our society and it is right to discuss them and finally find a solution with which we will all be satisfied. However, taking into account the fact that the child is the one subject to most of the measures and whose greatest benefit we must ensure through every measure of our family law. Old parents are indispensable in the Slovenian family and play an important role in the protection and training of grandchildren. This is part of our tradition, and it is right to keep it that way. The family code doesn't change that. The old parents don't take anything from the code, just the opposite. Parental care that replaces today’s established concept of parental rights can be given to old parents and other relatives who have never had one before. By granting parental care, parents and other relatives acquire the same obligations and rights as their children’s parents and become legal representatives of the child. In addition to the possibility of granting parental care to a relative, one of the novelties of the family code is also the parental will expressed in advance. Thus, the possibility that parents may, in the event of their death or the more permanent inability to carry out parental care in advance, express the will to care for their child if they themselves are unable to care for him. The Court will only take such a decision into account the parents ’ will if this is not contrary to the child’s interests. There has also been much talk in the debate about the rights of same-sex couples, but it should be stressed that these are now regulated in a separate law, this is in the Partnership Act, and there is no need for mistaken beliefs to spread in this regard. On this occasion, it should be stressed that the family code is adopted because Slovenian family law needs to be reformed. The family code, which is before us, introduces modern views of marriage and family, while maintaining a tradition at both institutions, which prevails in Slovenian cultural space. We will support the proposal of the Family Code in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr Vice President. These days it is just five years since the referendum, at which we rejected the original proposal for a family code, mainly for ideological reasons, for which the then Minister Dr. Svetlik and Secretary Dr. Anja Kopač Dark insisted, although the family code had some good and urgently needed solutions. Family relations were therefore the hostage of imposing ideological solutions that the public does not approve of. Surprised and disappointed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that the current proposal for a family code is the same. Above all, we are disappointed that it has been four years since Dr. Anja Kopač Dark's ministry, following the referendum moratorium, that she was able to propose a family code, which once again has some good solutions that could have been adopted substantially earlier in 2013, but because of the lack of activity of the minister in this area, they were not. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed a series of amendments in the legislative process, which were largely rejected. However, we have been able to achieve at least that of the two proposed definitions of the coalition family, the coalition has adopted one that will prevent the deletion of the status of the family to about 200,000 living communities. This is a definition of family, which was also advocated by Minister Anja Kopač Mrak this time, as in the First Family Code. However, in addition to this solution, we propose that the definition of traditional family, mother and father and children should be maintained, while clearly defining the importance of other forms of family such as single parent families, and in particular to identify temporary foster families with children, so that the child in foster care is no longer marked with a bad birthmark. Despite the fact that the coalition has at least partially listened to our amendments, we cannot support the family code, as it still does not follow the will of citizens and citizens who have expressed it twice in the referendum. Firstly, the definition of the family is changing and the special role of the traditional family as a fundamental social community is completely disregarded. Secondly, the family code will still allow children to impose a sex theory or theory within the framework of compulsory education to choose sex and sexual orientation for themselves. In this regard, we have also proposed an amendment prohibiting any influence on children's personal circumstances without the consent of parents in the school system. Thirdly, the Family Code will allow the financing of those individuals and organisations in the field of family policy who do not respect the fatherhood and motherhood which are specifically protected by the Constitution in Article 53. Fourthly, the Family Code clearly sets out the possibility of adopting children in the same-sex community by allowing for two-stage adoption of children in the same-sex community. Article 215 allows adoption by one person, while Article 230 allows the adoption of a proposal for the adoption of a spouse by whom the same-sex partner under the Partnership Act is equal in legal consequences, thereby allowing the adoption of a child of the same-sex partner who has previously been adopted as one person. The Partnership Act explicitly excludes adoption of same-sex couples only when the same-sex partners adopt their children together but not if they adopt them individually in two steps. Fifthly, old parents will still not be able to adopt their grandchildren, even though parental care may be granted to them. The so - called absurd solution in the law, whereby old parents can adopt foreign grandchildren, they will not be able to adopt their grandchildren, but they will be able to adopt one person or a same - sex community. Six, adoptions decided by the State are still not defined as the right of the child to be adopted in the community of women and men, i.e. in the community he acquired by birth and later lost. With regard to these solutions that we do not agree with, we have proposed amendments. We are firmly opposed to such a code as is now before us, because it is clearly contrary to the will of the people, which has been expressed twice in the referendum. The adoption of the Code in such a form will also be a mockery of the mother's day ahead of us and the ridicule of the wishes of citizens and citizens who rejected such solutions five years ago on their mother's day.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Say hello to my friends and friends again! In these days it has been 5 years since the referendum, when about 45% of voters in Slovenia estimated that the current family code was not acceptable. But these are the paces of passat, we have a new proposal for a family code ahead of us. In the Desus Group, we firmly believe that it is in fact impossible for today, at a time of modern times, and I believe in a universal democratic society because of certain extreme views and opinions, to be broken down again in the same way because of fundamental concepts or if you want the definition of family and marriage. Let me say, or reject, a correlation in relation to same-sex partnerships at the outset, which seems essential to me. With this bill, the relationship is clear that the Law on Partnerships and the Family Code does not affect anything. It doesn't matter. These two laws will apply separately, apart from each other. In doing so, it must be heard and heard, and in particular understood that the Family Code proposal in the first does not affect and does not allow the same-sex couple to adopt the child together, i.e. both partners adopt the child and also does not give the same couple the right to fertilisation procedures with biomedical assistance. These are the facts. The essential emphasis of the family code is, of course, intended for the child and to ensure his or her benefits. The focus is on the child and ensuring the child’s benefits. The newly established definition of a family contributes to this. This is the basis, the relationship between the child and the adult concerned, regardless of whether they are both parents or just one of them or the other adult caring for the child, and this law therefore gives him certain obligations and rights. In the Desus Group, we agree that the child has the right to equal treatment, regardless of the form of the family, whether it is a traditional family or any other form of family, since the child himself cannot influence it. However, it must be properly and fairly taken care of. Appropriately and justly taken care of. In our parliamentary group, the Desus Group, we welcome the solution to the parental care of the child by the closest relatives, that is from the old parents, namely grandparents, as well as brothers and sisters, aunts and uncles and cousins and cousins. This option is used as the first option in a series of others when a child loses both parents. This institute is very similar to adoption with a few minor differences, which are certainly meant and set for the benefit of the child. According to the assessment of Ambassadors and Members of Desus, this is much better, even we think that the only acceptable option is compared to the classic adoption of grandchildren by old parents who would like to legislate some civil society initiatives. The family code is comprehensive according to the current 41-year-old family law and is well-modernized. Its solutions are modern, are more lifelike, and are professional, and above all, they are friendly to people. The law is prepared on the basis of the practice of courts and centres for social work, the knowledge of theory and a summary of today's actual practice and the issue of marriage and family life. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me repeat, the Code assigns to the child and his safety, and I benefit from more attention than we can give to the current regulation. The shortcomings of the existing regime appear to be critical and practical every day in public reverberating cases, as well as in cases that are not known, and are all due to outdated rules, in many cases, regrettably, in one way or another, distorted and marked in terms of the integrity of the child. That is why in the Desus Group we support the innovations in the procedures when the country also has to cut into the family environment. This law establishes the separation of the professional advisory work of social work centres in the family environment from the decision-making function. I am talking, of course, about the transfer of competence from the social work centres to the courts. We welcome the latter in the Desus Group because we are confident that it means that social work centres can devote more than ever to professional work in a troubled family, and they will no longer be in conflict of interest than has been the case now. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you don't mind, I'll finish. We consider the proposal of the Family Code in the Desus Group, or we are convinced that it is good, that it is socially acceptable, especially because it focuses on the child and what is best for him. In doing so, what is also extremely important to Desus, he explicitly gives all grandparents the opportunity to be most closely associated with their grandchildren. It is high time, colleagues and colleagues, to adopt a family code, because we do not want any further damage to our youngest and most vulnerable members of society. They deserve our children, beautiful and safe childhood and youth, and an encouraging future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the Review of the amendments tabled on 21 March 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to report to the debate. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Before I explain this amendment to the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, it seems right for me to say at least a sentence about what the Minister of Labour said today in her position. She was very clear on how to say that she was aware of the Slovenian public when she claimed that this family code, as proposed, had nothing to do with those who had been proposed and rejected in the referendum, when it came to the possibility that same-sex partnerships could adopt children. I don't think so. In the position of the Group of Members, I have made it very clear what this is about. However, I am sure that this is a perfidious enforcement of the regime, which has been clearly rejected by voters and voters in the referendum and a desperate attempt to overwhelm the Slovenian electoral body with verbal manoeuvres when it comes to the issue of same-sex adoptions. So what the Minister is, and what the coalition groups have been saying, I think is far from the true truth that is enshrined in this family code. And now I'm going back to our amendment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, our amendment, which we have proposed, will be supported. But I'm going to introduce those things that are important for us to know what we're going to decide about: "2. Article 1 is amended as follows: (1) The family is a living community of mothers, fathers, and children. ( 2) One - parent families are a living community of mothers, fathers, and children. 3) The extended family is an intergenerational community of old parents, their adult children, and grandchildren and other close relatives. 4) A temporary foster family is a family where a child whose mother and father are temporarily unable to care for a child is placed and adopted. (5) A caring family is a family in which a child whose mother and father are temporarily unable to care for the child is temporarily placed and cared for by his guardian or caregiver. 6) The age of the child is not a criterion for defining the family under this Article. 7) The country protects the family, motherhood, paternity and children.” And now I'm going to give an explanation to all these alumni. Family is a fundamental social cell based on nature and not on law or state regulation. The natural foundation of the family is the mother and father who take children into the family. This natural fact should also reflect the law. The general declaration on human rights also defines the family as a natural social cell and therefore the concept of family or family definition cannot be easily adapted to the ideological definitions of structures currently in power in a given country. The family is a natural and fundamental cell of society, which must be protected in the first place by the state. Moreover, most citizens of Slovenia do not accept polygamy or family as columns, which can lead to the definition proposed by the Government in the event of ideological abuse. One of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party to the definition of a family was adopted in relation to the definition of a family that managed to prevent the deletion of the status of the family to about 200,000 living communities, as found by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia in the case of the 2011 Family Code in its report of 30 June 2011 of the household and family. With the adoption of this amendment, the deletion of these families was prevented, but unfortunately the majority did not adopt the definition of the family proposed by the amendment of the Committee. The prevention of deletion due to the new definition of family and child in Article 5 is thus proposed in paragraph 6 of this Article. This amendment preserves the definition of the basic family, such as mothers, fathers and children, as expressed unequivocally in both referendums on this issue. In particular, and to avoid ignoring it, other living communities that are considered a family shall also be identified. In cases where not all are members of the family anymore, or when mothers and fathers are unable to care for their children, different forms of family can be formed in terms of responsibility, care, protection, and child rearing. This amendment proposes to complement the definition of a family that reflects the natural and social situation, taking into account families which, in the family code, deserve a special reference, including an extended family, which is also recognised by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. The problem of ignoring such a family, the family community by state authorities, was seen in the case of Korean boys, where it was completely ignored that old parents and grandchildren could also be family, as the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia found. It is also proposed to specifically define the so-called temporary spare family, which is essentially a foster family. Caregivers and foster parents would thus be only technical concepts and in practice would be named as children and be understood as part of the family. In this way, we would avoid humiliating names called rheumatists. The same applies to foster families. The paragraphs follow the current Resolution on the Basics of Family Policymaking in the Republic of Slovenia, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, 40/93, which states in the second section: “We also consider all living communities of children and adults who care for them permanently. Old parents and grandchildren, foster parents and foster parents, caregivers and children under guardianship, in recognition of the true importance of the extended family for children's development and education, it is essential to determine its importance in the basic family code.” So many introductorys.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much. A warm welcome to all those who participate in this discussion on the family code! Given that we had a lot of work on the family and social and work committee with all the articles we had and that I could not say some things, let me say them now in this first part when we are discussing the first amendment. Let me repeat what I think is meaningful and necessary to repeat, that Slovenia must have a modern family code. The one in force is 40 years old. At the time it was adopted, it was advanced, as I also pointed out on the committee, it was advanced, because it stipulated what was most important, it equated the non-marital community with the marriage. This was in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and also a broader something very important and progressive, and I think that Slovenia deserves to adopt a code this time, which will follow the development of the time to follow the needs to follow them, and that we will ensure the arrangements that are appropriate to modern times, to the relationship that we have between spouses, within the family and so on, and in the various other relations regulated by the Code. I must say that I find this solution, which concerns the transfer of powers, a certain transfer of jurisdiction in decision-making from the centres for social work to the courts, at some point in my heart. Why? These include adoption procedures, foster care, and, above all, child welfare measures. Why? Because this will somehow divide the competence of social work centres, they will still have this important function of advice and professional work and of giving an opinion on certain relationships, but that final decision on certain relationships to be regulated, as well as the necessary measures to be taken, will be referred to the court because different rules apply in court proceedings than in proceedings before the Centre for Social Work. In particular, they are more formal and also give more legal remedies and the protection of the party itself in the process. The rules are more specific, or these rules need to be adapted to the family code. When we discussed the family code on the committee itself, we were able to hear from the representatives of the Government that there is still a need — and it is also appropriate to adjust the application of the law itself — that the application of the law, the transfer of cases to the courts, should be adapted to the Law on Justice, the Law on Unjust Procedure and the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, that the working group already doing so should be established. This is a very important job, because if we now transfer the jurisdiction to the courts, these procedures, these laws governing these procedures are not adapted to this procedure, and we can put the courts before a task which will be very difficult for them, because the procedural rules themselves will not follow what these substantive provisions are following, the substantive provisions that we are now adopting under the family code. As regards the competence of judges, I think that if they are capable and judges are already deciding on contacts, they are already deciding on family matters and they even have established family departments. Although some district judges are already working in this area, it is still necessary to further train judges in this area, because they will still receive some of the substantively different cases they have dealt with so far. I must say that so far the judges have been thrown out — those who have been elected judges have no special education before they come to the hearing room. You're going to take a judicial exam. You're a tuff and you're a judge. You don't have any training, no mentoring, anything that could prepare you for the trial, then you're in charge of the hearing, you're in charge of the process, and you're in charge of it. It's not. Although some preparations are now being made at the Ministry of Justice, or else, if you are elected directly to the District Court and you get this department, it may be quite stressful if not, and for a very long time there was no preparatory education for judges. [[…]] In these sensitive cases, such as family matters, it is necessary to prepare the ground, how to say, to prepare judges for this work, and this is very important. I have no doubt that we could prepare ourselves, because if they decide on the most difficult, all cases that are at stake, in regular courts that fall within their jurisdiction, about the great billions, millions and I don't know what, I don't know why we wouldn't be able to decide these family matters. However, it is essential to prepare the training of these judges in order to train them, in addition to other conditions, then this work will be made much easier. As far as I know, it belongs to the courts of other cases, which are important and even less important, such as enforcement, somehow falling, so that there is room for the courts to deal with more than one case. But these are matters that the ministries will coordinate with each other, and only the Ministry of Justice has looked at the status of the cases, whether there is a need to expand the number of employees, to increase the number of judges. Then we'll keep this up. It is essential that these procedural laws be drawn up, for, say, most of these cases will, as we have been informed, take place in the majority of these proceedings under the Law on Unfair Procedure, which, as its name alone says, is a slightly milder form – let me use this term – a procedure where one court has more manoeuvre to use its position in favour of the parties. In a fair proceeding, there are only indications and evidence and if the party does not provide this, we have further restricted this to the Unfair Procedure Act. [[…]] And if you don't have the right clues and evidence, you're, what shall I say, baked in the process. The strictly formality is everything arranged and very much maneuverable space is not available, but there is more of this in the unfair process, and therefore these things need to be done so that the matter is significantly easier to glass up and that once it comes to life this transfer of jurisdiction, we will not have a stopper and we will only walk out of the rain under the fall; now it will not be the centre of social work, but it will be the court. It is essential that these cases are resolved and that procedures are prepared, as well as judges and courts, on these matters. I am sure that the ministries, justice and work and social services will cooperate in an appropriate manner before new cases are actually transferred from the centres to the courts. I think it is a very important arrangement, and this is a novelty that has also been advocated by NGOs, such as UNICEF and the Alliance of Youth Friends and others, that the law introduces the body of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Children and Family, which means the introduction of an organ that we have not yet had. I particularly welcome this solution, which was also proposed by non-governmental organisations; therefore, that this body, in addition to the family, concentrates substantially on the child itself, because there are many bodies and ministries that deal with the family in a way, and we are also reminded of this by international institutions, such as the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which is set up to oversee the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child within the United Nations – some of these human rights conventions, which have this role of overseeing the implementation of these international treaties. This committee has warned us that in Slovenia one body to supervise should have a hand somehow over how the policy of the exercise of children's rights in Slovenia is. So, who would be focused, focused on the child, and maybe a little less on the whole family, because somehow this family gets around the baby and maybe sometimes we're not paying attention and we don't have the baby's attention. Therefore, I think that this body, which is provided for in the Family Code, is very important because it is intended to monitor and assess the situation of children and families, with the emphasis on the realization of children's rights, to propose professional starting points for the adoption of legislation and strategic documents in the field of children and the family, to consider proposals for laws in the field of children and the family, to prepare initiatives for the coordinated functioning of the competent authorities, because we are often running against that wall as to how to say when it is necessary to ensure the cooperation of the various bodies – unfortunately, it is still quite often so – different bodies that have their fields and deal with them all, say, children; but when it is necessary to connect and coordinate all this is a problem quite often. I just think that one such body, which will focus on the child as such and not on the areas and kindergartens that we have across different ministries or other bodies, is more than welcome and needed. It will also monitor the implementation, adoption of legislation and measures in the field of children and the family and will then be able to say, see, this has been okay and these things need to be changed, adjusted, and will have one review and a picture of how family policies and policies and measures in the field of children are being implemented. This is a very welcome thing, and I welcome it. However, as far as maintenance is concerned, I just need to express one opinion that was not accepted, but I thought it was a good idea and perhaps we will think about it sometime in the future. One non-governmental organisation suggested that, as far as maintenance is concerned, basic maintenance should be determined and then those who are committed to maintenance should prove that this maintenance cannot be so high. In fact, they would prevail — most of the time it happens that dependents are fathers, although they are not the only ones now, many times are mothers — but that those who are essentially committed to maintenance would then have to prove that such a level of maintenance is not justified. Because many times it happens that that mother, for example, is the most often a mother, gets children or children, and then she has to prove in the process, besides, that the separation is here, that she has to take care of the children and before she gets the maintenance, then before the court awards her maintenance – it can also be arranged at the social work centre and it is out – but if she is in the process, then that mother must prove now and propose all the evidence in the process that this maintenance should actually amount to. [[...]] In short, there is an evidentiary burden on it or on the child’s remaining to prove how long the maintenance should be. This is also a psychological burden in the process, and for those who are not the real ones and who have this family crisis, then prove it in the process, it is difficult, it is not easy. Well, this proposal has not been adopted because it is also somehow a highly defined baseline maintenance, which is a problem. But what was raised in the discussions with the Ministry of Justice was that it was supposed to apply in this area as regards certain maintenance, an unfair procedure, where the court would then be better able to help the party, which would then be the legal representative of the children who would receive maintenance. In short, let's say a mother who has to prove in the process the amount of maintenance her children are supposed to receive. In short, I would like to express my regret that this initial maintenance has not been accepted, but I certainly expect that then, in this unfair procedure, one way will be done to ensure that those who remain will still be made better able to obtain this maintenance, because the same process is stress on their own. And if you come to court and you have to enforce certain rights under the rules of justice and bear evidence, and I don't know what and make statements, it's not easy. I have also seen this on the part of the judge, and I have seen quite a number of times the plight of those laymen, the parties in proceedings that do not know these rules. Even worse, family procedures involve divorce: children, emotions and everything, and I really expect this thing to be arranged in such a way that it will be significantly easier for the one who enforces subsistence. If I may already make one point. After all, neither the center nor the court can regulate and there is no law to regulate it can regulate the personal relationship between two, three, four. He can't! And if we expect this to be settled by law, this cannot be regulated by law. After all, these are personal relationships that have different reasons for being like this, but in marriage we can try the best that can be done about this, we cannot do other things. So many maybe now and then with individual amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. In reviewing or rereading the Family Code, article 2 reads: “The family is a living community of a child regardless of the age of the child, with both parents or with the other adult, if it takes care of the child and has certain obligations and rights under this Code to the child.” And, of course, the second paragraph: “For the benefit of children, the family enjoys special protection of the country.” Article 2, which was adopted on the parental committee and was proposed by the SDS, Nova Slovenija did not support it, because we still insist and still have enough arguments to say that the other adult with whom the child lives was found in the family code for unnecessary. Since also the so-called parental right that will be distributed, and this was also the opinion of the ZPS, it is called the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, it is not necessary, because this right is simply then passed as it would have been a parent. All rights are derived from this title and are not required in the code “with another adult”. In New Slovenia we still oppose this and continue to insist, so our amendment to Article 2 is once again tabled that "the family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of children". The family definition of the family was rejected at the family referendum in 2012. It seems right to me that when we are preparing a family code that actually protects the family and, of course, also protects the children in this family and gives us the opportunity to develop and have a happy, happy childhood that in some way does not interfere with the change of definition. It was said that Slovenia must receive a modern family code. I fully agree, because relations have changed because the needs of families have changed, but the basic importance has not changed. The family must remain the foundation, solid, which, of course, will enable not least good society, good citizens and vice versa. As I said in my position or in the position of the New Slovenia Group. And in the family field, you can't play with some modern approaches. Here you have to be a little conservative or, I'll say, not least traditional. However, the Family Code must provide and accelerate the protection of the child's greatest benefit, both in the field of the regulation of parental rights or parental rights, both in the field of the granting of care and, of course, in the field of the protection of their lives, benefits and, of course, some solid and normal childhood. That is why it seems to me that it is essential to do so and that we cannot change some of the definitions that are fundamental. And we still insist on this in New Slovenia, so I expect you to support the amendment of New Slovenia in this reading of the family code. If you would only touch upon the consideration and transfer of the protection of the child's benefits, the speed of decision-making with CSD to the courts, you might want to ask the Minister, in particular, one question. I am particularly interested in this – the transfer of decision-making to the protection and benefit of children to the courts. I wonder if this is where the courts are supposed to decide at what time. Why? Because sometimes, however, CSDs were quick to decide certain rights. Some rights. Now this case has been brought before a court and I myself, as a Member, have received a number of questions about how long the courts will decide. Of course, there is a question of the overload of the courts, perhaps a lack of skills for the judges – as the colleague Murglov also spoke about it – but we need to know that these decisions must also take place very quickly in the courts. And especially for the benefit of the child. Because it seems to me that if we don't all follow each other together and if we leave things behind or maybe we don't take such an intense approach to solving the problem, we won't eliminate the sad stories that we are witnessing to them – especially from the media, and there is a lot of them that don't come into the media. Above all, we must all strive to get in this area faster, better, as has been said, a modern family code, but in respect of the fundamental family. So it's a parent-child union. And here goes, of course, my nod to colleague Miriam Bon Klanjšček, who said that this family code puts the child at the forefront and then everything around him is tied. I think that our definition of family remains a living community of parents and children, and also respects those couples who cannot have children, so I expect reflection and not least support our definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. The previous debate said that traditional values and traditional family should be maintained in the area of family, and this should be aligned with the parent and child community, but the concept of family as a family of parents and children is a force of modern, you know. There hasn't been such a notion of a family around here much longer than the last 100 years, but, okay. In my debate, I will focus on some of the general points of this law, on the criticism that we are presenting in the United Left and which we are also following with our amendments, but this is a debate on the first amendment, so that I will afford it. As I have already said in the position of the parliamentary group, this family code is the fruit of constant failure and adaptation under the referendum threat of the clerical right and is nothing more than a political capitulation of the Ministry of Labour, of course and beyond, then the government and coalition parties. I understand that there is a compromise to be taken at some point, but there is a failure already within the compromise framework, and this is totally unacceptable for us in the United Left. The right woman demanded priority adoption by her grandparents — and she received parental care. The right hand demanded a change in the definition of marriage – and this change of definition was also obtained. And so on. Such, at first glance, small concessions to the right, so that a law can go through Parliament and avoid unloved referendums, preferably on human rights that should not be at all, actually reinforce discrimination, which is already present in our society. And they offer some extensions to keep getting higher, because, at a symbolic level, such a failure is just an expression of the political emptiness of the central parties, so I will say that, under external pressure, they are leaning increasingly to the right. This trend can be monitored throughout the entire mandate, over the last three years, and is not limited to family policy alone. Here we have the rights of minority members with a Slovenian passport, but a similar search for consensus could also be monitored when adopting legislation on refugee issues, the Aliens Act was a direct effect of government and coalition crackdown on right-wing rhetoric of fear, seeking an external enemy and so on. The same applies to the powers of police officers, soldiers and the State Border Control Act and so on, since this list is long, I will not walk the entire range. In the United Left we wanted and we want, after all, to move on to family law, but with this coalition that is politically capitulating to the right, we can only be happy if it does not go back. We could see on the board all those dark forces that rallied into the hall and predicted referendums. I mean, there Aleš Primc screamed about the rebellion of the prodigal left, that the code lacked love and loyalty – as if it could be prescribed by law, after all – and that unborn children should still be granted the status of a child, a family member and so on. In short, what I'm trying to say is that this failure to the clerical right has no limit, because it can work in infinity. The church had to be deep enough to demand more and more until it was in every bedroom, and then they might be happy. And on the path of such a compromise, which is really the path of denial of rights, we cannot let go. Let me add here what we have already heard in this debate, and we will probably hear it in this debate. In these pressures of violation and denial of women's rights to same-sex couples, and so on, the lawyers of the church's morals often refer to the people's availability. Mentioning the will of the people, when it requires violations of the rights of minorities or an infringement of the constitutionally guaranteed rights of individuals and which also includes the promotion of intolerance, is the main component, the propaganda component of fascism. I'm not saying we're dealing with fascism, I'm just saying we're dealing with some operations that we need to know where they're going and where they're coming from. Some rights, which are here in a matter such as the right to abortion, equality regardless of race, sex, sexual orientation and the like, are constitutionally protected categories and this is for a reason. And, of course, we must not give in here under pressure to eliminate them. In short, what I want to say here is that in citing people's resources is really a fascist and not a democratic argument, it is a pianist operation of certain conservative structures in our society, which we must not inherit. We respond to all these criticisms in the United Left with three amendments. In this discussion, we have had more on the committee, unfortunately not adopted, but we will focus on the content of these amendments in further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Respectable Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! As has already been explained today, there has already been a lot of talk on the committee itself about the family code, so I will not owe myself too much. Nevertheless, it seems to me that, in view of the presentation of the views of the groups in question, some of the facts still need to be answered. I personally welcome the proposal for a family code, because, of course, it significantly improves the situation of children in family relations, not least before the trial itself in court, during the proceedings in court, that is, during the trial itself, and also after the completion of the proceedings. So when we talk about the family code, we also talk about how certain powers are transferred from social work centres to so-called family courts. In this way, the centres of bureaucracy themselves will be burdened to some extent, while at the same time only understanding the competences of employees at social work centres will be framed. I am also talking in the light of the media-response cases which we have already discussed several times in this esteemed National Assembly, i.e. cases of cross-breeding boys, which have also resulted in interpretation against the Minister in the final stage. Speaking of the family code, we can certainly talk about ensuring more effective protection of the benefit of children, which is also justified at the highest level by our Constitution. The law also regulates various mediation procedures, which has already been re-explained by the Ministry, including by the establishment of a child advocate institution, i.e. an advocate of an unofficial person, when parents, in divorce proceedings, cannot, of course, agree on what is best for the child or what the child’s greatest benefit is. This seems particularly good to me because the understanding of parental responsibility, about which there has already been a talk, which, of course, in the perception of the public in my personal opinion, is too often maligned to disability, including with some unfortunately tabled amendments to the opposition, which I will also touch further. Now that we're talking about the role of the child's advocates' institute, it's unfortunate that in the separate procedures themselves these procedures tend to be painful, if I may say so. In the past, it has happened, and, of course, it will happen that within these procedures, the separations begin to flirt with each other and often do not feel what this really means for the child, who together or who is accompanying the process. When we talk about this separation process, we are also talking about, of course, the process when this initial parental motivation for the care of its own child goes through the process then because of the various effects and some emotional anxiety this care for the child turns into a child's pool, and it is only right that this process or this unfortunate wheel that begins to happen is simply cut off by an official person who in this case will be the child's advocate and will ultimately judge what is the greatest benefit for the child. So not only do I welcome this legal option, but I feel it is essential today, if we are to talk at the legislative level about the establishment of a family environment that is the most promising for a child. When we talk about parenting, we cannot go beyond the definition of a family, which is also the subject of word on the committee itself. Let me remind you that the coalition supported the proposed amendment of the SDS Group, where a broader legal definition of the concept of family was proposed by the Ministry alone. I must say that it surprises me, however, that the SDS Group has summarized the amendments that Mrs Zevnik represented on the committee itself as a representative of a particular political interest organisation, which in fact is very strongly ideological in understanding family policy even through, say, a ban on abortion. It is an extreme philosophy that affects constitutional norms that I personally oppose and will oppose them in the future. On the Committee by the SDS Group, we have not heard why the amendments tabled before the Committee are good and in which the amendments tabled for the plenary, i.e. the current meeting, are better, except for the exception that they regulate the different forms of families or each form of family separately. This, in my view, is particularly strange, because it is usually precisely by the SDS Group that we hear many times that our legislation is over-ruled. I think it is really inappropriate to try to break the family code indirectly before the public, even on waves of some ideology that really does not have the benefit of children, but does not have any connection. I also speak of what has been presented in the position of the parliamentary groups on the indirect race against the same-sex persons who are not affected by this Code. This is what we all know today, because this question, if you would like, has been specified within the Partnerships Act tabled by the honourable Member of colleague Möderndorfer and adopted by the SMC Group. I personally agree that the rights should be harmonised, regardless of the sexual orientation of the individual, but unfortunately the reality is that we have already had two referendums on this subject and that it would be irresponsible, even at the symbolic level – since this was evident to the SMC Group – and personally I think it would be irresponsible for the family code to fall through the perception of those individuals who are not in the same sex, and that this family code still affects them. I regret this situation, but I cannot agree that when we talk about these dictatorships, we are talking about the threats of new referendums, but we need to talk in particular in the light of the results of the previous two. It would be difficult for him to judge himself as someone who had been politically capitulated in that sense. We also confirmed the article on the marriage of husband and wife on the committee, and now we have the proposal of one husband and one wife on the table. I think that we should rely a little more on the wealth of Slovenian language and also on the spelling we have and that simply “men and women” means one and one. This really surprises me, because this proposal comes from the New Slovenia Group, which has an excellent Slovenian language teacher in its ranks, who could, of course, also warn them from the point of view of the language. But they're gone. Then we will hear again how our legislation has been overrated through various things. The fact is that polygamy is banned in Slovenia and that the current practice of polygamy does not allow it. And we just don't have anything to do here. As for the problem of equalizing the extra-marital union and marriage in the adoption process itself, here I would simply like to have respected colleagues from New Slovenia who have put this issue in their position, if they can explain to me in a more frank manner what my family, which is not based on the marriage community, differs from a family which is based on the marriage community, that this bureaucratic record or notary record actually becomes the main argument for whether or not someone is suitable for the adoption of a child. I simply cannot believe that there are still people who simply adopt this bureaucratic record as a substantive argument. Of course, I don't want any replicas then, which would also be my child growing up in a loving family, but in an extra-marital community, that of course we won't start talking, that maybe my child is a bastard. I think we just have to stop this distinction and such a dictatorship because, for today, if we want to talk about the modern family code, they are totally inappropriate. I would also like to refer to the amendment to Article 85 tabled by the United Left, which, of course, speaks here about the pre-nuptial contract. Unfortunately, the amendment does not substantively solve anything because the possibility of contractual regulation is legally given in Article 65 of the Family Code, which is not open. So if paragraph 85 is deleted, where the contractual property regime is only described in more detail, then of course this does not mean that pre-nuptial contracts cannot be concluded or negotiated before the marriage is concluded, but that such a solution to the proposed amendment would only delete this legal regime. Thus, the content of this proposal in Article 85 would be deleted only by the content, not by the possibility itself, or by the pre-nuptial contract. In fact, this would be even more wrong, and in my opinion it could bring a lot more abuse. Thus, the re-examination of the pre-nuptial contract is entirely on the ground, it is legitimate, but it cannot be regulated by law at this time, so I will not be able to support the amendment. So much so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Erika Girl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I have to start by saying that I feel about the same way I feel on the board today. There, too, we had a family code, which is quite extensive matter, and just as much, if not more amendments, of course most came from the SDS. Members of the SDS were also more than present on the committee and discussed the content of individual amendments. The short time they were present, we saw only a few procedural trips and not another, so I am looking forward to having these few Members debate more substantively today. We are currently on the amendment to Article 2 and it is particularly interesting here. Why? Because we have actually adopted an amendment from the SDS Group on the Committee. I have an amendment review here. The amendment of the SDS Group, which we have adopted, says that the family is a child's living community, regardless of the age of the child, with both parents or with the other adult and so on. We've accepted that, but today it's not right. Today, they decided that their amendment, that their definition of family was no longer appropriate and that they proposed something else. Well, the other one, of course, is not their proposal, but somehow adopted by the Participant's amendment and me, it actually saddens me because now you kind of want to describe what the whole family is. The fact is that each of us has a life course in its own way, sometimes the way we want and plan, but most of the time not and of course each of us is in one's own family, special, different, certainly not a uniformed family. Nevertheless, I think that the family is still just a family and there is no need to mention that some children live in a single parent family, some in an extended and all that the SDS has already decided to list. Just as we are not satisfied to hear that love can be only unilateral or partial or widespread, as we do not want to hear that freedom can only be partial or sometimes recognized, sometimes not. So is the family term that we like to hear and understand quite uniformly. The family is a family, whatever we have, and it forms a family according to this family code of children. I agree with many, and I personally do not like that it is somehow the importance of a marriage, but not love, but I am willing to accept a compromise and confirm it and I do not feel it as a surrender and I do not feel it as a shift to the right, but I feel it as a policy and as a reality also or mainly because of the referendum and the clearly expressed will of people. However, with the United Left, of course, I absolutely agree that, in some respects, this family code can be discriminatory, and I think that when I judge and decide why I will give my voice to this family code, I especially think about whether it is better at this point than what we have. And yes, it's better and it's a change after 40 years, and we all agree that it's necessary, so my vote will go to this family code. Of course, I sincerely want the Constitutional Court in the Republic of Slovenia to review this subject and give its opinion once and for all, and then there will be no time to arrange it as the majority in this National Assembly thinks it is right. I will now also touch on the debates and concerns of New Slovenia. I'm very sorry that colleague Ive Dimic is not among us right now. In her debate, the equality between the marriage and the extramarital partnership was problematic. I really want him to tell me further why he thinks that, for example, me and my partner are less suitable for us to adopt together and, of course, to be exemplary, loving, and whatever they think is right for a child or why he thinks that she is more suitable for the care of a child just because she is married. Finally, let me say that the marriage and extramarital community in Slovenia has been equal for 40 years. I imagine that in Slovenia, when we change legislation, we change it by not taking rights, giving them to more people. I wish that we would not take a step back in Slovenia; 40 and more years ago. If it wasn't sad, then I don't know what would be sad. New Slovenia is also interested in this definition of who this other adult is. Well, let's say that if old parents get parental care, then they're the other adult. So, a child, according to you, wouldn't live in a family if he was cared for by his parents, because your children can only be cared for by fathers and mothers. What if I took care of my uncle? Are you really willing to look this child in the eye and tell him that he doesn't live in the family because he didn't have any luck in life and maybe his mom and dad died and now the parental care has taken over his uncle and now it's not a family? I really don't know how to devalue a mother and a father by calling a "family" a community where we put a child at the center. We have also heard many words about adoptions today, even though we all know that this is funny and sad, especially one simple lie. Article 22 of the Law states that two different sexes are required for the condition of marriage. Well, only a man and a woman can marry. And 215. Article 215 says that the couple, which are different sexes, can only adopt children together. And yes, two gays can't adopt him. That's why it's one big manipulation. Of course, I agree with Mr Pojbič, we can adopt him, we already know of single-parent unilateral adoptions. But that's possible now, and if we don't accept this code, it'll still be possible. It's nothing that this code brings or carries. In fact, Mr Pojbič also mentioned Korean boys, in the sense that the old parents and grandchildren in this case did not form a family. Yes, this definition now actually denies this possibility and nothing else! I hope that we will adopt this family code, I must admit that sometimes I even wish there was a referendum and that it would finally show up and that people would finally understand how low-down they are, how low-minded the intentions of all those who speak to him who threaten him are. We're changing something that needs to be changed, and we're changing it for the better. And, of course, there's no way to talk now that a coalition like a bulldozer is going through everything. We have accepted the amendments, both New Slovenia and SDS, but of course it is not enough. It's never enough. In this I agree with my colleague Kordish: it is never enough. We can't accept compromise, even if it's for the good of the child. But here we always come to the fact that there is no one really important child, but adults, old parents, for example, maybe same-sex partners who live together and some raise a child together. We always end up with adults and not with a child, and that's sad. More below.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All hail again! In my debate, I will take advantage of this first amendment and present my position a little wider. So, I am sure that after 41 years we will get a modern family code aimed at improving the situation of the child in family relations, and this law will also improve the implementation of the principle of protection of the benefit of children. Since we are talking about the family code, I believe that all the rights of the family, the whole family, are covered, by being more at the forefront, of course, of the rights and benefits of children. In my opinion, the law is very well prepared, taking into account all the proposals of the civil initiative, opposition parties and the professional public as well. But it looks like it's wrong again. There's something wrong with our opposition colleagues because they've already announced the referendum. They also circulate in public, I will say, certain deceptions by old parents that we have not actually taken sufficient care of adoptions – for old parents. But that's not true. By providing parental care, we have also taken very good care of old parents. In order to maintain family ties, not to erase the names and traces of biological parents, we do not call this adoption, but we give our parents and other relatives the possibility of parental care. Of course, the court will decide who is fit to receive this parental care. Therefore, the granting of parental care to a relative means the exact same rights and responsibilities in caring for a child, except for the duty of children to survive as biological parents did. Perhaps you would explain your concerns here or that you know what this means if your parents adopted their grandchildren. Old parents would become parents of their grandchildren by adoption. So that would erase the footprints of their children, so that their children, my children, are the parents of my grandchildren. It's hard to understand, but that's right. So you lose track of your parents because your parents, my daughters and sons, are erased from your birth certificate, and I become their mother. Although it's easy to understand, I don't know why old parents don't understand it, because in fact, their grandchildren are robbing the most important one, it's moms and dads. Well, my name will be written in the birth certificate, not my daughter's name, which is basically my grandchild's mother. When I talk – and believe me, I talk a lot with my parents about adoption and about the new institution of parental care – they tell me that a large majority of my old parents would find it difficult to adopt their grandchildren, but they will be happy if they are able to get parental care for their grandchildren. They tell me so; we have trained our children, educated them, and brought them to bread. We don't know if we're gonna be able to offer this to our grandkids with our pension. We're going to rob our grandchildren of the rights they would have in their own way, like their dead parents. So it's pension, inheritance, and also property. But if they receive parental care that is the same as if their children or grandchildren were adopted, except that they maintain all the family ties of other grandparents, including aunts and uncles, and so on. So I think that old parents should be aware that this code does not take anything away from us, but gives us, perhaps certain rights that will be more favourable to our grandchildren and to all relatives. In this code, I also welcome the parents' pre-expressed will that, in the event that something happens to them or that they are no longer able to take care of their children, they can express their will — persons who will put their children in the care and care of their children in case something happens to them. Of course, there are no exceptions to grandparents here either, since they will be able to stand in line to be given this parental care unless it is contrary to the interests of the child. A family support program is also of great importance. So preparing for marriage, for family, for parenthood, for upbringing and relationships, and helping to resolve possible disputes. That's of great importance. Many young people decide for their family and somehow see only those beautiful things, nowhere do they see that the family is also difficult and that there are also conflicts in the family, including great responsibilities toward children, to upbringing and to the overall care of children and the whole family. This is a big and responsible task, and if young parents are prepared for a common life with this help, they will also create a more responsible environment for the healthy development of the child, which we know is not just food, it is not just physical development, but it is also a complex development, I will also say health, education, education and so on. The Institute also wants to promote positive parenting and, of course, the sharing of tasks within the family. So, father and mother have the same rights and responsibilities in the family. Sharing tasks both in education and in all family matters and, of course, later, when certain problems arise, they will also be able to receive support in dealing with possible pressures and in improving the ability to control their emotions in school and in learning. Just as we have a school for parents, which is preparation for childbirth, it is so important — or even more important perhaps — to prepare for family and family management if this is in trouble. As we see from everything, the proposal contains a lot of news for the well-being of families and for the well-being of the most vulnerable, it is a child. That is why I will also support this proposal. But I will not support the amendments of the opposition groups for all the reasons that have already been said today. I hope, however, that, through this debate, we will find that this proposal brings a lot of good for the family and especially for the children, which is also our goal. I want things not to come to the fore again and again that would put this law in a bad light, or that certain things, such as abortion, might even appear, and we all know what is going on in the background. I certainly support this code, which is really well prepared, and I want it to really see the light of the world, just as it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Minister Anja Kopač Dark has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u94	Dear Vice President, thank you for saying so! Dear Members and Members! Article 2 of the Family Code, which follows the adoption of the amendment on the Committee, reads: “The family is a living community of the child, regardless of the age of the child, with both parents or with the other adult, if the child is cared for and has certain obligations and rights to the child.” The second paragraph says: “For the benefit of children, the family enjoys special protection of the state.” Now I am going to propose to NSI, where it says that children are well cared for today and that there is no need to change the definition of family. Before that, in the Marriage and Family Relations Act, the definition of the family reads: "The family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of children." This is the first part of the definition, “The Family is a living community of a child, regardless of the age of the child...” because it was a desire to include all those who are studying, because according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the child is defined until the age of 18, so we included all those children. “...with both or one of the parents” – that is, we have only divided the parents, that it is clear that we also take into account the single parent and traditional family where both parents are. The second part is the same, i.e. “enjoys the special protection of the family”. If we look at the proposal, and all the time it's being exposed to what and everything is disturbing, it's all about the delivery that he's saying. “... or with another adult, if the child is cared for and has certain obligations and rights under this Code to the child.” If I listened correctly, it was very clear that one of the behind, I don't know who we're giving something to, an adult, and that we never explain who this person is. Now I'm going to the SDS amendment, because that's where the answer is. In fact, this person according to this code — clearly what he can get. We can talk about shared parental care, where it involves relatives. So yes; this other adult can be an old parent because you proposed to include them and that they even have the possibility of adoption. Then the foster family is this person, because in this law we define as a child care or care measure, so this person is actually insolvent, who is written to have rights under this code. So it's not just a third, a fourth, a fifth person, a neighbor, but according to this code, it has rights and obligations to this child – and that's clearly what they are. There's basically everything you're suggesting, where more sociologically, which would basically be very close to me, you're trying to divide your family. But because of the fact that — and I want to make this very clear now and it saddens me — it is not an object of family definition. We can follow your definition, and yours, because unfortunately today we are all speaking frankly about the referendum, we will talk again about who is more for children, who is more for traditional family, and in fact, with the definition and everything we say here has nothing to do with anything. [[…]] And now I'm going to show one more thing how -- because you always say that we don't follow any suggestions. I sincerely wanted to compromise on the definition, because I believe that family is the basic cell of society, that it is important, as a society, that we get consensus on this. Listening for an hour, I don't know if anyone is capable of such a compromise, even though we have now said that everything is already involved, in fact, to be achieved. I'm sure if we wanted to reach a compromise, we would have reached it; but because you didn't want to. [[…]] If I say so, for example, I am also surprised by the opinion of the unrelated Members. A family can certainly, if it's not a child, you can have, normally, a family. This code is intended to protect the most vulnerable, so the child is at the forefront and this is also in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. You have added to your amendment – I think – the seventh paragraph, which says that the state protects the family, motherhood, paternity, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection. This is also stated in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 53, so that this article is not necessary – you will not then say that because of this we have not accepted, the family code does not put the child at the forefront. We received comments from the NS in the public debate and from 15. Seven. We've been very cooperative. In your opinion, in article 3, you say that there is no statement that the importance of marriage is in the establishment of a family. We've taken care of it. At the same time, you believe that a transitional period is needed to carry out the delegation of power, point out the lack of staff to CSD, propose the establishment of multi-disciplinary teams to CSD, which will propose expertly justified proposals to the courts, draw attention to the duplication of powers of CSD and courts, and that procedures should be clear and transparent. We've taken a lot of this into account. As I have received the questions – it is clearly written that the courts must, within a short period of time, the urgent procedures are precisely defined; in 12 hours it is necessary to give a provisional order; the courts must decide on this provisional order within 24 hours. We have moved on for two years so that everything can be prepared, we have assured you that the competent Justice Committee is unvoted against this family code. In short, more than responsiblely we are aware that some work will be needed both in the courts, and financial resources are foreseen for this; in short, everything that is possible to be done in advance, we have tried to do. He also suggested that grandchildren adopt grandparents. We have tried to take this into account in the way that we have given parental care, which I believe is a much better solution than it would have been otherwise. At the same time, you felt that adequate multidisciplinary support for foster parents was essential in the care regime, and we also replied to the adopters that this was already regulated in the relevant Act on the implementation of foster care. But we didn't take into account the custody that you're proposing to change the system, and we said that custody would be specifically regulated in a separate law. And lastly, we have taken note of the sixth comment, these are programmes in support of the family, including preparation for parenthood. All of this has been taken into account, and the opening talk said that we have taken some of this into account, but because of something else we have not, of course, you will not fully support the law. I understand, but let's be honest with each other. The United Left on the other side of this law, although families need it to be needed by children, especially the most vulnerable ones, because it is those where unfortunately the state must intervene – I would be very glad that such children in this country should not be required to have them, and if it were possible to command families to have permanent relationships, marriages, relationships of loving permanent relationships, and then not have children to be taken care of by the State, I will immediately write it into law. But, unfortunately, that's not possible. And because of the children who need this protection, not because you in principle think that I don't know what, we let go of the right hand and you can go ideologically – because of the children, because they need this family code. And the Partnership Act - it was a regulated area! We cannot say that we are not regulated in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. But that's not enough either. It's never enough. I mean, five years ago, there's nothing left. The first — five years ago — was a family definition problem; although — you will not believe it! –, this definition of the family was given by Minister Cotmanov to the government in an identical manner. You know why? Because it was proposed by a group of family law experts as a definition that would include all the different forms and which would in some way be the most acceptable. I think that – 2005, 2004 – this first order for the renovation of the family code was made. No, it was not disputed — until they were same - sexed, but it was controversial. Now there's no same-sex, but it's still controversial, but we can go through all the facts. [[…]] And Mr Pojbič, when you show me where the law is written — as you have already called — a son. Then see that we regulate the foster parents and the ugly ones — will you show me an article or an explanation? Then you can tell me I'm lying. Okay. But I'm going to say for so long that you're deceiving it because it's not. Please! Now I don't know whether I should be sending letters and Members or referring to the people who are listening. In the family code we tried to take full account of the different interests and to understand that the family is something that is the highest value to Slovenes and Slovenes. Please, let's not let the family become a field of ideological warfare, because this is happening today. There's nothing else! And the family code — children need it. The fact that it is a political gathering of one or the other has no connection with the family code, with the definition of a family involved or excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you, Madam Minister, for this explanation. Mr. Marian Pojbich, a replica. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u96	Now was an extremely pleasant opportunity to recognize that I would not say a very ugly word that I would not like to use. You know the propensity, what does it mean? I didn't use it, but I just want to ask if we are – I think that everyone sitting in this House knows what that means. We had the opportunity to see the performance of the Minister trying to attack MEPs and Members of the parliamentary group with her complete arrogance and all those who see a particular matter differently than it does in the National Assembly. I must also replicate the fact that the Minister said that how else could this code be adopted and without any problem if those there were prepared for compromise. I ask the Minister when this family code was being prepared and how many times has she been in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group - I demand that she speak it publicly. And then let her say that she is the one who is not ready to compromise, and until SD Falanga leaves the social and the area that the Minister covers so long as she has been Secretary of State, we will not find in this society the appropriate compromise and solutions that are important to this society and to our children. Until this moment, I only hope that the next elections will show that they are very close, that the SD will never again get this source into its own hands. Since what he did with this department – ask the directors of social work centres a little bit, what was the direction given by the minister when it came to the law on protective supplements and so on. Go take a look! And don't get upset, please, because I didn't mention you anywhere, I'm talking. As long as I'm talking, you listen to me, if you don't, you can go out. And I'm not going to let anyone fool around here and tell me that I'm cheating and lying when he's doing that because we weren't ready to compromise. The Slovenian Democratic Party has always been prepared to compromise when it comes to the interest of every citizen, every group of citizens and citizens, and every one that we are solving, either by law or by law. And here are the children in the foreground. And we will not and will not allow ourselves in the Slovenian Democratic Party to play any ideological games on this account, nor to the Social Democrats, but even less to the Minister who totally destroyed social life in our society definitively. I hope that God will come who will say, "Look, this must be the end."
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you, Mr. Pojbich. As you have named, and as Vice-President of the National Assembly, who must be objective, but you have named me as part of the falange, and I will ask you to stick to the rules of procedure. Replica means replication, and please don't deceive. And state the truth. Procedurally, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, and then I will start another round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, this debate shows that some will not be able to abstain from their comments, which, in principle, does not bother me. But I do have a procedural problem. First we are some marked or you are labeled as a falango, then you will soon be a clicker, then you will end up with a skyscraper and what we are actually looking for in this space. This seems unworthy to me, and therefore I think he deserves a reminder from his colleague Pojbič for a simple reason, because if no one else is holding him back, then he just doesn't have a limit anymore. And then everything is allowed here in this room. I warn you, we have here all the time one element of hate speech, but this is not even an hate speech; this is disqualification. The proposer is here to defend his proposal, in this case, this is the Minister and the Members to defend our positions. But when we start hurting each other, then we don't hear the contents anymore, but we only hear disqualification. This is a serious warning, and therefore I think Mr Pojbič deserves a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer. I follow your advice. I hope that we will maintain a decent attitude and, above all, deal with real, real content. Now, if you'll excuse me, before I start another round, just a brief replica, Madam Minister, and then you'll have a chance to reenlist. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you. I will only give a brief reply to Mr Pojbic, who is not here. In short, the SDS Group was invited to both the councils that they were. We have not received any written comments on the family code, so we have not specifically applied. That's why we've been to New Slovenia. So, this shows in some way how we worked together and how we were ready to hear each other. But I'd like you to show us where the nursery rhymes, because that's what I'm really interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u101	Colleagues, my colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the next round. Let's start with the application. The application shall be made. First of all, Mrs Jelka Godec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Today in the National Assembly, when the debate is again on the family code, I no longer know how many times in previous mandates and in this mandate, I must say that Members are not discussing the family code, but what the SDS has invested, and what the right has invested, and what it has not tabled, and what Primc said and what it has not said. I didn't hear it in this room today – it's true that I wasn't always – but I asked my colleagues who was threatening the referendum here today. Who? Please, if you'll answer me, who here today was threatening a referendum. This is the first thing I've heard on the left all the time, as well as by the Ministry, that we're already threatening with a referendum. If anyone is, then say the name; I don't know, Mr. Pojbič, Mrs. Beautiful Šimenka – anyone. Tell him he threatened a referendum. That's one thing. That we've summarized it. Tell me, the right hand, or the other side, has taken down the Pritecs. Tell me which ones! What amendments have we summarized? Because we didn't! At least those who have been read to us — about abortion. I'm talking today! I'm talking today. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm talking today, look! Because there are new amendments on the table today. Those amendments that were on the committee were rejected and we have nothing to discuss and those articles are closed. And it's not funny, Madam Minister, because you're deceiving people because today you're saying that the SDS is synthesizing Primce's amendments, not you, but there too – now laugh – because they're not! Because these articles are closed and we don't collect them. Tell me, it was on the board. But on the board, the matter has been dismissed and the matter is over. Ad acta! And stop these things! And your arrogance today, if the SDS didn't comment, we didn't go to you. Yeah, because you're the one who's making the law, you're the one who's introducing it! You should go to the parliamentary groups. I don't know what's funny to you, Madam Secretary. But other ministers come from school, for example. So, you're selling things, you're selling them, you're going to have to go to the people, and you're going to have to go to the Members to accept things, or you're going to compromise them. Yes, you're arrogant today! Because for the third time, you've been trying to get the family code through – because you will, because it's not a problem. I agree with you, let's say that in Article 2 – yes, you have a defined family as it goes, but our proposal is more transparent, more divided, and it is not necessary to strike with such arrogance over SDS proposals, but with arguments, Madam Minister. It is also true that it is already written in the Constitution to protect the family under which article 53 states: “The State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood” and so on, and that we have written it into law. You also wrote: “For the benefit of children the family enjoys special protection of the country”. The family is already enjoying special protection because of their status. Why did you go to write this? It is not necessary because the Constitution itself guarantees this under Article 53. The Constitution provides for the protection of the family, regardless of what you've just written in there. We've only given you a copy of the Constitution, so we can see what you'll do with this amendment. Because you're going to reject it, you're going to reject it, because that's already in the Constitution. You wrote the same thing in there. See, today this is a third attempt by the Ministry, which is also trying to get through the family code in every way, because it failed in 2012 and in 2015, and in addition, by making it possible for the same-sex partners to be adopted in specific articles, this is in 230. When the 2015 referendum fell, the Law on Partnerships was introduced immediately the next day, whereas it states that they cannot adopt children together, in Article 2, paragraph 3, the partners of the Partnership cannot adopt children together, but can each adopt them for themselves or then come together. And here, if you look at it, paragraph 230 allows that. So you go about things or two marriages and you fix them. Today, I was expecting more from the Minister, and I will say a calm performance, given that he knows that the family code will be adopted, that this majority is decided, but this attack by the Minister has shown that it is necessary in any way and that he is afraid of the referendum. But, I say, I haven't heard any threats to this referendum today, we know what the procedure is. Thus, in Article 2 – because I think we are only talking about Article 2, although everyone has already discussed everything – in fact, it is only our proposal that the definition of a family should be broken down into single parents, extended, temporary, foster families and so on, which I think is not wrong to write more transparently; to know exactly what is what. As for the other matters, you saw for yourself how many amendments were on the committee, how many were rejected, some of ours were accepted. However, this family code is also complementary to the Law on Partnerships, and I cannot support it from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u103	Mr. Joseph Horvath, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, when we talk about the family code when we talk about family, our feelings are also present in the debates, especially when we are talking specifically about Article 2 when it comes to the definition of family. It is perfectly normal for many researchers to ask people, young, old; interestingly, even young people say that the highest value in their lives is the family. This must also be understood by the legislator when he adopts legislation to take the family as the highest value. Whether we've done this job well or not, the electorate will be on trial. They've already done it twice. And Nova Slovenije is not the one who would ever threaten with a referendum. No, no, no. Here's the opportunity where we can probably have it with our right hand, to say something about how we imagine our family and why our family is our greatest value. With regard to the conduct of today's session; Mr German, Vice-President, is still still the best. Today, we have also heard a lot of vile readings here, especially on the right side of this national assembly, and I have not responded because I am used to it. It's not good, you know, it's not good for you to get used to bad things. From high school sociology, I remember that the family is the basic cell of society — probably today — of Slovenian society, if you will, of humanity. It's true that it's not the same thing I'm going to say right now, but if it's that the family is the base cell, or if the definition of the base cell needs to be changed. As I say, someone will replicate or challenge me if I now draw a parallel to the base structure or the base cell of the substance. Does anyone remember simply changing the definition of an atom that is the basic building blocks of matter? It consists of an atomic core, protons, neutrons, and a cloud of electrons. Pika. It's not the same thing, yes, once again, but here, when it comes to the base cell, the building block of human society, this definition can't always change somehow when it comes and it gets political power of any kind, any political option. We are united here at least on a verbal level, I hope that when we talk about family, we put the child at the forefront. Of course we are, New Slovenia, too. By saying that we are putting the child at the forefront, we are talking primarily about responsibility; accountability to children. If we look at chronology – yes, I will go back to the days of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia – then in the Official Journal 15-644 in 1976 the Marriage and Family Relations Act defines the family, I quote: “The family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special social protection for the benefit of children.” The right second paragraph. This then continues also in the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the officially consolidated text, on 21 May 2004, when the President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor, signed this officially consolidated text. And in Article 2 of the above-mentioned Law on Marriage and Family Relations, in fact, spells out the word “social” protection. So again we had: “The family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of children.” And we say that with our amendment, today's, on the family code, this definition of family would remain the same. Why? I repeat, because it is not good to change the definition of the basic building blocks of human society. And, yes, children have the right to grow up in a family of fathers and mothers. We know that they write scientists and sociologists, anthropologists and so on that the family is in crisis today. Did we ask ourselves why? I guess we did. There are many more answers. Why the family is in crisis — probably because of the revolution of customs and morals within which people decide to marry. Someone earlier said that the family where the parents have a marriage relationship is better than the one where it is an extramarital community. I'm not the one to judge this, but I'm sure the legislator must somehow aspire to the ideal of the family. There are no two equal families in all mankind, no two equal. But we have to pursue the ideal. Among other things, I am an authorized person to make a marriage and there is a form, sometimes you make a speech yourself, and that form, that speech, prepared in advance, is actually very good. For example, since he alerts the fiancée — the one who makes the marriage relationship — to warn them that they are accepting an obligation to each other and to their children today. I like that very much. As I have already said, this is also our view, New Slovenia, of family and children. It's a responsibility, it's a commitment to children. Of course, I also like the fact that you always talk your fiancé into bringing them together, the deepest feeling, that's love, the deepest feeling. The Minister has already quoted the Slovenian Constitution, we all know Article 53, paragraph three: “The State protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood of children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection.” This third paragraph — I am not a constitutional lawyer and never will — I can explain to myself that in this third paragraph of Article 53, the definition of a family — the state protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children — I can explain, I have the right. I would like to conclude my debate with the support of the amendment of New Slovenia. I think that this definition, in fact, this old one – what is old – is not necessarily bad, rather the opposite – that this definition should remain, I quoted the 1976 Official Gazette and 2004, as saying. Why this definition is not good today, it is likely that no one will convince me, but above all, I would like the family to become and remain a place of love. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u105	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to all of you who are here! I thought I would discuss the following article, namely the amendments to Article 3. Only because I see that the debate on the amendments to Article 2 defining the definition of a family is still ongoing will I say my opinion on this. Even as a sociologist, I recall what Mr Joseph Horvat, my predecessor, had warned me about how we defined the family at the time. Regardless of how we defined it at the time, I thought it was perfectly fine at the time, and I would still feel fine if the social situation did not change. All of us may well recall some children who lived in adopted families who lived with their foster parents and who always considered the family they lived in, that is, their foster parents, to be their family. It is also true that, as is now the case and is the subject of this code, that we will be able not to adopt children, but to take over parental rights, as well as those children who will live in such families, where it will be determined that these people who are carriers of the family, that is, old parents or relatives, of parental rights, have such relations and are considered to be family. Therefore, I do not think that these proposals, which have been made to this Article 2 by the SDS and NSI Group, seem more appropriate to me and to the situations in which we are now living in this society, which are governed by this Code, the provisions of Article 2 of the law, which the Minister has read well. I fully agree with them — paragraphs 1 and 2. In particular, with the second paragraph, “for the benefit of children the family enjoys special protection of the state”. This seems very important to me that it is also written in that the state protects the family. Since I am speaking, I would like to say, if I may, my views on the amendments to Article 3 of the law tabled by the SDS and to the two amendments of the United Left. The SDS makes an amendment to the first paragraph of this article, in which the law now states: “The marriage is a living community of men and women.” Just as someone has warned me before, I think my colleague Sasha, it's just a purely vocabulary matter and not adding one husband and one wife to it, as if we were trying to prevent some bigamy somehow. But this, as it is now written, is purely linguistically correct. A man and a woman — one. Perhaps this second paragraph, which says that “the memory of marriage is in the design of a family”. I have also heard this comment from the United Left, and the importance of marriage is in the founding of the family. I don't know, maybe it's just a marriage for love, or maybe it's a benefit, I don't know. We are different people and life situations are different, so I don't mind if this article stays within the law, as it is written, “the memory of marriage is in the family’s power”. I also think that the United Left's comment and, as it is said, I do not support any of these amendments of these two opposition parties, because I think this solution, which is now in the third section of the law, is completely acceptable and best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u107	Mr. Franz Jursha, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u108	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues as well as representatives of the Ministry! Given that we have heard more or less of the general debate in this amendment to Article 2 at the outset, I will also discuss it properly. In view of the fact that I have been sitting in these benches for some time now, I must say that I remember some of the thorough debates in the past; we have not come to the debates that have been going on for an extremely long time and some of the certain goals that we have or have set ourselves. In the beginning, I must say that my view of the family code has been somewhat conservative, and I have made this decision in the past. With the passing of time, and the passing of time, one can begin to think a little bit more about democracy or perhaps more – at this point, I cannot find the right word to express myself. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations was passed in the past, at least some of you mentioned the years, probably around 1976. In 2011 we adopted the family code. I remember well that this code fell at the referendum on 25 March. I must also say that at that time we have noted some of the shortcomings of that proposal, but the President of the Government, if I recall his expression today, we will “fight as the left” but in the end we have seen that the result was just that and that the matter has been rejected. A critical point – the question of equalising the rights of same-sex couples with heterosexual couples, that was the biggest problem. The definition of the family was also a problem for the public. The National Assembly is in 2014, perhaps better said 2015, because we discussed this sometime in March, if I recall correctly, the proposal was put forward by the United Left. At that time, I clearly, unequivocally drew attention to a matter that was enshrined in a coalition agreement or coalition agreement. But what happened? Interesting. I am very sorry that the Minister is not here, she will probably be informed of my view that at that time the Minister has entered the first fighting line and advocated the proposal of the United Left, which was a proposal in one article of such an important law. And we have clearly written in the coalition treaty what we will do in this area. And that was my criticism back then to the minister. You see the fraction, today that you have prepared, the ministry, a new proposal, and the United Left does not support the proposal that you have prepared, which would be acceptable for the majority, more or less for the majority sitting here, but also for the people in Slovenia. In view of the fact that I would not just look into the past, I will also say something about this proposal, and in particular about the points that have convinced me that I will also accept this proposal. This is the transfer of decision-making powers from social work centres to the courts, then extended parental care and the pre-exposed will of parents, how to act in case of accidental death, and who will take care of their children. The whole code is built on the principle of protecting the benefit of children. Undoubtedly, we have to admit that. As I mentioned earlier, the transfer of decision-making powers from social work centres to the courts. So far, social work centres have actually had a double function; that is, on the one hand, the role of advice and, on the other hand, the decision-making function. I think it is good that this matter has been regulated as proposed in this proposal, which we are currently considering. The courts shall take full decisions in all segments. That is also true, as social workers must actually be very close to people. I also advocate this thesis in the event that we are discussing the reorganisation of social work centres, but today I will not speak specifically about this issue, because it might also be critical. The next issue is extended parental care. In this matter, I must stress in particular that the solution envisaged is for the most extreme cases where the child is no longer a living parent. The circle of relatives, especially old parents, then brothers and sisters, aunts and uncles, cousins and cousins, is much more appropriate than adoption – I fully agree with that and I think it is the same. Now, whether adoption of a child from your child — the question of what the child loses in this case or what obligation is then imposed upon him when the aged parents need the help of their child. In this case, we're transferring matters to our grandchildren. This definition, as I said before, I like it, and I think it's the right solution. One more thing about the parental will expressed in advance. It is an opportunity for parents to make a statement about their will, to whom this care for a child, if the worst happens, that says that parents die. I do not want to particularly touch on the question that has been raised with the Korean boys, because it is too open a wound and I do not want to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we submitted several amendments to this family code at a committee meeting when it was under consideration. Well, for this meeting, we have kept the plenary reading of the family code, but we still have three amendments. The first amendment touches on issues of same-sex, definition of family and so on. In short, we propose that what should have been done in Slovenian society should have been deleted in the first paragraph of Article 3 and replaced by the words “two persons”. This reintroduces equality between diversified and same-sex couples; the equality that the ministry has at least temporarily forgotten in the drafting of the family code, because it has politically capitulated before the pressures of the church's right. In the United Left, however, we feel that such pressure does not appear to be eliminated. Furthermore, in Article 3, we also propose the deletion of the third paragraph, namely the importance of the marriage. Look, what marriage means to one person and to another person, and to one couple, after all, it's a matter of these two people to make a difference, not a matter of law, that it prescribes that marriage is fulfilled only if they have children. It's a bad backstabbing attitude and an approach to marriage, and it's not. There are things in which the state has nothing to do with people or two individuals, what they are in a marriage relationship and what they are not. And that's it. Bye! Maybe you don't want to have a baby. Maybe they can't have it because they're afraid, they're in a bad social situation. But they're not a marriage? I mean, that's not working. This is another political capitulation of the government before the conservative right and it must fly out of this law. Finally, we propose another amendment, Article 85, deletion of the pre-nuptial contract. This prenuptial contract is controversial because, for example, at the time of divorce, one of the partners may lose his property. Yes, it is true that formally two individuals conclude that they are equal in their partnership and all that, but the poop is hiding in real inequality. We are the atomic equal individuals of modern society, but there are very big differences between us, real ones, even those that should not be, property differences, differences in social power. The instrument of the pre-nuptial contract will transfer these social inequalities, project, if you want, even within the family relationship. I'm not saying that this is necessarily going to happen, but I'm saying that with prenuptial contracts, we're opening the door. That we introduce distinctions between spouses instead of equality, knowing that our society is still deeply patriarchal and that there is usually a weaker woman in marriage. It's also worth a fortune. We know that there are still wage differences between men and women or again exist because the emancipation of women was one of the gains that the secession of Slovenia from Yugoslavia has shot down and gone back 25 years. And with the Institute of the Pre-Marriage Treaty, this inequality will begin to spill within the marriage union, which goes to the diametric opposite of the stated objective of this law, which they like to stress at the Ministry. In addition to these three amendments, I would like to point out another problem of this law, which we wanted to regulate on the Committee with the amendment, namely the obligation to support parents by their children of full age. This moral duty for children to take care of their parents is all good and good, but we cannot have a social policy based on it. And then it happens, as it is now, when social work centres, some, after the ministry's befel and interpretation of the legislation to pensioners who would otherwise be entitled to a protective allowance, do not pay it if your children take care of you. Is it not just solidarity, social security, and so on — are these not the reasons why we pay taxes? They did not possess TES-6 or the promising corruption catastrophe of track 2 reasons why people in this country or in any country, after all, pay taxes. No, we pay taxes to collect funds into the common treasury and then to deal with them as a community, but in this bag, they obviously squander as much basic things as social security, and they fall on the children of some poor parents to take care of these parents, instead of redistributive mechanisms of the country. Solidarity between generations can be achieved in many ways and in modern society this is done through deferred exchange, if you want, within the framework of a social state. When the taxes and contributions of the entire generation are devoted to the elderly, the disabled and so on and they are carried down. Well, here we would have had the opportunity to correct this socially unjust measure in this law, but unfortunately the amendment on the committee fell and did not receive support.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u111	Mrs. Janja Servant, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much. At the beginning of the debate, I am going to be a little hasty about this definition of family, which is because I think we need to agree first on what law is, what marriage matter is. The law is something alive, something that needs to respond to the actual situation and change the definition of family I also agree, this definition, which is written in the law, I speak to myself, does not mean anything to me. [[…]] For my terms, a family is someone who feels like a family on his own, and let them be two of the same sex, two of the different sexes, two of the children, two of the children without children – it doesn't matter. But the marriage is 40 years old, we have heard, and colleagues from the other side of the hall agree that the situation has changed and that, for a long time, the marriage material needs to change and respond to all of this. I don't think it makes any sense to be so in-depth about what's going to be written in there. There are some suggestions that all the forms of community that we will now name as family should be explicitly listed, and said colleague Godec that exactly what is what. That statement, I'm sorry, it touched me. No, you don't know what's what; you know who's who. We're talking to someone, not what. I really need to respond in this sense, so that we can deal with this more, that we will try harder to cover all the details, that the more we will happen without them. Here I must agree with what colleague Mirjam may have pointed out in the position of the Group of Members. For my understanding, two without children are a family, if that's how they feel. I don't want us to deal with this definition so much, but we're still neglecting someone, and we're still letting someone go. Therefore, if it were in my opinion, this definition would not exist at all and it would be as I said; anyone who feels that there is some emotional attachment, some connection, some mutual love, responsibility, and so on – these two are either my family or they are not, if they do not want it. I also have to agree with what has already been exposed today, the importance of marriage is in the design of a family. Consider one example: Two people decide to get married and agree in advance that they do not want to have children. Should these two then not enter into a marriage? I think we're getting involved here, that's what I'm saying, that we're getting very involved here, that there's not many different situations here that we're never going to be able to cover in these kind of definitions. [[…]] Nevertheless, I think the solution that we have on the table, which today was the obvious, is how long the Minister has not come with the law. Yeah, we know why not. We're still seeing why not today. When we had hoped that maybe all those eyewitnesses four years ago were real and that once this was over, and that when we had some solution on the table that could be acceptable to everyone, O.K. would not be able to make those comments, and you would leave the matter alone, and you would let it through — and never will be! 40 years old is marriage, and I have a feeling that whatever we bring to the table will not be right and that we can talk for the next 200 years, but we will not be able to save this until you allow this to be accepted. And yes, the feeling of the Lord is that true colleague Kordish was talking about some dark forces that appeared on the Committee on Labour and the Family and threats to the referendum, which the colleague then denied, but there is nothing to deny. [[…]] It's all on the magnetogram. It really is that feeling of these dark forces. It's true. That's how I felt. And I have already said on the Committee that I was very pleased with the fact that I have been following this public debate, how this law has been written, I have been monitoring all the events, all the councils that have been on this subject and I have also attended them, and all of them have been very positive, and the ministry has also been very responsive to all the comments made during this public debate, and the public debate, hand to heart, has not only been held for three months when the law was in public hearing, but it has actually taken place since 2011 and since then. I actually expected this to be it. What we have on the table, and now no one can comment. Not like you have to invite people back to the streets, to the referendum, and I don't know where else. Now it actually turns out that what we've always suspected was that four years before the referendum some reservations had been raised and it only referred to these reservations and it was exposed all the time if it hadn't been, and then it would have supported me. Yeah, of course, that turned out not to be true. The matter that we have on the table is in fact what has already been said today, focused on the child; on the protection of the child, on his protection as the weakest article in all these relationships. And let us accept this for the children because they need it. After 40 years, they deserve it! I have already listed on the committee, of course, not now, but actually this text is a very big step forward for children, just to improve their protection, even at the end of the way to improve the protection of all others affected by this law; it promotes procedures, ensures greater transparency and so on. But the focus is on the baby, and it has to be! I really think that now I mean, excuse me, the position of the SDS Group – what was that? [[…]] I'm really surprised. You did not participate in the committee at all, we accepted all those amendments that we really thought were meaningful, including yours, even from New Slovenia, and now come up with such a position and talk again about the theory of sex, and about the financing of some organisations, and about the fact that now it is possible to adopt again in the same-sex community I mean – hello? [[…]] Where are we again? The committee has already said what was most problematic: adoption of grandchildren by old parents – a much better solution, which is now in this text, is significantly better. Why? Because all those concerns, all those minuses that were exposed when the grandchildren were adopted, all of that now neutralizes and they are gone and captures only those positive aspects. And I really don't know what's even better than what's in here right now, this parental care distribution is really, really parenting and it's as close to adoption as possible. At the same time, it follows all those positive aspects, such as the legacy of maintaining a relative relationship, and so on, all those positive ones, which are, and for which we have already acknowledged, when we talked about the possibility of adoption by old parents, that they are okay. I really think that what you are doing now is re-intentional deception, deliberate lies that you are wasting and – yes, also by a member of the SDS, colleague Mahnič has already been exposed to the possibility of a referendum on the committee, so denying it makes no sense because it is recorded. I think that this is really to the detriment of not only the children who need this law, but also to the detriment of this country and citizens and citizens, that they are so deceived that they are so lying and that some fears are spreading again and some quails or cowardly eggs are pushing — whatever they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u113	It's a replica. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I apologize for earlier raising my voice, although this sometimes happens, because when someone tries to get me into a situation where I lie, it seems to me that this is extremely unacceptable and distasteful, at least by the Ministry or the Minister. Now I've listened to this debate, Mrs. Servant. I must say that he is trying again, without any argument, to say that what we wrote in the position of the Group of Members is not true. Without any argument, she was here in general, and I listened to her, and in the end, I understood absolutely nothing she said. Maybe because just like some people think that in the Slovenian Democratic Party and all those who aren't among those first-callers, we just don't know what this is or what we don't understand. Or they are so ignorant that they underestimate us, those who still understand what it is. I think it's different. And respectable! Madam Servant, please listen once again to what I have said in my position because you have challenged me. It's right to tell you, because it's a replica, and it's right, I'm replicating it to you because you were speaking inaccuracies because you were deceiving yourself and saying what you absolutely did not. In the position of the Group of Members, I have stated all things which are correct. Now I will read to you that you will hear again, and then I expect you to come up with arguments and each of these things that I have said in my delegation's position, with arguments, not many words without arguments. That doesn't count, because I won't allow it! See, we wrote the following: “The Family Code will still allow children to be able to choose sex and sexual orientation in the framework of compulsory education” – we told the children – “to enforce the theory of sex or the theory that sex and sexual orientation can be chosen by them.” I hope you've read the sentence that says here. In this regard, we have also proposed an amendment prohibiting any influence on children's personal circumstances without the consent of parents in the school system. So, we have proposed amendments, accept the amendment, and there will be no doubt and you will not say that we are against it. Secondly: “The Family Code will allow the financing of those individuals and organisations in the field of family policy who do not respect the fatherhood and motherhood which are specially protected by the Constitution in Article 53.” Look how long we've been explaining this to you! I don't know, but you only see your point of view, your point of view, and you don't understand ours, do you? Thirdly, what we wrote: "The Family Code clearly defines the possibility of adoption of children in the same sex by allowing two-stage adoption of children in the same sex community [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u115	Mr. Pojbich, your time is up. Then I suggest I start another round.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u116	Mr President, I agree with you. I'll sign up for the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u117	Mrs. Janja Sluga, for you too, replicas to the replica, I can't give. Procedural? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have already warned Mr Pojbič yourself, but this actual implementation was not a replica of what I said and that he was now re-reading the position of the Group. That's not a replica at all. I suggest you read the Rules of Procedure again. But I'm glad that you've told me at one of the previous meetings that I'm going to say very little, and what I'm going to say is that today you find that I've said a lot of things because you said a lot of words and no arguments. So deny yourself and ask you nicely, let me listen a little bit more carefully, then argue what you are responding to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u119	As a procedural proposal, I understand that both of you will apply for the next round. Okay? Okay. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Otherwise I wanted to discuss something else, but I can see that someone is trying to bring that old mantra back on the theory of sex and here to explain in a fat and wide way how dangerous this is, because some will be under this influence, especially the children we like to talk about. It's a sex theory. In fact, it is a concept where we know exactly what it means to be literally fictional, and in reality it has been brought through the back door only for one very activism purpose; this is how to show all feminist and gay communities how they really want to exercise their interest after some particular education and transformation of the so-called sex theory. But in reality, it is not a scientific or professional expression, but it is literally for a coin that has only one goal – how to disqualify someone in advance just because he does not really have the right arguments. So much for what my predecessor said. However, since we are discussing the family code, I think it is very important to mention the following in particular. On the committee, Mrs Godec said that we should not talk here about the number of amendments and who thinks. I do not know what Parliament is but an exchange of views, views and, last but not least, polarisation in the debates. That's why I'm going to say the following in the beginning. This law has experienced 62 amendments. Once again, there were the Committee's proposals, the parent body that the Committee had been considering. Which, of course, means that a serious discussion has been held with a relatively long introduction to the various stakeholders, both lazily and professionally, who have expressed their views and opinions. And here's the thing. I always ask myself when I discuss this family code, for whom this law was written. This law was not written for Christians, not for Muslims, not for atheists, not for no one, but for all citizens and citizens, or for those living in the Republic of Slovenia, who adhere to or must respect our legal order. I am sure that if we were a highly developed society, including culturally and in the sense that we would not have any prejudices and some conversions, in fact, the family code itself, except when it comes to disputes and not least the protection of individual family members, in the first place of course the child, what is also the purpose and purpose of the family code – we would not really need it. And unfortunately, we need him. I liked the statement – I will use it – Andreje Črnak Meglič, when she discussed it on the committee and she said the following thing, she said, following the memory: The Family Code or the Marriage and Family Relations Act, which was valid for 40 years, made a significant move and the step was made especially for those times, that we had abolished the word 'ponkrt'. Today we are not talking about the bastards, because we have survived this, and I hope to say that everyone in this room and even in our society has no further thought about this concept. But we have some other problems and problems in dealing with what the family is and how it needs to be designed, and we would very much like to plan and intervene in how people will live, by some standards, by some samples, some call it, by some cultural practices. I'll give you one case, and you'll see where we'll still get involved, even when the family code is adopted. The husband and wife will decide to make a marriage with the desire to have a bunch of children. And they're gonna start a family. 10, 15, 20 years later, one of the partners will discover that the prisoner is in his own body and will change the sex. Then what's it gonna be? On behalf of the people, will we annul such a marriage or such a marriage? Will we make a kind of precedent? I don't think that's going to happen at all, but look, this is a practical example in the theoretical thinking of what to do in such a case. Why is it important to design a definition of a family? I hope that the definition of a family must be so broad that everyone can design his way of life within this family; especially if we believe all those who speak in the name of love and in the name of coexistence, and not least the basic mission that I will say is that man has on this earth, and that is reproduction. It's its own existence. But we cannot impose this on everyone and command it. It just doesn't work. I believe that man's freedom is so that he makes his life his own measure, according to his own skin, which he wears. I don't wear his skin, and I can't control and organize his skin. It is appropriate that this family code is important to regulate at least those cases and those rules of the game, so that when a dispute arises — because when two people report or enter into a marriage relationship, they probably do not go into a marriage relationship in order to divorce in three months, but go to form a family and so on. True, when two men enter into a marriage, they hope to have a family. Whether you will have it or not, I don't think we know it, and that's why we need to make such a place, such a mile that they can live in any case equally. Today to command various definitions and so on, we are simply prisoners and those who say there is no compromise, of course. The compromise is very great and it's a family code. Compromise of possible. This compromise has also been proven several times by this – I will not forget the words of Matthew Tonin, who said to me years ago: Throw them out of the family code of same-sex partners, arrange them in another marriage and name this marriage differently and I am right behind, because everything else is more than 90 percent in this family code ok. Some today appear and say that this law is even prescribed or destructive or horrifying and that I know what else. It's not like that. It's just not like that. And you have to admit that. Regrettably, the family code is one of those family or material that is still a good marketable political commodity that some use for various purposes, especially what has been said today — no one has said in this room today that they will go to the referendum. We cannot say that, but when I was on the committee of the parent body, those words were expressed by representatives of the social movements or representatives of the civil sphere, that this is one of the reasons that will appear sooner or later if it is not as they have commanded and as they think it is only right and saving. That's why I think it's important to keep that in mind. I'm sure love is impossible to legalize. You can't. It simply cannot be that someone wants to live and form a marriage and then build all the elements of the family, one or the other, on love, but we can only wish for it. But when this love is gone, we still need the family marriage because someone is in serious danger — and that is what some say and especially stress that it is for children — and, of course, not least, those who are still with this family. I am sure that the law will bring a lot of good things, which has already been said more or less, regulates a huge number of issues, which, if we had this family code in 2011, probably some certain problems would not have been or would not have happened, and I hope that this intelligence will meet us and that we will give this family code the opportunity to find its way, and not least show where it is still worth upgrading and improving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u121	Mrs. Ludmila Novak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the president, from the Ministry, welcome! I don't want to argue with my colleagues, because obviously each one of us has his own family experience, and I have every right to do that. Our amendment, which wants the definition of a family to remain the same as it was before – in particular, we would like to stress that it is important for the family to enjoy special protection. And if we start listing family types, like in the SDS amendment, we can stop letting someone go, and it's always happening to us when we welcome someone to forget someone, we can't define something and so on, so we suggest that the simple definition of family remains. I am pleased that the Minister has taken into account, the Ministry, including some of our proposals that we have previously tabled, our amendment has also been adopted. Of course, matter is difficult, difficult, and in such a family code it is simply difficult to define all our life relationships. However, I wish that in our family debates, the family issue would be more positive, because the family is still the first value of most people, as well as most young people. Sadly, we find that youth unemployment, housing problems, and the like make it difficult for them to create a family. So how are we going to take positive measures for a better family policy so that we know how to separate family policy from social policy so that we can set up such a family policy that motivates young people to set up their families and so on? We know that in Slovenia there is a shortage of births, that we have poor demographics, that we will all know this in pensions, not least, in the existence of a nation and more. So I want more positive discussions, because we often talk about it or it seems like the family is something very severe and difficult and the problems themselves and the courts and so on. I especially view my family as something very beautiful, like the community of people who like each other, where relationships can be formed that are encouraging to children – of course I know that it is not always so, in all cases, that we also need solutions for these cases. After all, though, the family is something beautiful, something inspiring, something encouraging, and some say that more than in the society of orderly families, this society can, of course, be better because it has fewer problems to solve afterwards. And no one, no political party, no existing or emerging, can claim a family as something solely within its jurisdiction. Family may not be an ideological theme either, but family is something natural, something primal, beautiful, where we can live the most encouraging, loving relationships and where we grow up the easiest. As I said, I know that all families are not so many problems, but we must certainly strive to do so. I am pleased that our proposal to give more attention to family life in preparation for marriage has somehow been taken into account. I am also the marrying officer myself, and I often wonder how these young, well, some even older or middle-aged people, who are ready for marriage, are ready for family life. Are we really doing enough for this? I am convinced that we should do too little to do more so that there may be fewer problems. We all know that we have been going to school for many years, so that we can do some work, and we are never prepared enough, except for marriage, family life, which includes a lot of different situations and components. Actually, we're very poorly prepared for that. That is why we have put another amendment, specifically to the status of NGOs in the public interest, so that these NGOs, which do much, have status, are also supported by the State, so that they can also carry out the mission and help to better prepare young people for family and marriage. As far as the courts are concerned. Unfortunately, I also know some negative cases from the present situation, when the court has been for too long, have ruled for several years on which of the parents will be children. So long that the father could get them on his own, and only after the children had grown up did they establish a proper relationship with their mother because the court had made a final decision for too long. So, we can write into the law at what time, at what time, the courts must decide, and I hope that they will actually play their part, and also perform their functions at the time set for it. In fact, even greater problems may arise, and children find themselves in a very difficult situation when divorce occurs. I said I wouldn't argue. However, I am pleased that Comrade Tabakovic has come to apologize to me for accusing New Slovenia of verbal errors in an amendment that we have not tabled from this point of view, so that we can also apologize when we make a mistake that we have not made on purpose. In this spirit, I would also like to see our debate here in Parliament on family, family code; therefore, in order for everyone to make such a law together, a code that would be for the benefit of the family, for the benefit of the children, through which our problems could be better solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Novak. In this spirit, my fellow Members, I invite you to re-apply to the debate. The application shall be made. Check-in is complete. First of all, Mrs. Susana Pretty Šimenka has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I must say that today we are talking about a very sensitive subject, a topic that we have dealt with many times in the National Assembly. However, we have our founder, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides very nicely in Article 53 that the state protects the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creates the necessary conditions for this protection. This is what is crucial, and we must by no means ignore it here in this national assembly. I personally like it very much because there has been so much talk about family definitions, the definition set out in the General Declaration on Human Rights in Article 16 in the third paragraph: “The family is a natural and fundamental cell of society and has the right to social, state protection.” That's what I'd personally pay the most attention to. This is what we should be most defending in this national council. Finally, our future as a nation depends on this base cell, and that is why I think it is so much more important that we put it out. Although Article 2 of this Law is still open, there has been a discussion of the whole law, and there has been something that goes far beyond this area and beyond. Maybe that's why I'll let myself have a little wider discussion. The amendment, ours, wants to give the basic purpose or special attention to the family as a social cell: a family that is a natural cell that comes from a mother, a father and a child. Of course, we didn't want to let anyone go with all the further listing, and I believe we didn't. That is why we have bypassed the term “wider”, but the basic thing is that the family is the fundamental cell that this family code must be talking about. Of course, many other dilemmas have been exposed, both on the committee and here today. And somehow, if what, last but not least, is most feared by all those who went to the 2012 and 2015 referendums and voted against the family code, then I suggest that we accept the amendments that we are proposing here, because simply by these additional amendments, we are really dispeling these doubts. Also on the theory of sex, which has already been exposed today and also on the possibility of adoption in the same-sex partnership community. In the beginning, it was explicitly said, it is not possible, but we have heard it, yes, because it is already possible today, but in principle, to adopt one and then another. And we know what the people's decision was in 2012 at the referendum and why. Of course, it is right that we know that the family code's solution at the time contained many good solutions, and it also has many good solutions, but it is not right that because of a few of the most critical ideological things, the open things, the unclear things are falling. Because I think we need a family code, too. That is why we have proposed, say, the amendment to Article 217 and Article 230. By accepting this amendment, a respected coalition, I believe that it will not be possible to truly adopt into the same-sex partnership. These are the extra security guards, despite some of your assurances. Of course, a lot of things have been said, but now it's a little over, and I'm not going to point that out again. What really matters is that adoption must be a child's right. The right of the child in the sense that he was adopted into the community he acquired at birth and then lost it further for such or other reasons. And as we have provided in the Constitution, motherhood is protected and paternity is protected. This is what we should never forget in this national council. Family, as we understand it: the base cell is still a family made up of the father, mother and children – at least for me, let it be for your traditional family. That's what I'm defending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u125	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. I like that in this second part, the debate was indeed in the sense that we are talking and that some are just not talking, but listening. Now, some answers also in the previous debate; I think the fellow Servant has somehow stated that we have prepared what we have been able to do, what we have been able to do and what we have done. We've also taken some of your amendments into account. Of course, there can be a simple answer here; you can only do so. Now, if you can't do it any more, then don't worry and don't expose yourself or trouble yourself with the referendums. Here I constantly listened to who first mentioned the possibility of a referendum and whether this option was even mentioned. There is no point in this debate. This is a decision made by citizens and citizens. It's the will of the people. If you're sure you've done the best you can, then the people will probably believe it. But if the solutions aren't what they are, I don't know, maybe they'll say, let's try it. But the fact is, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are drawing attention to those parts that are not yet resolved in this law and in our opinion should be. And in one debate of the Slovenian Democratic Party, even in the position of counterpart Pojbič, no, it was not said that the proposal was completely null and void. Last but not least, as has already been mentioned, the proposal on which the will of the people was publicly expressed has not been completely in vain, but has had a problem in some key matters. Where am I gonna stop? I will absolutely stop at the adoption of my old parents. It's not like that. This is not the case in this bill, literally in this sense. There is an option, it is a form – but it is not. And it will be difficult to tell me that hypothetically now it is not possible for two old parents to have the possibility of adopting a completely foreign child, but they cannot have their own because the law determines how this works. Earlier, it was also clear, individual cases, how what would happen if two spouses and one, I don't know, changed the sex – I think colleague Jani Möderndorfer discussed this. Of course, we have different cases, but the Constitution clearly speaks of who should be protected. I don't see any need to point out individual cases here. But I see a bigger problem that this country or this government is not protecting the family, those basic cells. He's not protecting her. Because if you did, then the Koroan boys couldn't have happened. Come in. It was also said that the law of love was impossible. That's right. But they are probably of some value in society, but they are in some form and even all kinds of love cannot be accepted, because otherwise we will really believe what was happening in the Bulmastif affair – because they are also types of love, you will say. Look, it's all going its own way. A hundred years ago, something was said, and a hundred years from now it would be said otherwise. The fact is, in society, every kind of love is not acceptable. And it's not. And that's how it is. This still does not mean that we have different individuals or ways of life that are more or less acceptable. Some are more widespread, others are slightly less. But let's go back to the family, to the base cell of the family. Here we have a problem, not in individual matters, when there are some really forms that may not have been what they appear to be at first, and only two partners through life change anyway. It's the family we have to protect. But we're not doing this today. Today we are looking for different forms of how to evaluate all of this. The basic cell of society is that humanity survives. The fact is, you are naturally or in any way limited and are not in any other form. Even science and all the forms of certain things cannot change. That's how it is. It's some kind of natural law. And now looking for ways to make it possible for someone else, and on the other hand, not to worry about family, but it's a problem for me. The problem is that today, when we talk about economic growth, when we heard yesterday what social work centres and the ministry are preparing, we get messages on the networks, personal messages where citizens and citizens ask for money, not for money, but for clothes for their children. They're literally begging. And when a person actually doesn't have time to settle this in a few days, you get the question of whether or not we can count on you. That's a problem we should be talking about. Individual cases from social work centres will now be transferred to the courts. There's some hands. I don't understand that! We are constantly engaged in the way the courts are overloaded, we have waiting periods, waiting types literally in the courts. Even when it comes to some form of family relations, divorces, including family matters, after six months of divorce proceedings, and then for the distribution of property! Years and years. Single mothers must leave their possessions because they are not saved and do not hope to stay in their own homes or apartments. And that's what goes on in the courts of years and years. Then people take loans to pay taxes and so on. Now you think by putting something in court with the centres, we'll solve things faster. Yes, we won't! We won't, because things aren't going as well as they should. Because if it were, then stories like those in Slovenia were with the cases of the Korean boys and so on, they wouldn't have happened. This is an example — I hope that it is a unique one — that something like this should never happen again. Yes, the fact is that the process of this family code has been going on for years and years and at the final stage we must have a proposal on the table, which is at least partially the same as that of all of us agreeing with it. The matter is taking too long, under the same direction of the Ministry; it is said that it has not changed that there could have been a reason for the need for a new time after the new government. There are solutions that are fine, but there are solutions that are not arranged and are not good. And again, we are very concerned with that minority problem, which in the end looks like it dominates the whole country, and very little with that basic problem of the Slovenian family. Slovenian families. And it is not true that there is no need for any religious affiliation involved here, which formerly Member Möderndorfer wanted to do in some way, we have this completely separate. It doesn't matter who's got any religion at all. It is important that the State protects the family, on the other hand, as defined by both the Constitution and the previously cited Convention. But we keep looking for holes, ways to play this a little bit; what to do, how to save things, so that things come back inside. [[…]] Of course, what separates Slovenian space at some point, otherwise there would be no referendums, otherwise it would not be people's decisions, but it would have to be accepted by the people's decision. They just told us what kind of family they wanted to support, in the first place, to help her. This does not mean that there are other forms or that there may be none. The one who wants to talk about it in this way is really mean. [[…]] Of course there are other forms, of course there are other ways, but the fact is that the primary cell is a family and this needs to be maintained and this needs to be respected and this must also be advocated in a way that the family will have every opportunity to develop normally, even in the good of future generations. Now I'm just going to point out one more time at the end: you said you were just following what you could. That's not true! You respected what you wanted. But on the other hand, don't worry about what the people will say. Stand behind yours, as you have already done, as have several referendums already been in this mandate. But look, it's just that. Although you have authority, you have a majority in the National Assembly, you can accept a literal cat in a jacket or an empty paper, and you will write a law, and you will accept it because you have a majority, you can do whatever you want, but not be afraid of the will of people. Therefore, the discussions on whether it could be a referendum, whether it would be a referendum, make no sense. This too — the fellow Servant is not in there now. Look at the strangeness of her debate: “You did not discuss the committee at all, but in the SDS Group.” Then, in the following sentence, he said: "Mr. Jean-Mahnič said on the board that there would be a referendum." Yeah, what if we didn't discuss it? Now, let us make a deal! — Matthew 24: 45 - 47. Let's be consistent! Just that, let's be consistent. We may disagree in our opinions, we have different views on things, some of them are primarily important, how we can adopt into the same-sex family, and for me it is primarily how old parents can adopt their own grandchildren. It's just that everyone has some values and perspectives on these things, but that's why you don't have to use low blows. I don't know, we've even heard about fascism before and so on. I don't understand it at all. We are talking about the definition of family and the view of one and the other parties of what seems most important to us at a given time and how to resolve that no one in society will be confronted – and I say that it is not – that we will support what is our fundamental value, what the Constitution requires of us and what international acts require of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, you have the floor, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u128	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I have already announced in one way or another that I will repeat the reasons and arguments why we in the Slovenian Democratic Party have made it very clear in our position that we will not support this family code on the one hand; on the other hand, why we proposed amendments. As the debate on the amendments is currently under way, among other things, since there has been a tremendous deal in these debates that a better code cannot be prepared. I think there's got to be something wrong with the guy who said that. There's nothing in the world you can't do better. It doesn't exist. The one who thinks that way, the question is whether he is the right person for the National Assembly or not. I don't think it's from any parliamentary group, not the SDS, not New Slovenia, not the SMC, not the SD, not anyone who could say that we can make a law so that it can't be better prepared. It's an unacceptable diction for me that can't stand any real judgment. Then it is logical that such a debate will come in the National Assembly, that a number of things are said when they are not. Because someone in this way provokes and wants to spend some time in every way, they like their electoral base and so on. But this is not a fundamental and crucial question when we are talking about such an important document that is before us today, and this is a family code because citizens and citizens have already rejected it twice at the referendum. And this is what my colleague Anja was talking about: I don't know how many Members and Members today who discussed this subject were talking about the referendum. We who have discussed here, neither in my position nor anywhere has the referendum been mentioned – but, where is the problem? If you've prepared a code, you're going to get it through, like you imagined, and when you know in advance that certain things are the same as you were before, just a little bit different, a little differently reversed sentence, but the goals are the same. You're not going to outsmart the Slovenian people like that! You won't and you won't! And I am sure that this family code will have such a problem in its articles as long as there will be a group of people at the Ministry of Labour, a family that doesn't understand or want to understand what family really means and everything that goes with it. And here's the problem. It seems to me that the family code should be the first, key and most important right of the child. Today I am also listening to a colleague from the United Left, how problematic it is now; this code does not follow the LGTB and so on, so it helps them to solve so I don't know what he actually meant by it or I can't explain myself how this story was involved in this family code because I don't see it anywhere because it doesn't belong to this content. [[…]] It does not belong to this content of this law. Thank God there's nothing written about it in the code. But this debate, this debate, it bothers me. This debate bothers me! Look, ladies and gentlemen! Even coalition partners, I am sure that if everything was just as it was said, if everything was so in vain prepared to be done by most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, then it would not be on the committee itself when the debate was held – where unfortunately I was not sick – those who came to say – of these civil initiatives and also of that initiative led by Primc, who have, I am sure, a lot of knowledge and good solutions – were available for discussion only 10 minutes. A code that weighs more than 300 articles that you see here. That's the story. And those who advocate the interests of children, parents and so on, get 10 minutes of opportunity to give their opinion on the Committee on Labour. Is that normal? Then tell me if one of you is hiding something! Because otherwise there would be no problem if it were fair, if it was an open game, come on, I would say, look, ladies and gentlemen, there is no problem. Give your opinion, we'll listen to you, but maybe we missed something when we were preparing this family code. But if you don't even give these people a chance, of course, they had the opportunity, like Uroš and I talked to them today, when there was a public debate, but that's not enough for me. If they had previously gone to the committee, they were invited there, they have the right, because this National Assembly is not a national assembly of members of the National Assembly of this Republic, but this National Assembly represents the interests of the Slovenian people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not our personal interests. And we don't have that right. We take this right no matter what is written in the Rules of Procedure. If someone comes here who is a citizen and a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who is affected by this problem, it is appropriate to give him the opportunity to express his opinion. We have no right to take that away from them. We don't! Whoever's doing this really doesn't belong in the National Assembly. Unfortunately. It's my opinion that we understand each other. That's my personal opinion. Now look. There was a colleague, so, sir, he's not my colleague, I'm sorry, but I think I said that, but it's nothing wrong, because the gentleman who knows this area is Franz Donko. You probably know him more about social affairs than I do, but he was there at the time, and he said here: “The extreme left would like to continue terrorizing people with the family code.” He said: “At a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, where the Family Code of Anja Kopač Mrak was discussed on 7 March, the family and children's rights were exposed by the SDS and NSIs to the purpose of the family code.” And this is what we are always saying today, why we do not support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. And below: “In the debate, the Slovenian extreme left again showed her true face. We would like to impose a family code that would continue to control the family life of Slovenes and Slovenes. Children are at impact again!« It further states: “The Family Code is directed at children!” And we are always talking today, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have understood that this family code is being prepared to tackle children's rights in the first place. And the kids have to be number one. And I don't care about any LGBT, any of them who are already, well, two athes, two moms and so on! It's out of the question! Children's rights are far ahead of that. Far before all of this. And there's this problem in there. You think we're just gonna miss this story and then I'm gonna tell you again what two points are the key ones that bother us the most, not just us, and all those who don't get the words? It further states: “The new family code is again directed at children and does not comply with constitutional provisions on the fundamental human dignity of every human person. In this light, yesterday's speech by the Minister in Parliament about the child is of the greatest benefit only to the sand in the eyes, as the family code does not recognise the basic and urgent conditions for healthy growth and development, since it does not stipulate that a caring and loving mother and father are the greatest welfare for the child. Anja Kopač Dark does not recognize the loyalty and love between parents as the basis of the relationship between parents in the family." Finally, the last paragraph is that I will not read everything, that "anxious care has also been laid down in Article 19 which speaks of providing funding for monitoring, training and research in the field of family policy, which are the basic tasks of the Ministry of the Family. According to the new proposal of the Family Code, Anja Kopač Mrak would like to place important work and responsibilities of the Ministry of the Family into the hands of selected government organisations, which are close to the elite and the ministry or even operate there, while at the same time drawing tax money at the expense of non-governmental organisations, which Anja Kopač Dark has been heavily financed for their active anti-social activities. Uncontrolled and unjustified family interventions are also at the core of the family code's interests this time. I don't think there's anything important to add here. In conclusion, I'm going to say the following. In the position of the Group of Members, I have made four, five arguments, which stand at 100%, and one among them is, in fact, two: the Family Code clearly sets out the possibility of adopting children of same-sex partners. Pika. And then they try to convince me from the Ministry and even those who advocate this code all the time that it doesn't. But rather, this would go directly, and now it's two-step; the first step, the second step. Today I said how it was meant to be, and you won't convince me. This family code and this story, the definition of this family code, I understand and - for sure! And it is right for the Slovenian public to know that the Slovenian public knows that you have now tried to bypass the Slovenian public and referendum decision at referendums, which in the majority opposed such a family code, where same-sex partnerships could adopt children. And another thing, old parents still won't be able to adopt their grandchildren! This is what colleague Anja used to say; and this is a fact. Then you have a thousand and one reason why it's not so, and why it's not possible, why it's not the best. Why is this some kind of story in between so different that it can't be done? I still believe, and I am still convinced that the father, mother and child are a real family; the family that I think is perfectly natural. You're not going to explain this to the world public that this isn't the case. And so it is. You can't have two homosexuals having a baby. You can't have it, Fertik, for sure! They can't worry about the reproduction of their people. You can't and you can't! This is not normal and is not acceptable for us or for most Slovenian people. It's not acceptable! If this story really goes to a referendum, I am sure that people will decide again the third time. I just hope that before this referendum comes into force, because before this code comes into force, there is still a whole bunch of legislation to be prepared for the elections first. I hope so! And then those who advocate this with all their might, in such a way as to get inside the side door the story of the adoption of children of same-sex partners on the one hand and to prevent old parents from adopting their grandchildren, believe me, you have little chance of sitting in this Parliament in the next term. Small odds. I'm sure it's the right thing to do. Whether we think we are working in the interest of the Slovenian people, the majority, or better not to sit here; and the Slovenian people will decide. This will not be decided by individuals, and two secretaries of state, and one minister, I do not know who at the Ministry of Labour. They will not make any decisions, but in the end always decide the Slovenian people and it is only fair, right and right. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope I do not need to get up ten more times because I have — see how many more minutes I have — 38 minutes. And you'll listen to me to the end if you don't understand what I'm saying. Because no matter what you say, you're not going to convince me that the situation is any different than I did here today and underlined it. Since we also have lawyers, we, too, have an appropriate team of outstanding young, capable people who can read among the lines and who can understand what is written in the family code in two steps. That's what they wrote down and reviewed. I'm not saying anything that doesn't stand in this code like I said. But I will never allow this as a Member here, so that someone around us will bring the Slovenian people and the Slovenian people and their decisions, which have been confirmed twice by a large majority in the referendum. But I can't afford it, and I'll never let it happen. I therefore hope that all of you, including the Slovenian public, can now identify the arguments and reasons why we cannot and will not support such a family code in the Slovenian Democratic Party as proposed. Please don't waste your time trying to convince us of what you're always trying to force into our brains. It's not like that. I just explained why we know it's not like that. And it will not be such a family code of all citizens and citizens, because you put in two things at the side door that I was talking about, and that is that it is possible for same-sex partner communities to adopt children, and on the other hand, old parents cannot adopt their grandchildren. That's two things that stand. You don't have a chance to say it isn't because it is. Thank God, I hope that the Slovenian people are watching this today and will remember this and will not fall on the torches, on attempts of manipulation, manipulation and so on, including all those who stand on this occasion. One more thing. You can read today, yesterday, that this Mr Lobnik asks again for his office I do not know how many additional resources and so on that so many and so many new people have been hired and so on. And whose story is this? Who is it? We knew what this was all about. We knew that ours had to be set there Not ours – the SD says LGBT and so on, that they would make good money there, do no good for citizens and citizens, actually just collect and make a fool out of a poor nation that works for 600 euros, and so on, or from pensioners for 300, 400 or 500 euros. [[…]] We can't afford this anymore. Even coalition Members and Members, I cannot understand that you have allowed this. To create it in this way, now look at it, the minister once again gave her consent to their – first it was agreed for 250 000 and now to raise their budget to 500 000 euros. [[…]] What are you doing out of your mind? What's going on with this nation? What are you doing out of your mind? Not the people, the people sitting in the coalition, I must say, I'm sorry. People already know what's going on. That's insane. I ask all coalition members, those who have something in their heads, and I know I expect you all to have it, and I believe you all have it, that you no longer allow someone there from some ministry to manipulate a complete coalition and thus steal money from the state budget. It's a clean ending! Legalized neighborhoods. We won't. We can't let that happen anymore. I know that some of you are Members and Members of the Coalition, who are honest, and you are concerned about a people who are concerned about a future that is not about a lobby that has covered social life for ten years. And these are the Social Democrats. Catastrophe! They destroyed even social services, now, if I go inside and see what's going on, go to the directors of social work centres, and you'll see, they'll tell you, and those workers who work there, this reorganisation they're preparing. [[…]] You're going to throw up what people say there! People don't even have any contact with reality there, and once you cut it, you have to cut it. These people need to be put out there, I'm sure they don't have anything else to look for. They don't have anything to look for there anymore. That is where the honest people who will work in the interests of those – as today, I think, the French Jurša said, those who work in the centres of social work must be close to the people. They have to be close to people. And he's right. But here I completely agree with him. Not bureaucrats and so on and so forth. And again a new form of organization, where we'll hire our own. So, before the elections, we still have to do this so that the SD can push theirs into these positions. I mean, that's a lot of rudeness! And more irresponsibility to the Slovenian people and to the Slovenian people. I have to say, I don't care what anyone thinks. Even if there is a Member here in this National Assembly of Social Democrats who has absolutely nothing to do with it. But unfortunately, he has to listen to this criticism, too. I know it's hard for him. And I apologize to him from this place. But unfortunately, this country's system can't move on. Done. These bureaucrats who are taking a story this way must be removed. Disposal and safe. And put people there who will take responsibility. And they will, because they are also well paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u129	Two other Members expressed their wish for the debate. For the first time, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, to prepare Mr Uroš Prikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President. Marian, first of all, to calm you down, I called back earlier when you talked as much about the marriage as you did, and I don't mind you talking about the Social Democrats, but you have some information wrong, especially when you're talking about Lobnik, that he's our member and so on. As far as I know, he ran for the LDS and the Alliance, but never to us. But that doesn't bother me at all. I am sorry that the family code, which, for my understanding, is one of the most important laws we will adopt in this mandate, has been in some way the field of the ideological struggle of the left and right for the past five years. That, I must say, really bothers me. I don't mind that we're ideologically so divided, which is right, thank God, so people in elections can also decide who they give more confidence to, but I know that because of the specifics in Slovenia you are on a safe side. The easiest thing to say is that same-sex partners can't adopt children, and that hears that I am calming you, Marian, even many of our party's members as positive. But in life you don't always have to be on the safe side, sometimes you have to fight for those who don't have many advocates who can't fight who are already stigmatized in society. And if I'm a Social Democrat, maybe it's a value for me to fight for the little man you use most in this national council. But a little man is also gay, a little man is a lesbian who doesn't have the same rights. It is not, in a way, not her own fault — it is not just that she wanted everything so badly that she felt for her neighbor. Second thing. You know, we can accept no family code, we can adopt a bunch of legislation in the National Assembly, if there are no normal people in the family, no paper, no letter in the law helps. We can have, no offense, the nicest family that dresses up on Sundays and goes to mass to be seen by neighbors, comes home, and the father pushes the kids, beats them, beats them, beats the crap out of them, pardons the expression, beats the woman. But in public it's a Christian family, going to mass on Sunday, and that's ideal for a family. There are many such cases in this Slovenia. Every day we read in Slovenian news, in the Council24, we see tragedies that are happening. Tragedy that happens in traditional families. And there, too, children suffer tremendously. It is precisely for this reason that a family code must be written, for which they have been fighting in our ministry for some time now, in order to protect those who cannot defend themselves, which unfortunately must defend the system. That's why these laws are. Marian, we've been here a long time, maybe even too long. You're a super MP, you represent your interests, sometimes you walk away a little bit, you start hurting everyone else who maybe thinks a little differently. And you know it, because I know you've had a lot of experience with this whole fucking politics. Look, Marian, this is a policy where you're making an ad not to your client, you're doing an ad to Primac, he's going to build his story on it – New Slovenia has gone, thank God, smart, out – you're doing an ad to a client of GOD or whatever it is. I'm going to say that now, if I were politically more involved with our client, I'd say, no, my dears, unfortunately no, I wouldn't be accepting this law at this time. You know why I shouldn't take him? So that you don't do commercials to a party that has a convention on Saturday. And here's our platform, this debate -- the best thing that suits her is that I'm going to say, scream, get excited and talk about how in this country we're going to take children, how same-sex couples are going to have children and so on, which is obviously a clean lie. And these, Marian, please, just one thing if you can explain it to me. For the sake of the public, for the sake of the Slovenian people, tell me whether we on the Social Committee have accepted your amendment and confirmed the definition of family. Is it? The second article reads: “The family is a living community of a child, regardless of the age of the child, with both parents or one adult, if it cares for the child and has certain obligations and rights under this code to the child.” Is that your amendment? Yes, it is. Is this recorded in this law? Yeah, okay. Well, it's progress that, for the first time, we agree on one article. I think it's good. Secondly, we went even further, and from New Slovenia we upgraded an issue where they wrote: “The marriage is a union of husband and wife. The importance of marriage is in the founding of a family.” That's accepted, too. But we fight about the same thing again and forget all the other articles that talk about protecting children and so on. Now there's one more thing, my dear Marian. Speaking of adoptions, I had super-old parents, super-parents, I don't have any anymore. I remember once when we thought at home, and my mom thought that if something had happened to me, my wife couldn't imagine that she wouldn't have taken my two girls and kept raising them. But those old moms that are active aren't that big. Sadly, some old parents today cannot survive themselves because of their social status, such or other illnesses, and so on. We have a lot of problems in this area. Sadly, children have to help their parents, their grandchildren help their parents to survive. Now, because of a party's policy, we want to turn this story around. It's not okay. Adoption also entails an obligation, my dear, a grave obligation. But we wrote nicely — and experts write that, I do not have that knowledge — old parents will be able to carry out parental care with a child whose parents have died. Of course, then the secretary of state will tell me the difference between adoption and this, not to me, but to the public. And it's a done deal. And we can't fight where there's no connection to fight. But I understand it's a little political. Left, right. With regard to the equalization of the rights of same-sex couples. My dears, we don't say anything about it in this law. Nothing! Because we are also aware that we have already lost twice at the referendum. Let's just leave it to how many people came to the referendum. But, yes, the countryside explains it differently. So I think that this law is good, that of course it is an opportunity to talk about it and to push political dots immeasurably much. An immeasurable lot. And, Marian, if you were a minister in the next government, because I can see you're doing the most social work, and I believe you could be a minister, you'd probably accept the same family code. I'd take it as it was written today. Because you are famous, SDS, after you go all the way to the government when you're not in the government, but when you get to the government, you know how to deal with the entire professional public. Which is good for us to understand, it's just a compliment. Pension reform – ours was significantly better than yours. But you broke ours at the referendum, then you gave yours, and Vizjak made a very good deal with the unions and all the themes ahead. So, my dear Marian, I think it's because of the family code not me, not you – we can get our picks here now, we get our picks in our election pool, but when we're alone somewhere, alone, not together, we think this code is okay. It saves you because you don't talk about same-sex partners, because that's how you do it, but everything else is very good. And you know why I know? Because if this code were, I don't know, again, there would be a room full of people with banners and yellow shirts, and there would be a lot more engagement there. However, since the matter is relatively such as to go for the good of the child, we do not need to fight much. So, Marian, even though I know you've got a few more minutes, I know you're gonna replicate, but I think the fact is what I told you. We have accepted your amendments, we have also accepted from the New Slovenia amendments. Of course, it is now necessary for the political public to be beaten, but for the sake of the children we do not need it because of the real families in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. A replica, Mr. Marian's debate? Then later. Okay, thanks. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, once again, this time from this town! I naively hoped that practically the whole arsenal of arguments, such as or otherwise, had been exhausted after seven hours of discussion on the Committee on Family Labour, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, but of course it was not exhausted. Why, though, if we had been under 70 hours in previous discussions on the family code, and we had now resolved it in seven hours? I am sorry that Marian is leaving the room now, because at some point I will also be referring to his debate, but whatever. [[advertising from the hall]] Absolutely, you can go to the evening, Marian. Slovenia needs one modern upgrade of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, because when this law was adopted or adopted for years, I think that, 1976, it was of course very modern and very modern for that time. Today, however, this is no longer the case and needs to be upgraded — as it has been changed several times — to be upgraded with the so - called family constitution, the family code. I must say here that there will not be any deception or misinterpretation, the law does not interfere with the substance of the Partnership Act, but is a separate law. The Law on Partnerships will continue to apply, but this law governs one another, a broader area. There is also no fear of sneaking between lines or with some small print, whatever the so - called third adoption of same - sex partners. And of course, there is no fear of fertilizing single women with biomedical help at the side door. I believe that the law – of course, the family code is like all other laws, I like to say this a lot, and I have to say on this occasion, is not an ideal law. It is just a compromise to be forgiven here for this comparison, a compromise solution where some of the solutions proposed by both SDS colleagues and NSI colleagues have been adopted. Of course, many of your ideas, and let's be realistic here, did not see the light of the world through the amendments of the committee itself. This is a law that brings some modern, I believe, including life, and above all with a professionally sublime solution that will serve and benefit people. Before I go to the point where I'm really going to try for a short time; you're croissanting, colleagues, you're croaking with the institute of the referendum. I didn't think of it here because I think these referenda have been abused too many times. We went to the referendum twice on the topic of the family code, and the referendum discussed the adopted law on both occasions. However, let us be realistic, both of which came – obviously people are not so interested in these referendums – at the referendum a little more than 30% of the beneficiaries, i.e. the elective body. And in reality, in 2012 the law took place slightly over 16% of the electoral body, electoral beneficiaries, and 23% opposed the law in 2015. But well, these are past stories. Even these family laws that are now on the table, of course, have some common points, some similarities with past laws, but is different, has been changed. It is a amended law, in the meantime we have also adopted the Law on Partnerships, by saying that this is a copy-paste matter since then, of course it is incorrect. But in this place you need to know that I am not a lawyer, an advocate of the drafter of this law, but I am trying to look at the solutions of this law in an objective way, as we and Desus see in the party. We believe that this will be a modern regulation, which is and will also take into account in practice professionally and also adequately respond to the challenges of modernity, that we will not be witnesses to insidious cases from the media and also to many insidious cases, which are quite and all too, for which the public does not hear and are traumatic for children. Why is this marriage good? It is good that the case is referred to the courts, okay, I believe that it is okay, that the centres will not, after all, be burdened with this, I will say, the government work and that actually the social workers can focus more on working with people. Last but not least on this occasion, I will go a little further, and I expect a lot from the reform of the social work centres, which is being prepared or promised, believe me, everything since 2001, when I've been employed at the Ministry of Labour, but I haven't been employed there for quite some time. Why the law is good, why in my opinion the law is modern and especially why I see added value in it. I see added value because in focus, it brings a child to the center. Child, safety, one way or another, especially the benefit of the child. I think that's the main point of this marriage. Of course, I would like it to be in that consultative body, independent, whatever the law defines, in fact, to express itself, even though it is intended for families as well as broader, that in fact there will be more emphasis on children, on a child who, however we are addressing matters, is the most vulnerable target group, not least also dependent on parents, and therefore, of course, needs to be given even more attention and even more attention than it has been so far. Very briefly, however, about the main emphasis, where, if I understood earlier, I believe that in many ways we agree, including with colleague Pojbič, in Desus, but he simply cannot and many who oppose this law simply cannot pass over the fact that grandparents will not be able to adopt their grandchildren. I in this place clearly and loudly want all grandparents, all the old parents and also the wider Slovenian public to draw attention to one thing, it is true that there will be no adoption of old parents, but this law brings so-called parental care. It's just not gonna be called adoption. This means that they can also be most closely connected with their grandchildren. Why is this wrong, and this law advocates adoption? First of all, all the family ties that are now – as some of the debaters have already said, I also have to stress once again. This grandfather becomes a father, the grandmother becomes a mother, I don't know exactly what the uncles become and the aunts, the cousins, in short, these imbalances break. That's one thing. I believe that this thing might still be able to be solved, I don't know how, but – what else is important here? Of course, it is important that the material condition of the child, the one adopted, is affected. So, there's no family pension here, there's no inheritance here. Finally, this child, who will soon also study and reach out for bread, hoping to get a job, will then take all the responsibilities to his adoptive parents, that is, to his old parents, and will again be in an inferior position toward other children. When you have to live your life, form your family, it will be in a worse position again. So once again, I am warning you, it is obvious that if you are so many times — or if you are opposed that I will not be too much now — you are stressing how unacceptable it is to cut grandmas and grandparents away, for God's sake, we are not cutting them. It's a delusion. We do not cut grandparents and grandparents aside, only this term will not be called adoption, but it will be called parental care, which will mean that they will be able to work harder together with their grandchildren and, if possible, it will be taken into account — of course, in the court that will decide — this will, that is, the will of the deceased parents, we speak only in these cases, and, of course, if it is for the benefit of the child. And I don't see it coming. But that is true, and that is not what the term will be called, and I think that – and I conclude – that it is really not the best, not the best, not at all. It's hard to say that Desus doesn't have any ideological bullets, but here, through the prism of this rule, we're looking at the child's benefit, looking at just one elemental matter, where there's actually no place to draw political arrows, political spears. Because if we all want something, as Marian says, regardless of political colour, regardless of the political party’s membership, it is probably in everyone’s interest to give more emphasis and to protect the child as much as possible. And maybe I'm a little more burdened up here because if I'm being completely honest, my first kind of serious job was at the Ministry of Labour, where I think I've been working for almost 10 years at the Directorate for the Family, and you know, these things get under your skin. They come under your skin things that you did there anyway, and they come under your skin when people come to you, "but you will really cut off your grandparents." No, we won't. By means of this law, we allow them to be hardest placed with their grandchildren. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Please sign up. Mr. Marijan Pojbič, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I have to say, my dear friend Han, you didn't actually have any reason to attack you now after your discussion, but I just have to clear up a thing that doesn't seem right or wrong, and that's what we're talking about in here, and then we're going out and I'm going to say that this code is okay. That's what you said, among other things. [[advertising from the hall]] What you meant, you said something else. And I don't allow that because it's not acceptable and it's extremely misleading. I would also tell you the arguments that I have here before the entire Slovenian public, Comrade Matjaž, outside this Parliament and I could continue the debate in the manner that we have concluded here. And I don't think there's any reason, all the other stuff, I said, I don't have any problems. Those things that are in the code, okay, and there's a lot of them, I also said in my position, there's no problem, we support them, because there's no problem. There is always a problem of two, three things coming into the code that are unacceptable. And that's why someone is trying to, of course, 300 articles to write that two, three things can go in and then they can take the story the way they thought it would. And that's what the Ministry of Labour does, family, because there are the same people. Over and over and over and over again, just otherwise packed. You won't convince me. A colleague from Desus, Urosh, said that after this marriage there would be parental care, that is, for old parents, if I understood correctly. But it's not the same as adoption. It's a huge legal-formal difference! But we're gonna go see what, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, I wouldn't know that much in detail right now, but I'm going to get a lawyer, and he's going to come here and say zero, from A to Z. But the fact is, in a legal-formal sense, there is a big difference. And I'm sure of that. I still stand on the facts and do not depart from the arguments I have made today, both in the position of the Group of Members and also now, and this family code is not written in such a way that people can believe what we have heard from the Ministry and the Coalition. Because there are still two key things — once again, I stress. The family code clearly defines the possibility of adopting children into same-sex partnerships, but in two steps. First, then, if he gets married, then another. And like I said, it's not what Urosh said, one is parental concern, and the other is adoption. And old parents will still not be able to adopt a child under this law. And it's definitely a dot! And someone can say what they want because they can't. [[advertising in the hall]] I'm not saying anything else! What are you up to now, ma'am? If I don't know, since you've been in Parliament, you've spoken twice. [[…]] Please, come on. Now stop jumping in here and don't provoke people. Don't provoke me! It's okay if Matjaž tells me to do it if Uroš tells me to do it if those who sat in there say it, and Jani says so, even though sometimes we don't agree. But he knows the subject, he's talking, he's trained enough, and that's it. Then there's no problem in the debate. We have a different opinion. We have the right to have different opinions in Parliament, because we are different political parties, we see things differently. Look, when we're talking about the family code, here I think that when it comes to children's rights, different opinions are welcome, but solutions must be written exclusively on the skin of children's rights as number one. And that must be our common concern, and I think that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han was not well understood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u136	Only that, Mariane, to be very clear, it is true that we have never discussed the family code outside this House. I just said that it's possible that everyone feels that there may be something good about them, but because of political conviction, they have to talk to their constituents like that. I thought so, now, what do you think, is different. That's what I thought today, and I still think that we talk a lot, not to you, to some Member when we do. But because of your publicity, we never talked about the family code in the hallway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž German, do you have procedural procedures? [[advertising from the hall]] That's later. Good. Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Of course, my friend Pojbich is right. Parents will not be able to adopt their grandchildren, but they will have custody, parental care over them, and that is a better solution. Why is there a better solution? First of all, all family relationships are broken if their grandparents adopt their grandchildren for the first time. Second, the material, material, material situation of the child deteriorates substantially simply for reasons: for the first time, the disabled inheritance, the second time, the family pension, and the third time, these grandchildren or adoptives have to care for their parents according to the proportion of their parent’s survival. And again — these are the moments that Pojbič asked about — this will not make it impossible for old parents and their grandchildren to be the closest they can be, the most connected, and to carry out all the necessary, loving, loving care they need. And that's it. And what will this grandson call his grandfather now? Yes, he'll still be called by his grandfather, even though he'll be formally cared for by this grandfather, but he won't be his adoptive father. But your grandkids are gonna call each other, damn it. And that is most important not to inferiorize a child who is to be adopted or who has been killed by his parents. They're traumas anyway. And I don't think he's here, I really shouldn't be afraid that the child who is the focus of this marriage would be in a worse position, and that's it. And now I really don't know, I can usually do every thing a thousand and one way to explain it, but I can't really say anymore here that there's no fear for grandchildren and for old parents, grandparents, that it would happen to them that they won't be as tight as possible, together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Martina Vuk, Secretary of State, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, a nice greeting after this multi-hour discussion! Of course, they are always welcome and need different opinions and differing views. But when we talk about marriage solutions, it is also right that we all read the same text as it says, and then ask those who can explain the individual text, what it really means. If we argue about the backdrop of the shadow, we usually never come to a final solution, because no one can hold it in their hand, and that's the backdrop of the shadow, that's already a known human. When we talk about what is the goal of the family code, which is before all of us, the purpose of the family code is to protect the benefit of children. Pika. The purpose of the family code is to protect the benefit of children. Why? Because we haven't started talking about this yesterday, but for years now, not to say more than a decade, there is a debate on how to protect the children's benefits in a way that they will be sufficiently protected, because they are the weakest members of the family, because children are the ones who have to have special protection and for whom special care needs to be taken, and where procedures need to be taken, when deciding what is best in this particular case on the basis of specific circumstances for this particular child, and where decisions are made by someone who is impartial, who is aware of this or who can gain expert opinions on what is best in this particular case on the basis of specific circumstances for this particular child. We talk about this all the time in the preparation of this family code, and we talk about it, or at least we should talk about it all the time when we are looking for the right solutions, how to arrange it. Except several times in recent times when this dilemma is being raised, “yes, but now suddenly you find it wise to transfer the competence of decision-making from the social work centres to the courts”, except for these few questions that were not somehow argued, everything through the consensus is valid and you all more or less emphasize how this is a good solution. That the protection of children can be the greatest in the way that the decision-making body is the court, because it has procedures and because they will be adapted to decide on measures to protect children, because social work centres are not placed in a confusing situation when it comes to mixing their roles, when they face such and different pressures, when those who advise, those who observe, those who act, and those who decide — all in one legal person — and who decide in accordance with the law on administrative procedure that is not adapted to decide on children and their greatest benefits. This is therefore the main objective of this Code. To clean up this area. However, since we have a valid law that has been in force for 41 years, 41 years of the law in force today, there is also agreement in our society, there is broad agreement that this law, namely the whole family area and the area of marriage, should be amended accordingly. For this there is a codification, i.e. the whole code, which completely governs all of this area. When we look at the contents of this family code, when we look at the contents, we often hear about some hypothetical hidden solutions that are not written down, but surely the main purpose is to bring them in somehow. Although they are not written anywhere, although they are nowhere to be found, no one discusses it, but surely there is a secret purpose. I assure you that there are no hidden intentions, that there is a sincere, clear, loud and repeatedly stated purpose to finally come to this arrangement, that we can finally establish everything necessary to make this decision-making process truly transferable, that the implementation group, which is a broad inter-resortmental, professional group, from all stakeholders, can begin to foresee all the risks, risks, positive arrangements, what needs to be prepared in two years, which are defined as a transitional period, so that it can then be properly implemented and that we will not be confronted with some congenital cramps, that the matter would not be successful. And when we talk about the definition of family. This definition of the family – yes, yes, yes, the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party – is a comprehensive definition of the family. He puts the child first and then the parents, both parents, or one parent, depending on the family the child lives in. In addition, it adds that the family is also a community of children and adults who care for this child, but with a restriction, in view of the rights and obligations set out in this Code. So just to that extent, it's a fuse. The safeguard is that the same definition does not in itself bring about any kind of programming direction, but it does bring about individual provisions of the law that clearly define what these rights and obligations, to whom they apply, to what extent, when and in which case this is taken into account. The fact is, in Slovenia, the dominant form of the family is children or more children and both parents, mother and father. This is the dominant form of family in Slovenia. It's okay, it's okay. But there are other forms of family. And the law, the laws, the purpose of the laws is to legally regulate those relationships that give rise to individual rights and obligations. When there is no conflict, when it is not necessary to determine what these rights and obligations are, no one asks what the law says. However, when it comes to resolving a particular dispute when certain rights are exercised, when certain obligations and responsibilities are required, then it is necessary to examine how this is regulated in each individual law in force in that case. And that's why the laws are written. In order to anticipate situations where disputes may arise, so that the proper, quick, pre-planned procedure can be resolved, the pre-planned consequences can be resolved. That's why we're handling these things. And when we've been doing this all the time, because you've all been involved – you really cooperated, because this code didn't come behind some closed doors in some extremely narrow circle, where you would secretly write and then as a surprise to present 300 articles and say, here, accept or leave – because you've been working together all the time, reading, commenting in one way or another, and you know what those individual solutions or questions have been raised, which we've been really looking for, that the widest solutions will be acceptable, that we will respond to the needs they are, and that we'll eliminate those risks that we can predict in advance, that after a specific situation has come up, there will be no questions, but now how to solve them, and that nobody has remembered. And speaking of adoption by old parents, we have told each other several times about the situation. So, Grandma and Grandpa are one, Grandma and Grandpa are the other. My parents are dead. Grandma and Grandpa want to adopt this grandson who stays. If adoption is allowed by this grandparents, we only know the perfect adoption. This means that it is written in the birth certificate: Mom — the name and surname of her grandmother and father — the name and surname of her grandfather. That means those parents are gone. They are no longer one way or another because they have died, but they are officially no longer parents and they are erased because we have such arrangements. And no one, as I have understood from this extremely broad debate, but I have read a lot of things, and I should not have, but I would have felt better, because it was really necessary to get to know all the opinions and views, and everyone has pointed out that this perfect entry into this new family relationship is not the right solution. That it's not the right solution. And we were looking for an opportunity, okay, let's write, as some of the marriage proposals have suggested, let's write that family relationships don't break. All right, so we can sort our inheritance out in some way, but not all other relationships, not the duty of survival, not this family pension, or anything that's not anticipated in advance. So, what's the current solution? The current solution is a new institute called the parental care of relatives, where there is a limited circle of relatives, it is very precise which relatives are only able to obtain parental care. These relatives must fulfil all the conditions laid down for adoption. If they are married or out - of - wedlock partners, they can only adopt children together as provided for by this law. The rights and obligations resulting from this parental care are identical to those of parents. The rights and obligations are identical, the only exceptions are those I listed earlier. To avoid interfering with this family relationship, these children do not have the responsibility of surviving these parents, new ones, those who are now caring for them and being given parental care, and still maintain the family pension and other things that are their parents', and most importantly, the birth certificate of this child still contains the mother and the father, the one who did it, regardless of how they are no longer with him and who died. With this solution, I really don't see any problem as to why she should be opposed, except for some imaginary reasons, I will say, or for some other reason that can't really worry that if a grandmother or granddad wants to take care of that grandson, they will care for that grandson. And the removal of this parental care is exactly the same, and only then will it be taken into account when the parental care is taken away from the parents, as is today the deprivation of parental rights under the current legislation. Same. Only for these reasons, in the same way, only in these cases. The amendment was so amended that there were no exceptions, even what had been deleted out, which had previously been stipulated that such parental care was available to the property, as if it were a guardian. No, that went out, too. It is true that in all rights and obligations it is now equal to parents who are no longer. And here we really can't say that there was some covert purpose, and we can't say that it's not properly taken care of that if you want your grandparents to take care of their grandchildren, you could. But, of course, as today, there will also be a possibility of custody, so that old parents or other relatives can be guardians of their grandchildren or children, and there will continue to be a possibility of fostering, so all these forms will continue to exist. First, first, which always has to come from, and we want to prove it or bring it even more with this family code, but it is necessary to come out of need, for the benefit of the child. What is most appropriate in a given situation in a particular case for this child that we are deciding on. And then this child is looking for the right solution. When we talk about how, in some hidden way, the family code does not contain, in secret, some of the solutions that have already been rejected twice in the referendum are introduced through the curves, I am surprised that every time we discuss this subject, we come up with a new reason why the family code was then rejected in 2015. There's always a new reason why people didn't agree. In fact, however, people decided whether they wanted the Family Code to be enforced, and in 2015 they decided whether they wanted the Law on Marriage and Family Relations to be implemented. That's what they decided. And I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that we don't have the opportunity to have such a real, direct substantive debate where we read an article where we would say, okay, I don't understand it, I disagree, and I don't otherwise understand whether we both understand whether or not we agree with this solution. You know, when Mr. Pojbich says, I don't know what's wrong, but can I bring you one that will explain it to you? [[…]] Then let's talk, but maybe it's not that bad, but you just haven't been able to explain what's in there so that we can get along. Maybe it's the right solution, but we just don't want to hear it. But I would not like to hear it for any other reason than what it really says and what is really the main objective of this code and why we want it to be enforced to finally apply. When we talk about what is hidden – today the minister pointed out in the first paragraph what is not affected by this family code, and we stress it all the time, and once again it has to be stressed — in nothing! In any event, it shall not affect the current situation of same-sex couples or persons of same-sex orientation. In no way interferes with the current situation! What does that mean? This means that, at the end of February, the Law on Partnerships began to apply. The Law on the Partnership That He Made — What? What Mrs Jelka Godec, Member of Parliament, has always proposed to me in the debate when we discussed the proposal of the United Left on the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. She said: “Come on, bring that family code, just get the same sex out and we’ll be happy to support it. I support you immediately," said Mrs Jelka Godec in the debate at the time. And now we've done it. The Partnership Act has been adopted and is already in force. The Law on Partnerships retained a symbolic different designation because it was disputed that the same name of marriage would be applied regardless of whether they were two persons of the same sex or of different sexes. So, there's a specific law, he kept a different name, and he made two exceptions. So what a same-sex couple can't do, can't adopt a baby together and can't be subjected to a biomedical fertilisation process. This is already regulated by the law that went into effect last month. Well, that's true. The family code in no way interferes with this. It doesn't expand, it doesn't narrow, it doesn't touch this area at all. But what are we listening to today? That through the mouse hole and the curves we're trying to bring this exactly. Because someone already knows what the main purpose is. You know, that's not fair. That's really not fair. Then in a discussion like this, I really say to myself, okay, I give up, I really give up. Is it really the goal to bring this decision on the benefit of children to such a level that these benefits are protected? Is that a goal for anyone else?Oh, my God! Because once you're in a situation like this, when you're trying to work things out, when we really come up with these solutions, where more or less we all agree on key things, and then, like I said at the beginning, then we deal with the back of the shadow. You know, it's a lot easier to deal with imaginary things than real problems, because you draw them in a way that you can imagine. But the real problems are those you have to solve, and sometimes they are not for the greatest joy and satisfaction. Well, it's sad if we're in this phase. I hope so, and I strongly hope that we are not at this stage of shadow soreness, because it would be a shame. That's too bad. It would be a shame to have all these lines of preparation of this legislation drawn up in order to be back to square one. So people would say, "You know, I don't know exactly what it says in there, but someone told me it's not right, and that's why I'm against it now." No, no! Let's try no, let's really try to know the content and let's really talk about the content. You know, if this family code is not adopted or if it never starts to apply as you want it to, that means that now the Law on Marriage and Family Relations will be in force and applied until the year 42 and the year 43 and the year 45. And then there's the question of who doesn't really fit the current arrangement. Why do we always point out how this legislation needs to be amended, how must we finally come to a solution that responds to the needs of the present time and space, if we then stop and then all of a sudden it is appropriate for the 1976 law to continue to govern the entire area of marriage and family relations? Clearly, though, this marriage was so visionary that it could take so long. I would really appeal to all of you to let us discuss the real content of this family code. Two years, two years in key solutions is the time between the entry into force and the application of this code. Let us devote these two years to making sure that everything is truly ready to be used in such a way that the best interests of the youngest, for whom we all agree, must be protected in particular, because they are the future, and at the same time, in the circumstances, the weakest member of the society that needs special care for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? If not, thank you very much. I conclude with this Article, Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the two amendments of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 85 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 217 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 230 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 283 and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate in its entirety. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes item 4 of the agenda. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law amending the law on student food subsidies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chus. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. He's not here. I give the floor to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, once again my warm greeting, the representatives of the Ministry are not, the motioner! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is at its session 9. 3. discussed the proposal for a law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which was tabled by a colleague, Mr Andrej Chuš, in the National Assembly. In its opinion, the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons presented that the proposal does not support the law. In terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, the proposed law has also been examined by our Legal and Legislative Service, which has not commented on it. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, as well as the representative of the State Council, also participated in the work of the committee on which we discussed the proposal for a regulation. On behalf of the proposer, an additional explanation was provided by Mr Andrej Chuš himself. They also presented their views to the representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and presented the main points they see in the amendment of the legislation. The debate, which followed the opening statements, focused on the financial implications of the amendment of the law, the specificity of the Bologna study, the impact of late meals on the healthy lifestyle of students, the time-limited study process and the possibility of extending the deadline, which is the basic point of the bill, for the use of subsidised student diet from 20 to 22. Following a discussion that was not as biliary and long-standing as the preliminary debate on the family code, the following conclusion was adopted: The proposal for a bill amending the Student Food Subsidisation Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much. In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Andre Couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u144	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the month of December last year and also in January this year, I addressed the social networks and, of course, encouraged young people to tell them what was bothering them in this country. In this context, I have also drawn up five legislative changes and initiatives that I have put into the legislative process and, of course, one recommendation on the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council. The debate on the majority of the proposals that have been tabled, at least until today, was such that I, as the proposer myself, had, of course, advocated this, some of the representatives of civil society and youth organisations who supported it, while the coalition members were silent, silent and finally voting against it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the President of the Government has said that there is no more crisis, and if there is no more crisis, then it is only right to remove the austerity measures that have been taken at the time of saving. At that time, it was said that the measures would be eliminated when economic growth was achieved, but – what has happened until today? Although part of the austerity measures in the public sector, in the area of pensions, in the field of new working days, such as January 2nd, we have not, I will say, abolished austerity measures for the Slovenian economy or for young people. Allow me to deal with the arguments of the coalition, which, at least on paper, were written against the adoption of the law. In fact, they say it's not healthy to eat after 8:00. But, look, according to the theories and views of many nutritionists in Slovenia, it is important primarily what you eat, not when you eat. Secondly, in order to impose this law on the Slovenian budget, this is not true because this bill did not propose an increase in the number of vouchers. So, two a day and nothing more. The learning process lasts after 20 hours – that is not true. Well, even on the committee itself it was said, dear colleagues from the dairy centre, ask your boss when he teaches in law school, and you will see that the study process takes up to 20 hours and even beyond. These are facts, not some fake news or alternative facts. Facts and things you can check with five minutes surfing online. Your boss wanted to have facts here yesterday, too. In principle, the measure would help young people not to hunt for the last minutes and leave classes beforehand. Is it possible that a coalition was sent to students to leave classes so they could come five minutes to eight minutes to benefit from a student subsidy? Don't young people go to college if they want to take advantage of the subsidy and the legal option? Who's gonna pay for pensions if they're not young? You say you work for young people. On a declaration level here, I often listen to how young people are, what we will do, but when we have to do something, it seems to me that we are sleeping. At least this law could be supported because it has no negative financial implications on the budget, and symbolically they have also communicated something to others. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, depending on the vote on the committee and the parliamentary table we have at our disposal, you confirm the people's say that full ass can be "shit". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much. It wasn't very pleasant at the end, though. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. This is another of the rights which, by tightening the belt and deep cuts in social rights, have been brutally seized by the other Janša government. Subsidisation of student nutrition is important both from a social and a health perspective, especially today when the cost of study is increasing. Of course, the political pressure of commercial interests on public education is a reason. The vast majority of students are forced to work on wages under low-pay conditions in order to study at all. And then once they've completed their studies, they have an even more uncertain future. At least what the state can provide is partial subsidisation of the normal diet – Mahnič, stop chattering. Finally, from an economic point of view, the extension is fully justified. It is a matter of subsidising consumption, in this way money is circulating, demand in the household sector is increasing. Although the current government is used to taking the poor and giving to the rich, with this law, we can at least reverse this trend in a small way, restore unjustifiably deprived rights and contribute to raising social justice for students in our society. In the debate on student diet there are also health arguments that in the late hours it is not healthy to eat and that students eat only fast food. First of all, the first argument is based on the lack of understanding of student biorythm and how study obligations work, while ignoring modern food research that breaks the myths of “too late” diet. The second is slightly more meaningful, but this is not really a question of subsidisation, but of criteria for the selection of food providers. It would be very easy to introduce different quality criteria, to change the range of suppliers in a healthy way, if only the political will to do so. So the arguments here are clear. We have three years of solid economic growth, we have positive prospects, and the government of Mir Cerar is the one who is still insisting on measures to tighten the belt. And it's not just a recipe for weight loss, it's a recipe for excruciating. But it is money that reaps the difference in this money, and nothing is left for working people at the end of the day. In short, we will support the bill amending the Law on Student Nutrition Subsidisation in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u148	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Christian Democrats, of course, support the proposal made by Mr Couch, a new Member, who proposes that the term for the use of the subsidised diet be extended from 20:00 to 24:00. According to some universities, i.e. their members, it is clear that there are quite a few study programmes that carry out lectures and exercises by 8 a.m. and longer. After the current law, this means that some students are disabled, in fact they are prevented from using subsidised student diet. In Novi Slovenije, we have already raised this issue two years ago, when considering the novel, why regulate the term by law when it is possible to use student vouchers. Students and students have grown up as independent individuals, and we believe that they will best assess when they need a warm meal or not during the day. Because each person is at a different pace in his life. This is a difficult path, since it requires much more input from families and countries into education, education and information on healthy diets, and requires older people to do so, and on the other hand it can have a positive impact on the quality of life and ultimately on the health system. We therefore support the solutions that ensure that only those providing healthy integrated meals are included in the student diet and that fast, unhealthy food providers are excluded from this offer. As we can learn from the Health Nutrition Guidelines for Students, which was commissioned by the Ministry of Health in 2008 for the purposes of regulating subsidised student diets, we can conclude that, on the basis of quantitative and also qualitative research into the eating habits and lifestyle of the people of Slovenia, the state of nutrition of young people and adults in Slovenia is a worrying force. The available studies on diet also show that the diet of the Slovenian population is actually unhealthy, the average population of Slovenia does not eat the recommended number of daily meals, rhythm or diet is also inadequate, the energy value of meals consumed is too high. It consumes too much common and saturated fat, and there is too little fruit and vegetables on the menu, according to these guidelines. We believe that the responsible Christian Democrats, namely the Government in the first place, will ensure that a high standard of student nutrition is maintained and we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal of this law, which is well-intentioned, is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Again, everyone, welcome back! Although we will not vote today on the proposal for a law amending the Student Diet Act, the objective of the proposed amendment, namely the extension of the term of use of student vouchers, in the Alliance and in the Group of Unaffiliated Members, is supported. We believe that students and students involved in the full-day study process should also be allowed to use subsidised nutrition vouchers after the evening obligations have been concluded. Although not until 24 p.m. as stated by the proposer, in our view the extension would be reasonable until 22 p.m., as proposed by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. During the discussion at the meeting of the parent working body, it was made clear that the schedules of some colleges were organised so that students and students have at least twice a week obligations up to 20 hours. The amendment of the law itself, except for students and students, would have no or no major impact on the state budget, since the number of vouchers available to students for monthly use would not change by extending the deadline for use. The only thing that would change is that students could eat their dinner in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mag. Tanja Zink will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u152	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues! In 2002, by adopting the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, we laid the groundwork for the exercise of the right of students to take advantage of student diet, which is intended to be financially beneficial and to follow the principles of healthy and balanced nutrition. In 2012, there were two major changes to the law, when consumption of food was limited in time, and the implementation of the subsidised diet ceased during the summer months. Despite the non-containment at the time, the medium-term solutions proved to be sustainable and appropriate. What is particularly relevant at this point is that the existing system for offering student food subsidies in our country is good, if not great when compared with regulations in other European countries, so it is only right that it remains so. Finally, the right to subsidised student diet is a universal right that belongs to all students regardless of their material, social or other status. Today, for the third time in this mandate, we are faced with positions on whether to extend the applicable interval of use of the subsidised student diet. Opinions are shared. As with the SMC Group, we are not inclined to change twice so far. Let me explain why. The basic guide to the implementation of the subsidised student diet is the offer of a warm and healthy daily meal. Day and night. While it is true that the current Student Nutrition Subsidisation Regulation provides that the provider is obliged to ensure the implementation of healthy nutrition guidelines, in practice student nutrition providers offer permanent menus at evening hours, and not daily lunches, which are often insufficient to meet the rules of healthy nutrition. This is also recalled by the current Resolution on the National Food and Physical Activity Programme for 2015 to 2025, which was adopted in this National Assembly. Last but not least, it was one of the reasons why the use of student diet was limited in time, for students to use fast food on many occasions. Nor does the study process last continuously for 12 hours, even if it is prolonged. The duration of the study process is limited. This is determined by the applicable Higher Education Act, which includes up to 30 hours of lectures, seminars and weekly exercises. If the study programme contains practical training, the overall burden of the student must not exceed 40 hours per week and 42 weeks per year. Thus, the use of student diet under the assumption of the maximum weekly burden of students is still possible at the current interval from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. The arguments of the proposed law have not convinced us this time, but at the same time we estimate that the proposed amendment will not bring better quality in the organisation and implementation of the subsidised student diet. A key guide must remain a healthy and balanced diet. In the SMC Group, we will therefore oppose the above-mentioned adoption of the law or its subsequent legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We will vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against the fact that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I can say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already proposed twice in this mandate that the use of student vouchers be extended from 20 p.m. to 22 p.m. Although we do not support the proposal that use is possible by midnight. This was not the case with the view of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, so we also tabled an amendment to allow for the use of vouchers from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m., but unfortunately then a decision was taken on the committee that the law was not suitable for further consideration. At that time, I told the motioner, Mr Andrey Couch, that he had made a mistake when he wrote that the law would have no financial implications. If he wrote in the law that he would have 200 million euros in financial implications, I am sure that the coalition would immediately support him. Because if the law has no financial implications, then you can't leave your hand, your right pocket, or vice versa, you can't handle commissions and what else do I know? But if there were 200 million euros, we could put a little bit there. Where did I get the number 200 million? You've given SDH so much as a Christmas present. We still don't know why. The Minister at the meetings of the National Assembly and the Finance Committee does not explain where, in particular, this money is for. In short, when it comes to state-owned companies, when it comes to privileged people, when it comes to first-class ones, it's like this. [[(Applause) ……]] EUR 200 million under the government of Mira Cerar, when it comes to students, is a law that has no financial implications, but then the coalition opposes the proposal of this law. And it is not true that marriage has any financial implications. We know that students have as many student food vouchers as they have working days a month. The prudent master should plan the maximum number of vouchers in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. That is to say, we should assume in the state budget that each student will make maximum use of the number of vouchers allocated to him. Of course, it never happens, it is said, that money would remain and there could be a reallocation. So talking about things in the sense that there will be financial consequences is, of course, pointless and, for hair, an attractive argument. Nor does it argue that the study process does not take place until evening hours. At the committee meeting, the Student Organisation of Slovenia presented the letters and views of some student organisations that the study process takes place until 8 p.m. in the evening. Of course, there is time to go to lunch or lunch, but I do not see the point in this, the eighth hour for dinner is not a familiar hour, so that students should be able to benefit from student vouchers by ten o'clock in the evening. This would not affect health, nor in these hours are there yet a variety of kebabs, bureks, pics, what I know, what else, in short, food we refer to as fast food, which, of course, would be if we extended until midnight. Before going to a party, something sings quickly, even when it comes out of the party. In short, this law does not encourage or encourage an amendment that would have been tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party if this law were suitable for further consideration. This is not possible now, so we will vote against this decision. However, all those who will vote in favour of this decision clearly say that young people are not a factor in this country, that young people are not important to the government of Mira Cerar, and I only hope that you will not vote against this because it is not proposed by the coalition or the SMC. Since, as I have heard informally from the rounds, the President of the Government, or SMC, is supposed to propose this law a few weeks or a few months before the elections, as is the case on 2 January. So if they want to share candy, let's know who can. In short, it is shameful that this is an argument, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we object to such action.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to all of you! It is regrettable to Members and Members of Parliament in Desus that we have to waste time again with a proposal that has already been rejected twice in this mandate and that we will not discover hot water. The only thing we can find out is that a fellow Member wants to extend the time to which student vouchers can be used. From the original two proposals, which were published at 22 p.m., time extended until midnight. Of course, this is not the only law that is taking place at meetings of the National Assembly and takes up the time that both Members and Members of Parliament could and should devote to serious problems and necessary reforms. We will draw attention to this in our parliamentary group on every occasion, as it appears that in the pre-election year it will flood such and other proposals for voting. Not to waste my time saying briefly that the position of the Desus Group on this proposal has not changed. If I sum up our reasons for rejecting the novel at the 7th and 10th regular meetings of the assembly, I can take them down like this. The financial implications are not defined, although it is clear that they will take place, this is what the calculations of the student organisation show. Moreover, the applicant’s statement that there are no financial consequences is not logical and the time limit was one of the provisions of the Public Finance Balance Act, which is a savings law. Isn't it? A number of rights still lie ahead for the release of the restriction, which were either with the Public Finance Balance Act or with the law on the implementation of the budget temporarily and some have been permanently blocked. The arguments that students cannot abstain from taking a warm meal at the time of 12 hours, as far as they are currently available during the day, as a result of their study obligations, are not sustainable, as they themselves bear witness to the timetables of student obligations, which of course must be in accordance with the rules governing the permission of the student burden. Another reason why we do not agree with the extension of the time spent on the use of subsidised vouchers, which comes from public funds, at such a late hour as is proposed is that the country must also take care of the health of its citizens. Eating a meal at midnight, possibly called fast food, is far from healthy. In the Desus Group, of course, we support subsidisation of student meals, and we believe that the regulation of the latter in our country is excellent, since it is a right that all students have, regardless of their economic or social status. It is therefore a universal right, for example, which is far from applicable today for a meal or lunch of children in primary school, which is compulsory for all. Our Group agrees that we do not support this proposal in the third. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u158	Your Honor! For the third time in this mandate, we have on our tables a proposal for a amendment to the Student Nutrition Subsidisation Act. The first two proposals have been tabled in the parliamentary procedure in the opposition Slovenian Democratic Party, and for the third time, this is attempted by a single Member who has apparently not completely broken with his former party and therefore comes nostalgically with the proposal of his former colleagues. Let us repeat what we have already said twice. This time we also agree with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has already concluded in relation to the above that the study process does not last continuously for 12 hours, as long as hours are available daily for the use of student vouchers. With regard to the argument that students do not have classes or continuous 12 hours together, i.e. continuously from 8 a.m. to 20 p.m. in the evening, we believe and believe that it is extremely unusual for students not to have half an hour at twelve o'clock – that is, the amount of lunch for employees – for lunch in the student cafeteria. Because of all that has already been said about this subject, we will support the conclusion in the Group of Social Democrats that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments to the law on environmental protection within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the representative of the Magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u160	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear fellows! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 25th session. 2. 2017 and 26th session 8. 3. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Environmental Protection Act submitted to the National Assembly by a member of mag. Matthew Tonin. In the supplementary explanation, the applicant pointed out that Article 149 of the Environmental Protection Act in force provides that the collection, processing and disposal of municipal waste shall be ensured in the context of the operation of compulsory municipal public economic services for environmental protection and that the Government shall prescribe a methodology for pricing, supply standards and technical, maintenance, organisational and other measures and standards for the performance of these public services. The Ordinance on the management of separate collected fractions in the public service of municipal waste management lays down in Article 15 standards for the establishment of collection centres for separate collection. It is specified that at least one collection centre should be established in the area of each municipality and additionally for each village with more than 8 thousand inhabitants, exceptions to this, and the decree also provides that at least two collection centres should be arranged for the population of more than 25 thousand and at least one assembly centre for the population of more than 100,000. The applicant pointed out that in the construction of collection centres for separate collection of waste, the number of inhabitants should not be limited to the area of one municipality, in accordance with the principle of economy and economics, the Environmental Protection Act and the sub-laws should allow for the possibility of using the collection centre in the neighbouring municipality, if there is agreement for joint use and the collection centre is large enough. The bill therefore provides, as a major new solution, for the municipality not to build or set up collection centres for the separate collection of municipal waste in its territory. With regard to the solutions to the draft law, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, pointed out that, according to the Ministry of the Environment and the Space of this solution, they have an unsystematic impact on the existing Environmental Protection Act, as they regulate the content governed by the Government under the powers set out in Articles 20 and 149 of the ZVO-1. The proposed law establishing the criterion of when a municipality in its territory is not obliged to establish a collection centre, thus interfering with the content laid down by the Regulation and not by law. It further stressed that the proposed legislation only affects part of the arrangement of the infrastructure for the collection of municipal waste and the problem does not address in an integrated way the infrastructure for the collection of municipal waste in addition to the collection centres, we also include collection facilities for separate fractions and for hazardous fractions in the treatment of municipal waste, infrastructure facilities for the mechanical biological treatment of mixed municipal waste or municipal waste management centres, landfills and incineration plants, including related facilities, such as waste storage facilities. Among other things, it pointed out that the Ministry of Environment and Space is preparing a revision of the Environmental Protection Act, which will also include some improved waste management solutions for the implementation of state and municipal public waste management services that will be able to fully meet the requirements of the acquis of the European Union. With regard to the issue of collection centres for separate collection of waste, however, she stressed that the proposal for a regulation to regulate this area would be put into public debate this month and already in the coming month for adoption by the Government. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service did not have any specific comments or found that they had been corrected by amendments with regard to their comments. In his presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Council of State pointed out that the State Council supported the proposal for a law. In the debate, the Coalition Members expressed their agreement on the purpose of the bill, but recalled the warnings of the Government and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, as well as the Minister's promise that the Ministry of Environment and Space would table a sub-legislative act in March to deal with the issue accordingly. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following conclusion that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Environmental Protection Act was not suitable for further consideration. It also agreed that the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space recommends to the Ministry of Environment and Space that the Ordinance on the Treatment of Separately Collected Factions in the Performing of Public Services for Municipal Waste Management be adopted by 31. 5. 2017 amends the way to establish a legal basis for the establishment of common collection centres for municipalities with more than 3 000 inhabitants within the existing deadlines set out in this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much. In order to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the proposer of the proposal mags. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u162	Dear Members and Members! Today, we will not talk about regional waste disposal centres, but about municipal centres for the separate sorting of municipal waste. It's two very different things. A long time ago, a few years ago, the Environmental Protection Act decreed that there should be detailed arrangements for these municipal waste collection centres, not waste disposal, by means of sub-legislative acts. A decree adopted in 2001 stated that such a waste collection centre needed every municipality of more than 3 000 inhabitants and an additional collection centre of more than 8 000 inhabitants. However, the problem was that it did not allow for the joint construction of such a center between several different congregations. And so, from 2001 onwards, it has been quite a few years since there are municipalities such as 23 in Slovenia, which have not yet regulated these collection centres according to this order. Not because they're lazy or because they don't want to do it, but because they already have proper functioning systems. More or less, it is the former great municipal congregations that have operated in a certain area and have arranged and used these gathering centers together today, but nevertheless the decree requires them to build in each of their congregations. This is how funny things happen, for example, that they even intend to build two different centers and the center separates only Drava on one side, then you have the Kamnik and Command case, where things work properly and well, and this order forces us to have each municipality build their own center. Since I have asked the Minister since my election, since 2011, to amend these sub-laws in a way that allows the congregations to agree — and by agreeing with both congregations — on the joint construction of such centres. This joint construction would not make these centres more accessible or worsen waste management. However, it would allow for a more cost-effective and rational use of these centres, as construction would be cheaper and even cheaper to maintain these centres. In order to enable the municipalities to do so, it is necessary to amend the order or the regulation now. And despite all the requests, it hasn't happened until today. The Minister of the Environment has even acknowledged that in the past, an attempt has been made by this order or regulation to hold a meeting of the Government at least twice, but in 2010 and 2012, it has always been withdrawn from the agenda. Clearly, there is great interest that this does not happen, that this regulation should be corrected in such a way that the congregations can build such centers together, because there are obviously lobbyists who want each congregation to build its own center. And since there was no other way here, in the New Slovenia Group we prepared a law where we passed part of the regulations that were passed on to the law, thus allowing the municipalities to build a joint centre in the future. There have been many concerns from both the government coalition and the ministry. We don't see any excessive fears here. In particular, if the Minister predicts a reform of the law, she will be able to do so later in the year. However, it seems important that this law, which was adopted on the table today as soon as possible and thus solved the problems of the congregations, also relieves them of all these inspection pressures and, in some appropriate way, solves the problem. And since the coalition has voted that the law is inappropriate for further consideration, I declare that the parliamentary group will vote against this decision because we assess that the law is suitable for further consideration and that the municipalities need it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The Minister is stuck in a traffic jam, followed by a presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u164	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Act on Environmental Protection currently in force with the Decree on the management of separate fractions in the public service of municipal waste management sets out standards for the establishment of collection centres for separate collection of waste, separately for municipalities and separately for larger settlements. Under the current legislation, it is not possible to build joint urban waste collection centres. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we believe that in the construction of collection centres for separate collection of waste, the criteria for the number of inhabitants should not be limited to the area of one municipality, but to the number of users from the wider community, regardless of the area of the municipality. Our proposal aims at more cost-effective and efficient management of municipal waste. The municipalities, which do not yet have built collection centres, face the problem of putting facilities into space by 2017. Our proposal to municipalities that do not yet have built collection centres makes it possible to jointly build or use centres if such joint construction or use by the neighbouring municipality agrees and the standard of municipal waste management does not deteriorate, such as the accessibility of users to collection centres. On 18 January this year, the Council of State also gave a positive opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection. The Council of State states that the proposal for a law is the product of a multi-annual effort to regulate sub-laws to regulate the possibility of building joint collection centres. The Ministry of the Environment has already twice drawn up a proposal for a regulation that otherwise sought to regulate the rules contained in the order, but the amendment procedure has been suspended on both occasions. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we decided to prepare a solution by means of a law on changes and additions to the Environmental Protection Act. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we believe that the high and unnecessary costs of running collection centres in the municipality are irrelevant if the neighbouring municipality has free capacity and the municipality is also agreed on in writing. The final financial burden is always borne by users or citizens. Why would citizens pay a higher contribution to the use of the collection centre in their municipality if the cost could be lower by using the medo-Centre? Ladies and gentlemen, let us act with reasonableness and for the benefit of people and nature and support this amendment of the Law on the Protection of the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojan Krajnc will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u166	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As part of the consideration of the proposal for the Law on Environmental Protection, we were informed of the situation in the area of the establishment of separate waste collection centres in municipalities. By adopting the Regulation on the management of separate collected fractions in the public service of municipal waste management, which was adopted in 2001, the municipalities were instructed to build collection centres equipped for separate collection of waste within the public service. The current situation is that 23 municipalities have not yet settled such a collection center, and the amendment of the law has also been pointed out. In the meantime, some municipalities have sought alternative solutions, indicating that more flexible rules should be laid down on the conditions and requirements for the construction of collection centres, so that more municipalities can build and use a common collection centre with a consensus, thus allowing more cost-effective and efficient management of municipal waste management. This is in essence, as we understand in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, also the purpose of the proposal for this novel, which we support in principle. In the process of addressing the proposal for a novel on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, the most appropriate solution to this problem has also been crystallised. We have considered the bill twice on the committee. For the first time, an agreement was reached between the applicant and the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, to find an alternative solution together, and in the debate the applicant himself agreed that a sub-legislative act could also regulate this, since the draft law in question contained solutions that were substantively part of the sub-legislative matter. On the second occasion, on the Committee, the Minister committed herself to the adoption of the new sub-legal act in March and to the Government in April. In view of the fact that we do not consider the proposal of the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act to be appropriate for further consideration, mentioned in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The new law is an initiative of the municipalities, which was pointed out by the competent inspection services to the mandatory establishment of the collection centre by the end of this year. The bill proposes to regulate the possibility of building joint collection centres in a government sub-legislative act where the municipalities so agree. Under the current regulation, it is impossible to build collection centres in municipalities that do not yet have them by the end of this year, and this is resolved in agreement with neighbouring municipalities. Thus, in practice, municipalities have collecting centres with neighbours, which is not in accordance with the legislation. On the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have pointed out that this legal basis for the regulation of joint collection centres could be regulated by a regulation and resolved quickly and easily. The Coalition adopted a majority decision on the parental committee to withdraw the law and not be suitable for further consideration and to regulate it systematically with the new law. I would say that these rejections and proposals for these arrangements to be systemically regulated are enough to make me wonder if the government even knows how much work they have. And I don't think even what's easy to solve with the government's regulation is going to work. Finally, however, a decision was taken which we proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group to amend the regulation by establishing a legal basis for the establishment of common assembly centres for municipalities with more than 3,000 inhabitants up to 31. 5. 2017. This is also accepted by the Minister, and I believe that the Minister will keep this promise and that the matter will be resolved by the end of May. At the same time, we will today vote against the withdrawal of the proposal for further consideration in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as it saves the establishment of joint assembly centres for municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues and, of course, Secretary of State! Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal to conclude that the proposed amendment to the Environmental Protection Act is not suitable for further consideration. We agree with the Government's view that the proposed law does not fully address the problem of more than 20 municipalities, which, despite the provisions of the current law, have not yet built collection centres, special orders and warnings from inspectors. According to our assessment, the proposaler systematically intervened in the Environmental Protection Act, for he wanted to regulate the content that the Government must regulate by its regulations, i.e. by means of sub-legislative acts. Nevertheless, we also understand and support in our parliamentary group the intention of the proposer to enable or facilitate the construction of the centres by allowing the municipalities to agree on common gathering centres. In addition, at Desus, we advocate that the congregations next to us should join up with certain services, especially in terms of economics, which unfortunately still do not serve enough, despite receiving certain incentives from the State. However, according to our assessment, this issue needs to be addressed in a separate factions order, which is really outdated, since it was adopted in 2001 long ago. Since the amendments to the said order have already been withdrawn twice from the government procedure, we understand the concern of the amendment's proposer that her novels should not be expected soon, but we have adopted a decision on the home labour body recommending the adoption of the said regulation by the end of May, while at the same time the Minister has committed herself to amending the decrees by the end of March for public hearing and then immediately to the adoption of the Government. As has already been said, the Desus Group supports the conclusion of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! The main government statement of the law under consideration is its non-systematicity, which is, of course, the most frequently used word in this mandate by the Government when it comes to proposals for laws by the opposition. The law regulates a particular problem, and we would have solved it if we had adopted it. In a few months' time, the government could also systematically regulate the area itself, although we are quite honest, the announcement of a systematic overhaul from the Minister's mouth sounds like a bad joke, as well as its party leader said that by the end of the term, systemic matters would no longer be regulated. This will probably not happen in this case, but if it does, it will probably be a disaster, as in many cases in this area. The purpose of the bill under consideration is simple: to allow two neighbouring municipalities to establish joint collection centres for the separate collection of certain types of municipal waste. The matter is currently settled in an order, but unfortunately, it is flawed. That's the way it is, no doubt. Both the bill-maker and the government, as well as the opposition, agree on this as a coalition in the National Assembly. In the Group of the United Left, of course, we believe that this is a matter that is part of a sub-marriage act and not a statutory law, but it is also true that the Ministry has long been aware of the problems that the amendment of the law is trying to address, but nothing has happened so far. The fact is, there are too many things under the law that are poorly regulated and that the government does nothing to change that. The deaf are at the calls and requests of many. In short, it is an old policy, if I put it that way, so in the United Left, of course, we share the frustration of the bill-maker because it is a matter of regulating the pressing issue and because the bill regulates this issue in an appropriate way. And that's why we supported him all the time. One of the main features of the Government’s proposed law is that, I quote, “partially regulates objects and devices”. We can say that at least they are regulated, while in a few years now the government has not even prepared a partial solution to this problem. The current Ministry promises to prepare by the end of May a proposal for an amendment that will adequately address the issue of establishing joint landfills between the two neighbouring municipalities. We are in the United Left, frankly, skeptical about this. The ministers of this government have already made many promises, but there are no results. We will therefore today vote against the proposal on the inadequacy of the law for further consideration. However, since this is already a third of the hockey of this call by the National Assembly, it is probably also an important thought that the importance of this department, which is already in this century, is no longer being disputed, I can say, somewhere at the end of the selection and screening from our quotas, and this is also the result of what we are dealing with here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate the 7th item of the agenda and the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 5.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u174	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 18 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Economic Companies, following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 3. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There were 87 Members and Members present, with 31 Members voting against them and 55 against them. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 55.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present and six Members voted against and 80 votes against. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against the 80.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There were 88 Members and Members present, 75 in favour, 5 against them. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u175	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the United Left, we insist on our proposal that children's allowances should not be taken into account in the exercise of social rights. We find it unacceptable that poor children support their poorer parents. The child’s allowance must be for the child and his development and be fully spent on it. In short, this proposed measure does not take anything from anyone, but certainly gives enormously to those who are completely deprived and in very severe social distress. There were arguments here that then the holder of social assistance would have more money than employees who were poorly paid or on a minimum wage. This rift is artificial. Not those who are underpaid for their full-time work, not those who are unemployed, are not to blame for their condition, so I think those who are most difficult to help should be helped. Above all, children whose development is very important. Research shows that three years of life in poverty is catastrophic and leaves irreparable consequences on individuals. What kind of society do we want, what future and what kind of adults these children will grow up to be, we need to ask ourselves here. So, in the United Left, we will definitely vote against the coalition's proposal to throw the law out. I'm calling on you, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u176	We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 31. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Family Code proposal under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group will become irrelevant to the same Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 60. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u177	Family is certainly the greatest value for many people. This is repeatedly expressed by young people, so it is very important how family legislation is regulated. In Novi Slovenija we proposed an amendment to preserve the definition of a family as it originally was: “The family is a living community of parents and children who enjoy special protection for the benefit of children.” Above all, it seems important for us to stress this special protection that the State has given to the family, and therefore we want to talk more about a family policy that is not part of a social policy in the future – social policy is special, but family policy is something else – it is for the promotion of family life, for the promotion of greater fertility and, lastly, for the preservation of the Slovenian people, for better pensions and so on. And this definition of family is beautiful, appropriate and we want this definition to remain. That this is not a community of adults and children, but a community of parents and children.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u178	We vote. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 61. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors shall become a Joint Left to the same Article under the headings 2 and 3 irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 61. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 3 under Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. In the United Left we will support this amendment. However, we have proposed it from something simple, namely that the family code must follow the course of the 21st century and contribute to equality in our society. This applies to the equality of all families, that is, the equalization of diversified and same - sex families, as well as to other aspects of our lives. We will support this amendment, I hope that it will be found, even in coalition lines, another soul that will also support it, and we will not be able to do together what the ministry has not been able to do when it has politically capitulated under the pressure of the clerical right and taken a step back in the field of equality.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u180	We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 78. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 78.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 3(3). We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 78. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 78.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 61. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 19 of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 60. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 85. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 76. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 76.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 217. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 60. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 230. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 61. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 283. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 27 for them and 58 for them. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. I also conclude the second reading of the proposal for a code. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a code. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a code. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home work body would make the proposal of the Code inconsistent. We're voting. 86 Members and Members were present, 54 for them and 25 for them. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand the code has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Student Food Subsidisation is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 52 for them and 34 for them. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u181	In the New Slovenia Group we have introduced this law on environmental protection, which allows two municipalities to build a joint collection centre for separate collection and collection of municipal waste, solves the acute and immediate problem of 23 Slovene municipalities. With the adoption of this law, the problem is solved today and all the potential threats and possible problems faced by the municipalities because they are waiting for this problem to be resolved and this bureaucratic anomaly to be eliminated, that it is not allowed to build joint centres that are, of course, more rational, more economical and even cheaper. The minister promised two things. One is that the regulation is supposed to be adopted before parliamentary holidays and this is how it is arranged and, on the other hand, it has also promised to amend the Environmental Protection Act. I think we can reasonably doubt that this will happen. Why? Because in the past there have been two attempts to amend this Regulation. The whole regulation has already been proposed at a government meeting and has also been withdrawn from this meeting. So we find it hard to believe that this time it will be significantly different. And one more thing. We also find it difficult to believe that this system law on environmental protection will occur, given that even coalition members and the presidents of coalition parties predict that the elections will not now be adopted or change anything essential, and in particular that there will be no systemic change. I know that sometimes the coalition is hard on the lips or from the heart to support any opposition proposals, but now we have a good opportunity to resolve this problem together. Of course, the Minister still has the opportunity to do these things in the way she wants. By adopting this law today, we do not prevent the Minister from doing anything but to solve the problem today. But we will see what the situation will be after the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u182	There are 88 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 30. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a President and members of the Fiscal Council. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u183	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You have before you a vote on the appointment of a President and two members of the Fiscal Council, which will be an important element of external control over the implementation of public finances. The government proposes that you appoint Dr. Davorin Kruk as President and that you name him as a member of the Magi. Tomaža Peršeta and Alenko Jerkič. These are experts in macro-economics and public finances, who we believe will be successful in carrying out the tasks of the Fiscal Council. With the appointment of the chairman, the fiscal council becomes a state authority. We have committed ourselves to its establishment by ratifying the international Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union. On this basis, we wrote a fiscal rule into the Constitution in 2013 and adopted an implementing law in 2015. It also envisaged the establishment of the Fiscal Council, which will contribute to compliance with the rules due to the possibility of public communication and assessment of fiscal policy. The Fiscal Council, in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act in a normal situation where no exceptional circumstances arise or a corrective mechanism is set in motion due to derogations from the rules, performs two key tasks. In the spring, it shall prepare an assessment of the framework for the preparation of the State sector's budgets and the draft stability programme in terms of compliance with fiscal rules, and in the autumn it shall be responsible for preparing an assessment of compliance with fiscal rules in the context of the draft State budget or its amendments. In addition, the Fiscal Council is constantly monitoring the ongoing implementation of the state budget, municipal budgets, health and pension funds. All of this enables him to assess economic policy plans at least twice a year, making an important contribution to the government's and the National Assembly's public financial decisions. Your Honor, I'm sure it's in the interest of all of us that our public finances get another guardian, the Fiscal Council. I hope that you will put an end to this effort today and appoint a president and a member of the Fiscal Council. Although it took quite some time for us to take this step, it will have to be much faster for the Fiscal Council to submit an assessment of the draft framework and draft stability programme to the National Assembly in April, that is, sooner than one month. I am confident that this task will be a major challenge for the proposed candidates and will be more than a match for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u184	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u185	Dear President, Your Honor Minister! Messengers and Members! The mandate-voluntary commission shall be held at the 32nd regular session of the 16th session. 3. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for the appointment of a President and members of the Fiscal Council submitted by the Government to the Assembly. The composition of the Fiscal Council shall be governed by the Fiscal Rule Act in Article 8. The first paragraph of Article 8 provides that the Fiscal Council shall have three members appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. In accordance with the third paragraph of the same Article, experts in the field of macroeconomics, public finances or economics shall be appointed members of the Fiscal Council, with at least one expert in macro-economics and at least one in the field of public finances. As an expert in macro-economics, public finances or economics, a person with at least university education or education acquired under the second degree study programme shall be considered in accordance with the law governing higher education and with a minimum of 10 years of work experience in his professional field, including an assessment of his/her business performance, performance in current jobs and reputation. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of the same Article, a person may not be appointed as a member of the Fiscal Council who has been legally convicted of an alleged offence which is prosecuted under an official obligation for a term of more than six months. In accordance with Article 8, paragraph 5, a member of the Fiscal Council shall be appointed for a period of 5 years, but not more than twice in a row. The first paragraph of Article 10 provides that the Fiscal Council shall be represented by the President, who shall also lead and organise his work. The selection procedure of the members of the Fiscal Council shall be governed by the Fiscal Rule Act in Article 9. In accordance with Article 9, paragraph 4, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly candidates for president and member of the Fiscal Council from among the candidates notified. In accordance with Article 9, paragraph 6, the National Assembly on the proposed candidates for members of the Fiscal Council shall vote within 30 days of the submission of the proposal by the Government. The proposed candidate shall be appointed if he is voted on by a two-thirds majority of all Members. According to the Government's proposal, the government is 27. 1. 2017 published a public call for proposals by potential candidates for members of the Fiscal Council in the Official Journal. The Ministry of Finance received 8 applications from candidates, 7 of whom met the conditions. Among the last governments, as has already been said, the Council of State proposes to appoint Dr. Davorin Krkuk as President of the Fiscal Council and to be a member of the Mag. Tomaža Peršeta and Alenko Jerkič. The Government's proposal is accompanied by CVs and statements by candidates to accept the candidacy. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Finance of Magi. Mateja Vraničar Erman, who presented the professional competences of the proposed candidates and stressed that the implementation of the Fiscal Rule Act is an important step forward. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 8, paragraph 1, and Article 9, paragraph 6, of the Fiscal Rules Act and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that it adopt decisions appointing them as members of the Fiscal Council: Dr Davorin Kruk for President, mag. Tomaž Perša as a member and Alenka Jerkič as a member.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u186	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you, President. Nice greeting also to the minister and, of course, to all other colleagues and colleagues! Respected, the appointment of members of the Fiscal Council is an extremely important step for the implementation of the Fiscal Rule Act. By adopting the law, we have sent a message to the world about our country's commitment to fiscal discipline. However, this Communication has positive effects on the country's credit rating and on the interest rate at which the State is indebted. The level of the interest rate at which we owe ourselves is extremely important, as a small reduction can already mean more money for example for education, health care, pensions. We can say that by adopting this law Slovenia is recovering faster. The Fiscal Council will be an independent state body assessing the sustainability and consistency of public financial policy with the fiscal rule. It will monitor the ongoing resolution of the state budget, municipal budgets and health budgets and pensions and assess whether circumstances have arisen or ceased to allow for a derogation from medium-term balance. The evaluation it will prepare will be forwarded to the Government and the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the call for candidates has been published four times. The two public calls did not lead to the appropriate candidates, and at last year's invitation to tender, the selected candidates in the National Assembly did not receive sufficient support. Since candidates for the Fiscal Council need at least 60 votes, it is essential to take into account, in addition to professional qualifications, the possibility that they may receive wider support in the National Assembly. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that the candidates we are deciding are experts in the field of macroeconomics and public finances, which are characterized by knowledge of macroeconomic forecasting methods and estimates of the cyclicality of public finances. The candidates seem appropriate to us to lead such an important body, so we will unanimously support them in the hope that we will finally complete this final phase of setting up a system-wide framework for public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u188	The position of the Group The United Left will be presented by Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u189	Thank you, Vice President. Good evening, everyone! Even after all the media reports referred to by colleague Dobovšek as the fourth branch of government, it is no longer a mystery today that the largest parties, namely SDS and SMC, have reached some agreement on the fact that, to put it this way, the composition of the Constitutional Court and the Fiscal Council. But I don't know if people are aware of the consequences of the fact that we will now have an even more conservative Constitutional Court because of this agreement and, of course, the neoliberal Fiscal Council. The trade between these parties is bad news, not just for all vulnerable groups in this society. The conservative Constitutional Court is not only a problem for foreigners or for the same-sex couples, but for all the people who are or are dependent on the functioning of our social state. If anyone thinks that the decisions of the Constitutional Court concern only marginal groups, he is seriously mistaken. Remember, for example, last year's decision that contributions to pension insurance paid by the unemployed are not taken into account when determining the working age. Politics is supposed to be a public matter, so backstage agreements are disputed on their own. The task of the President of the State or of the President of the Government is not that they are sponsors of behind-the-wall agreements on the composition of state authorities; it is not the duty of the President to verify in advance which candidate corresponds to the largest parties and then to propose client-friendly candidates; it is the President's duty to propose those candidates who will exercise public interest and to allow public debate on these candidates. President Pahor, for example, failed to fulfil his duties. In all of this, the saddest thing is that the agreement was unnecessary from a purely pragmatic point of view. The Constitutional Court is an institution without which the legal system in Slovenia cannot and must not work, and whatever we think of its composition, no other court can replace it at present. The fiscal council, however, is a consultative body that is supposed to assist ruling coalitions in the enforcement of the so-called fiscal rule. The fiscal rule is already in place in Slovenia. The calculations instead of the Fiscal Council are prepared by the Government and the Finance Ministry, and the political pressure to comply with the fiscal rule comes from the European Commission and is therefore being implemented by our politicians without call. This means that there is no valid reason for the composition of the Constitutional Court to be linked to the composition of the Fiscal Council. The state cannot function normally without the Constitutional Court, while the fiscal rule can be enforced without the Fiscal Council. Therefore, the coalition should appoint maximum credible constitutional judges, even if it did not receive SDS support for the Fiscal Council. In the worst case scenario, by the end of the term without the Fiscal Council, as we have done today and as we have repeatedly repeated this exercise. Once again, you don't have to be against the fiscal rule to reject this bonded trade with the Fiscal Council. The fiscal rule can and is actually being implemented without the Fiscal Council. Finally, it is also a negative consequence of behind-the-clock negotiations that it replaces a rational debate on economic policy. The key question is not who sits in the Fiscal world, but whether it makes sense to have a fiscal rule. Minister Marble himself has openly admitted that the fiscal rule for a country such as Slovenia is harmful. Of course, the Fiscal Council and the Coalition can reduce or increase the negative consequences of the fiscal rule. Remember that in 2012 the then fiscal council under the leadership of Prof. Senjur protested against the austerity measures of the other Janšev government. History has shown that the loss of revenue was indeed greater than the saved resources, so that we do not even begin to talk about social damage. Unfortunately, we do not see anyone among the proposed candidates who would be capable of such criticisms by the Government, especially because they are also existentially bound to their function. And we will not support this proposal either.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u190	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u191	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the government's human resources kitchen you've been going to for the past month, our parliamentary group is not going to participate. What you've been doing for the past month goes beyond all the limits of good taste. You were talking about a new policy, a policy where ethics and morality will come first. Today, even the basic criteria, these are the expertise, the appropriate experience and references for a certain city, are no longer taken into account. There was no discussion of the members of the Fiscal Council at all on the working body, where the expertise, references and work experience of the individual candidate, which is then decided by the National Assembly, is generally discussed for a long time. Today, the president of the MVK spoke more about the Fiscal Council here, about this speaker, than he did on the committee itself. I think that says it all. The fiscal council should be a group of people who would assess the government's public financial policy professionally and independently. Any government. People who are employed by the Ministry of Finance and will therefore evaluate the work of their minister or their superior, are fit for membership in the Fiscal Council? Is the proposed president really a great public finance expert? I am aware that with the human resources kitchen and the schemes involved, it is difficult to find competent people for the responsible places. Sadly, though, in the last appointments, whether it be the Fiscal Council, the Constitutional Judges or the SDH supervisors, it is more important that it is yours than what you know. Full of you were about a new, different policy, about how new standards would come with new faces. Well, they are. The new standards you've let down as low as you've never seen before. You have evaluated the function of the members of the Fiscal Council and evaluated the highest function in the judicial system. This is the function of a constitutional judge. Anything at the cost of yours sitting where they need them most to work and decide what you want. But not the proposed members of the Fiscal Council and not the proposed candidates for constitutional judges did not deserve to be treated as you did. Dear Government, a respected coalition with the SDS, as has already been said, our parliamentary group will not cooperate in this human resources madness.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u192	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u193	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. Much time has passed since the adoption of the law on the implementation of the fiscal rule, much more than the completion of the constitution which imposes on the executive branch the medium-term balanced financial functioning of the State. We cannot avoid the feeling that the last two governments, the government of Alenka Bratušek and the current government of Mir Cerar, were deliberately stalling because they failed to make a serious reduction in the budget deficit or wanted to go. There were too many financial and other interests of those who put both governments in power. And the same is true of the implementation of the Constitution and the implementation of the implementing Fiscal Rule Act. The current government of Mira Cerar was in no hurry; it was already late with a call for members of the Fiscal Council. Despite the need for 60 votes, she accepted the Human Resources proposal without talking to the opposition and forwarded it to the National Assembly. It was only after the deposit that the opposition began to talk about possible support, with Minister Marble determining who would be more opposition and who would be more government candidate or coalition candidate for the Fiscal Council. The current minister expected the opposition to vote in favour of his or her government proposal. The candidates are not expected to receive sufficient support, and the government has thus removed the main obstacles, claiming to be the main evaluator of financial policies and financial operations, and has tried to burden the so-called non-state opposition. Such an approach by the Government makes it difficult to get rid of the feeling that the Government has done this deliberately and that it is quietly counting on its proposal to fall and that, consequently, there will be no one for some time to evaluate or evaluate its financial acts, such as budgets or rebalancies, or its financial activities, such as the implementation of budgets, or to evaluate reports sent to Brussels, such as the stability programme. The second call was made last autumn by the Government itself to remove the key body, the Fiscal Council, which would assess its non-constitutional budgetary approach. We all know that a fictitious budget has been put into the legislative process, that the legislation annexed was not in line with the figures, but rather, rather, a year earlier, the government has written an excellent budget certificate for itself, and some coalition Members have already read it, although it has not. The concrete implementation of the budget, the various partial business arrangements with some social groups, the unreasonable spread of public money for various stakeholders and projects, and thus our assumptions about the planned delay of the government of Mir Cerar in the appointment of the Fiscal Council only support. It is amazing how much time has been spent by the Government of Constitutional Lawyer Mir Cerar to create the conditions for the establishment of an institutional constitutional financial situation by appointing members of the Fiscal Council. We can only ask how long it would take for this government to actually implement the provisions of the Constitution and the laws and requirements of the Fiscal Council. We can say two things to the two, because in the field of education, for example, the Government of Mir Cerar has not been able to change a single indent in the relevant law for more than two years in order to ensure, in accordance with the Constitution, the financing of private education. However, our parliamentary group will support the candidates for the first composition of the Fiscal Council, of course, with the expectation that the appointed members of the Fiscal Council will carry out their task in a consistent and correct manner and will lay the right foundations for the work of this body in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u194	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. We will vote on each candidate separately. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 9, paragraph 6, of the Fiscal Rule Act, each candidate proposed will be appointed if at least two thirds of all Members vote for him, 60 or more. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision appointing Dr Davorin Kruk as President of the Fiscal Council. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors, Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u195	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will unitedly support the proposal for a candidate for president and then for both members. So here I will give our opinion or explanation for all three. What are we going to do with these 35 votes for today in the SMC Group? We will put a stop to what should have been done before us by the government of Alenka Bratušek, who has accepted the entry of fiscal rules into the constitution and which has not implemented the implementing law for fiscal law first, and then, of course, not the Fiscal Council. We've taken these two steps in our government. SMC, Desus, SD. And I thank you in this place, even in cooperation with the opposition. Why? Because this cooperation with the opposition is crucial and is important because of the two-thirds support needed by the members of the Fiscal Council. That's the rule we set ourselves. The former minister of this government, Dr. Marble, said we were more papal than the pope. All right, if that's true, then today we're apparently confirming three members that could also be called guardian angels. Angels are the guardians of public finances in this country, i.e. for citizens, and the guardian angels who will breathe as a collar to the consumption of any government under this heading of public finances or state money. Now, just a few words more about how capable or incompetent apparently, some say, the three candidates are mentioned. These are top experts in the field of public finances, both domestic and international, long-standing experience. We have a candidate who is a regular professor, an expert in macroeconomic and economics. We have a member who has long-standing work experience in the tax field, in the field of public finances and economics, and a member who has broad knowledge of public financial policies, macroeconomic policies and economics and a number of experiences in the international area. And none of these three wear any other backpack as a backpack of expertise and experience and personality integrity. If this is not enough for some, then tell us what is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u196	Quiet in the hall, please. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, chairman. I admit we didn't mean to call, but we have to do something. What is the key question of Slovenia and not only Slovenia? A key issue and a key issue is the issue of political economy. The political economy that we have, which is based on – that you will understand and my daughter and my 87-year-old grandmother, who is a citizen of the neighbouring country – is working on whether we will cut someone into pieces like sausage and wrap them or whether we will base the political economy on what they create to make me understand, added value here in SMC and SDS. This fiscal world isn't going to save you because it's a bargain. And I'm not going to insult cows here. That's actually the way it is. These people are experts, and the issue of the political economy is too important to be dealt with only by economists, such as themselves and others. And we don't touch that, nor do we touch the debate on the political economy, but in fact, somehow - I agree here with someone who spoke earlier - let us evaluate the composition of this world and the Constitutional Court. Someone in the meantime gets a little mail around, and if this is a new policy, then I'm not Franc Duck and then probably the United Left, I don't know what it is. And, of course, to this and to such approaches and principles, we will resist and oppose them. At the same time, we are also against your so - called golden fiscal rule, but if it has already been introduced and registered, we could imitate some neighbors who were smarter and did not accept it as a constitutional law. Anyone who knows little about politics knows why they were smarter than us. However, we had the Public Finance Act, which in some of the introductory articles dealt with this issue quite appropriately. However, we had a quarter of a century of incompetent government, for which we are also guilty of all those who have just come to Parliament because we have not gone to the elections or we have elected the wrong people. Of course, we will vote against all three. Not because one of them would not be an expert, who also has political baggage, because the minister – I have a big head – I remember quite well – we will vote against it because of the way and because we are not dealing with the essential issue, with the question of a different, more fair political economy. And this issue should also be addressed – it is not funny, colleagues and colleagues – if we seriously read the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because we are, after all, a constitutional parliamentary democracy. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-21-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u198	We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 11. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Tomaž Perchet as a member of the Fiscal Council. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 11. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am also putting to the vote a proposal for a decision appointing Mrs Alenka Jerkič as a member of the Fiscal Council. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 11. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. After this vote, I interrupt this agenda item, as well as the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
