ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Iva Dimic, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert from 11 a.m. on, Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Dr. Milan Brglez from 12 till 14:00, Mr. Tomaž Lisec, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec from 16:00 on, Matjaž Hanžek, Mr. Uroš Prikl, Mr. Tomaž Gantar until 16:00, Mr. Franz Breznik, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek from 14:00 on, Mr. Jan Škoberne, Miha Kordiš and Mr. Bojan Podkrošek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, that's the first defensively proposed law on mandatory testing of the functionaries on the drugs. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Daniel Krivic. Mr. Guilty, I'm sorry. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! In the post-2011 Parliamentary Joint Slovenian Democratic Party, we reintroduced the draft law on mandatory testing of banned drugs officials into the legislative process. So far, nothing has changed in this area. The law then and today is not filed because of officials, but because of the public’s right to know through the use of objective and effective legal guardians or to verify that the highest public authorities operate under the influence of prohibited substances. For officials who have nothing to hide, mandatory testing does not present any problems. However, the public will be burdened by speculation or manipulation if their representatives actually use illicit drugs. As proponents, we expect those Members who are not afraid of testing to also support the proposal of the law and propose additions and improvements, and possibly extend the range of officials for mandatory and regular testing to illicit drugs. In the proposal before us, we propose the following solutions, which, while in law, are carefully worked out, I state that they are essential. The official must take part in tests for the presence of illicit drugs at least once during the calendar year of his mandate. The testing of drug functionaries in the body is carried out by the Institute of Forensic Medicine at eight intervals in the calendar year. The testing must be carried out in accordance with the general, internationally applicable criteria for quality assurance of measurement and quality control and in accordance with the requirements of forensic science. The Commission shall consider four members appointed each year by the Head of the Institute of Forensic Medicine for the testing of drug-prohibited officials. It consists of a representative of the Institute of Forensic Medicine, two representatives of journalists and a representative of state authorities. After determining the number of officials by the Head of the Institute for Forensic Medicine in each individual body, lots shall be taken to select the officers for each test interval. This ensures the objectivity and unpredictability of the testing of functionaries. If the randomly selected official refuses to test or does not approach the test on the basis of an invitation, it is assumed that the test of the presence of the illicit drug is positive. If the test is positive, the official himself hides the test costs. The chairman of the Institute for Forensic Medicine shall draw up a written report within 14 days of carrying out each test. We cannot agree with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposes the law, because it does not state any valid arguments. In its opinion, the government mainly refers to the right to the privacy of officials, with the Constitutional Court repeatedly saying that officials have a significantly lower right to privacy than other citizens, who can always be tested for prohibited substances under the law in the workplace. The opinion of the Government is therefore quite contradictory; on the one hand, it refers to privacy, and on the other hand, it claims that testing for officials on prohibited substances is already regulated in the Law on Safety and Health at Work and refers to legal solutions that are not comparable to our proposal. Under the current regime, the test for all employees can only be carried out if the work is carried out under the influence of prohibited substances in the workplace and if the chairman so decides; this would mean two for officials. Firstly, the procedure is not transparent and objective, as it is entirely unreasonable to expect the President of the Government or the Minister for Persons He has appointed to require a test for prohibited substances or for the President of the National Assembly to arbitrarily elect Members. Secondly, the current regulation may require testing for prohibited substances only if the worker is under their influence in the workplace; however, the regulation does not allow the determination of the use of illicit drugs for a longer period of time, even outside the workplace, when the use of drugs may affect the decisions taken by the official in the performance of the functions. The bill is before us at first reading and can still be complemented by different and better solutions if the majority will be a Member and Members to carry out objective and transparent testing on banned drugs by Members and Members as well as other officials. I believe that this proposal will be supported together.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u3	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Nina Pirnat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when making all its decisions, is pursuing the objective set by us in the National Drug Programme of Slovenia for the period 2014-2020, to reduce and limit the damage to individuals, families and society by the use of illicit drugs. The proposal for a law on mandatory testing of illicit drugs officials, submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Jožet Tank, is not suitable for further consideration, as it unduly interferes with the privacy of the individual; it does not, at the same time, address the overall problem of all psychoactive substances that may or may affect the professional, conscientious, impartial and qualitative performance of the duties of officials. The provisions of the bill are flawed, as the solutions proposed do not provide comprehensively. For example, the draft law sets out the obligation of professional review but does not specify exactly what such peer review should include. It also does not specify the commission's mandate to test officials, but its composition is also questionable, as for example, it does not explain why journalists are among its members. The dispute is also a public publication of the results of the testing on the websites of the Institute for Forensic Medicine and other websites, as the purpose and effects of such publication are not adequately explained. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the proposaler that possession and abuse of illicit drugs, as well as any other infringement of legislation, are contrary to the moral and ethical obligations accepted by the official in the performance of the function; however, we cannot agree with the applicant's explanation that the proposed law ensures transparency in the functioning of the officials. Preventive action in the field of illicit drugs. We believe that the area of illicit drugs has already been adequately and comprehensively regulated. As has been said, the already existing Law on Safety and Health at Work allows employers to take action, where there is a suspicion of dependency diseases that may affect the worker's working ability, to send the worker's employer to a targeted preventive health check, with a view to ensuring the safety and health of all employees in the event of a threat. The rules applicable to persons in a working relationship shall apply mutatis mutandis to the regulation of the rights of officials during the term of office unless otherwise specified by specific rules. We therefore believe that, already within the framework of the current rules which generally regulate safety and health at work, an official who is suspected of addiction diseases that could affect working ability could be dealt with in an appropriate and professional manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the United Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. A respected choir! This position was addressed internally by Staubcuker, the position of the United Left Group. It's not funny. Listen, snowman, the cocaine affair is about re-investing six years of the old SDS law. When you read the explanation, you think there might be something on it. You suspect the author was writing the law under the influence of or correcting psychotropic substances. Why? I don't know how else I'd come to the conclusion that GDP is falling, but if statistics clearly show that GDP has been growing for the fourth year, and if we're looking for quarters, it's already 13 consecutive quarters. I doubt that the related person wrote down, quote, “gey-cocaine fraud” in the draft law. A joke on the side. SDS systematically uses structures to spread hatred to all who do not think 300% as they do – to gays, immigrants, refugees, other vulnerable groups, higher education teachers, artists, culturers, teachers, in general, to all in the public sector, including private, Mariborčank and Mariborčany, if they are not their supporters. Let us only remember the last of Mr Janša's government and the events in Maribor. Apparently, they don't even know the other one. The SDS uses the oldest trick of power – the attention of people to shift from real problems and real culprits to sinful goats. The current sin goat is currently fugitives. There are 272 of them in our house right now. This crowd is said to be responsible for poverty in Slovenia. People of God, Slovenia reached a record unemployment rate in 2013. Record rate of poverty in 2014. The refugee crisis reached us in autumn 2015. Good morning, SDS! Nor is it true that social benefits and pensions are low because of refugees. The Pahor's government cut up security allowances and state pensions almost a long time ago. They're older citizens upstairs, and they might hear worse. All the following governments cut and freeze social benefits. They didn't do it to give money to refugees, because they didn't even exist at the time. This has been done because people are forced to work for various Marof Trades, cleaning services and similar exploitative employers that our governments have never really persecuted. Even the appropriate inspection services have not sufficiently sent in slave-ownership forms of your capitalism. Why am I saying this? Because this law is just another way to distract attention from real and key problems. The news is that it is a warning to all who follow Chuchu and Mr. Lach. We already have legislation to check whether an official is doing work under the influence of illicit drugs or alcoholised. Let's face it, Members don't make the decisions they make because they'd be drunk or drugged. We decide on the basis of our beliefs, the advice of the base, the information from the local environment, the consultations with many stakeholders, the discussions in the party, some unfortunately also on the basis of successful harmful lobbying for this society and the country. In the National Assembly, the current coalition has taken enormously harmful decisions, accelerated privatisation, extended the freezing of pensions, ladies and gentlemen, and social benefits, liberalised the prices of gasoline, privatized even funeral and burial activities. The responsible positions in SDH and the state authorities are, or would be, appointed by citizens who would not be entrusted with the management of espionage – with all due respect for all those who have espés, whether forced or not – but those decisions were not dependent on the psychophysical condition of any individual Member or Member. Everything was conscious and consistent with the collective decisions of coalition parties and sometimes also with cow trades, as recently as with the work of the opposition. Finally, the applicant is left with only a moral argument that the use of illicit drugs is unethical and that this is the basis for testing officials. And that's only half true. In the United Left, an official who enjoys Indian hemp is no more immoral than someone who drinks alcohol. That is why we also demand that hemp be legalised. But let's leave this detail aside and stick to the point. If it were true to ethics, they would prescribe testing for all officials, for example judges, because they have a full mouth, as you say; and for directors of public enterprises, mayors and other public function holders. This discrimination of disproportionateity was already noted in 2011. If we had serious intentions, we would have corrected this in the new bill; and even a number of cases, as the Secretary of State said. Respected citizens and citizens, the solution to the real problems in this country is not in the testing of Members. The solution is to remove from the power functions those policies and their policies that act intentionally and in full consciousness in contravention of our common interest and in contravention of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia; this means, in particular, that we must go along with the other sober to the elections. And if I end up with my friend Sergei, it's a "goat shit and marbles" dilemma. Of course, we will not support such a law in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u7	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, on her behalf, Mr Jernej Vrtovec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u8	Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! In New Slovenia we will support such a law. After all, it is true that after the existing legislation, officials can also be tested, but you know, no official, regardless of the result, does not commit this test to resign or leave its function. But then this public lynching is the one who can achieve his purpose. In this regard, too, we see this law as an important argument. The purpose of the law is to regulate the obligation to test for officials and officials on the presence of illicit drugs in the body, organisation, testing procedure and publication of a report on the findings of this test. I, too, agree that this law should have further procedures further defined. Officials under this law are Members of the National Assembly, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, Ministers and State Secretaries; whereas according to New Slovenia, there is a lack of law that the law does not provide for a test obligation for all officials and officials, including municipal councillors, municipal councillors, judges. Of course, this would increase the cost. The introduction of this proposal is in fact linked to circumstances where the municipal councillor of the party of the applicant is supposed to be involved in the use of illicit drugs. Having considered the draft resolution on the National Programme for the Prohibition of Drugs 2014-2020 with a view to reducing and limiting the harm suffered by individuals, families and society by the use of illicit drugs, we have already pointed out in the past that this is excessive and insufficiently concrete. To close your eyes that drugs are not part of the everyday membership of the so - called elites of a high society would actually be unwise today. It is also true that, despite so far indications from known data, the use of drugs has not been proven yet to any official; this does not mean that drugs are not present among us. In neighbouring Italy, for example, before the pretense, an attempt was made to test the presence of illicit drugs among Members, where they found disturbing information that the presence of most of them was confirmed. Since, on the one hand, sensitive information, which is certainly of interest to the public and which, on the other hand, also constitutes an explicit intervention in an individual, is a particular type of safeguard, which is being incorporated by the proposal of the law, is certainly necessary. So, on the one hand, we can weigh the individual's freedom, privacy and, on the other hand, between the public's interests; for the public is right to know who is taking drugs and who is not. The bill is another one in a series of those that would prohibit the harmful operation of certain substances, in this case illicit drugs; and you can't really be against such a law, which is why we support it in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u9	The text shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, on her behalf by Dr. Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u10	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! The debate on the problem of drugs is still important for Slovenia, as drugs have many consequences and harm; especially among young people. Other issues need to be discussed, drugs are only one segment. What about medicines that have similar or similar effects? The whole range of medicines is on the black market, which can also be used by officials; and of course the problem of doping substances. Why euphoric people sometimes? Why is it so euphoric in Parliament? Different kinds of drugs. We already have legislation to deal with this kind of problem. The problem is the implementation of such legislation. And the role of the chairman in such procedures. The laws will not fully resolve this, there will always be a possibility of complaints. The possibility of what went wrong and procedural errors, so I believe that political responsibility is crucial for officials. Officials have a so-called reverse burden system and have to prove themselves before their constituents, before the public, that they do not use drugs. And any official can immediately with the one who has invited him and has clues to such a problem, go on taking certain substances and take blood, hair or urine and then be tested along with the one who thinks he's under the influence of these substances. The debate on this type of issue is appropriate and the proposals for laws are appropriate to discuss this. However, we have a number of problems that are open, who are the officials and who will be considered; what types of tests will be carried out and which institution will have credibility for such tests. Moreover, who will pay for all of this will have the financial consequences of this law at whose expense. The role models give society the right direction, what is wrong and what is wrong; and especially to young people. With regard to the drug problem and everything related to drugs, it is essential to set an example for young people and to prevent the spread of drugs among young people. Besides, there's another problem where officials get drugs. And the connection to the criminal activity that supplies this drug. And then there's addiction, not just drug addiction, but dependence on who gets you drugs. Discussions on this type of issue are therefore important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u11	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Erika Dekleva.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u12	Dear Members, Members, Government Representative and everyone else! It is certainly not a coincidence that the proposal for a law introducing mandatory testing of officials against prohibited others is faced at a time when the proposer, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, unrest and instability in its own kind. We could speculate that this is a penal policy of the Slovenian Democratic Party or a negative campaign, which we all remember very well from some other times. In 2011, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group introduced an identical law and it was already clear that the law was only a populist tool in today's hotter parliamentary debates. However, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we are not looking at the past, but we are only interested in what we can do for the better tomorrow. That is why we have also examined this proposal with all due diligence and have found that the proposal for a law is flawed, poorly prepared, refined and, above all, useless if adopted. As a result of such a law as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, no citizen of Slovenia will live better; however, there will be renewed unrest, uncertainty and mistrust of citizens, which plagues society and prevents significant changes. We are already used to such negative campaigns by the proposer. Now, to the content that we already think is controversial in view of the proposaler's very objective. This points out that the adoption of such solutions is necessary because of the responsible policy and transparency of the functioning of public officials and the associated responsibilities towards citizens and citizens. They would therefore introduce mandatory checks on the presence of illicit drugs, but they would only do so for a very narrow circle of officials. This, however, is subject to the same rules already in the existing regulation, which apply to all persons in a working relationship, i.e. provisions relating to safety and health at work. We also believe that responsible conduct comes from an individual. Members and Members of Parliament are directly elected on the basis of voter confidence and we already have an institution in representative democracy that prevents the abuse of the situation. It is called the general direct elections, which means that this confidence of voters in the representatives of the people is not self-evident, but is put to the test at intervals. But trust is reflected in the outcome of each election. The use of alcohol and other psychoactive substances, which are not necessarily prohibited, is also considered to have an important impact on the psychophysical abilities of an individual. On the other hand, we know that certain methods of testing for illicit drugs are methodologically less reliable than others. Therefore, in certain cases, in particular in the case of urine tests, drug testing may also produce incorrect results, which in the case of publication of such a misleading result would constitute a disproportionate intervention in an individual. Drug abuse banned and permitted is a major problem in practice in all developed societies. It is a harmful decision made by an individual who harms himself and, in many cases, others. Everyone, in particular Members and Members and other representatives of the country's highest functions, should endeavour to contribute, in particular, to the prevention of the use of all harmful substances and to the elimination of the consequences of such and different addictions. We are convinced that such a bill does not help at all. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration; we recommend that, in cases where it is unable to control its own species, it find more suitable levers and, with a meaningless proposal, does not burden the state structure and does not waste the time and energy it could use for citizens of more important content in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nada Brinovšek, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u14	I have to say, it's very interesting to listen to your point of view. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, for the first time, the proposal for a law on mandatory testing of officials on illicit drugs was tabled in the 2010 National Assembly and was unfortunately also rejected. The adoption of a law on mandatory testing of illicit drugs officials is in our opinion in the public interest and ensures that officials in the country are regularly monitored for their resistance to drugs. In our view, it is a responsibility for citizens and citizens and it is a responsibility for our Slovenia. Citizens and citizens are directly entitled to be aware of whether Slovenian policies, such as the President of the Republic, Members of the National Assembly, President of the Government, Ministers and State Secretaries, are also those with a mandate to decide the fate of citizens, so to speak, clean or possibly decide under some influence of prohibited substances. There's a serious reason why illicit drugs are banned in the first place. The fact is that the drug user becomes addicted and thus incapable of critical thinking and adequate decisions. With the user, the drug becomes a primary interest. All other questions become secondary to him. The user neglects not only himself and his family, but everything for which and for which he is responsible. Even the whole country, of course, if you want, if it is given to it, to make some important decisions on its behalf and on its account. At the time of the introduction of the law, we have heard in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is a matter of violation of the law of privacy. We also heard other observations, even today in positions. But our opinion is that it's not a violation of privacy. Then why are we persecuting corruption between politicians? Since it is, of course, a functionary, the institution of authority, which makes certain decisions that are in the interests of the briber; not in the interests of the state. Therefore, the assets of politicians are controlled and this control is never considered to be unconstitutional. Nor is police guilt testing at the wheel considered a non-constitutional violation of privacy. Police who catch a driver driving under the influence of drugs not only have the right to act, but must act because a drug addict threatens himself and others first. It should also be pointed out that the Act on Safety and Health at Work in Article 51, which deals with the prohibition of work under the influence of alcohol, drugs and other substances, states that a worker must not work or be in the workplace under the influence of alcohol, drugs or other prohibited substances. This is referred to in the first paragraph of Article 51. In paragraph 4, however, the law states that the employer must remove a worker who has worked or has been in a position contrary to the provisions of this Article. Pilots are also required to be tested for drugs every year because many people depend on their conduct and their correct assessment of circumstances. The drugs seem to be more widespread among politicians as well. It is therefore worth our discussions and some preventive measures should be put in place, if possible and if you wish to express your will. Following the proposed law that we are considering today at first reading, I would like to stress that, at first reading, after this proposal, members of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, ministers and secretaries would be tested for illicit drugs once a year. This is the first hearing, and we can definitely add the judiciary to the next hearing. The law somehow stipulates that the selection of officers would be determined by lots, which would be determined by a special commission and the testing would be carried out by the Institute of Forensic Medicine. The results would be made available to the public and a positive outcome would not trigger or result in any criminal sanctions other than moral sanctions. I emphasize – except for morals. It is a preventive measure for moral pressure on the official to maintain sobriety in making important decisions so as not to take decisions within the framework of his so-called fantastic days. The euphoric decline in criticism, which is one of the most important effects of neuroleptics, is too dangerous for us to remain indifferent to the increasing use of drugs among politicians. At least not in this national council. With the emergence of a political function, each individual becomes exposed to the public’s interest, resulting in the marriage of his or her privacy. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already stressed in its decision-making in the context of public and private coincidence that an individual must, by entering the area of social events, also take on the risk that his or her conduct will be subject to discussion and judgment in the context of his or her role in the event in which he or she comes into contact with a number of people. With regard to the issue of the presence of illicit drugs among political officials, some examples of international practice should be highlighted. Voluntary testing was organised in Italy by Ambassador Carlo Giovanardi. The latter also held another voluntary test on the basis of a sample of hair and urine as secretary at the Prime Minister's office in November 2009. In Croatia, the candidates of the Istrian Democratic Assembly were elected before the local test elections in 2009. Furthermore, in the Republic of Austria, one of the political officials and the Vice-President of the Freedom Party carried out a test on illicit drugs in autumn 2009 by removing the hair sample in the presence of the notary. In this case, he was analysed nine months ago for the contents of the substance in his body. Of course, there are even more of these cases, some of which are also described in our material for today’s session. The fact is that we have to be political officials as an example to our citizens and citizens. And this law governs one of the important areas which can severely restrict political officials in their decisions, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration and we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u15	The text shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franz Jurša, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u16	President, thank you for your word. Nice welcome to the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Health. The greeting is also valid for you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I also welcome all the others who are in the hall. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the deadline in which you, honourable Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, tabled this law. I must say, you didn't have the happiest hands here. You know what I mean. The second thing I'd like to point out is that I won't take the time with this explanation, not just for you, but for all my colleagues and colleagues, because we've told you about it years ago. You can all look at the magnetogram and it won't change significantly. However, I am going to say a few things about what is related to the deadline for the application of this law. This law raises a great deal of dust; and it literally does. It appears that in the party proposing this law, they are disappointed with their young members and have decided to put into the process the law for mandatory testing of drug-prohibited officials. We understand that our fellow Members would like to make order in their ranks. But we do not understand why they want to draw all of us here and other public responsibilities into this story. Believe me, in our parliamentary group, which is on average a little older, we certainly have no problem with mandatory testing for illicit drugs. If you need to hold your head and cut your hair, call the hairdresser and let him do it to me right here. I'm willing to test this personally from my own pocket to pay. Why, he'll ask a lot of questions because it's a good idea. And it is precisely because it is a populist proposal, a diversion of attention, and it was made with a precise purpose, which is political discredit, just as it was six years ago. As already stated by the Government, rules applicable to persons in a working relationship shall apply mutatis mutandis to the regulation of the rights of officials during the term of office. Therefore, an official suspected of being dependent may also be immediately sent to the review and his situation determined. At the end of my brief presentation of my position, I will say that we will not support this proposal in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u17	The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats, in its name mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and others! After all these views we've heard, what else to add. But let me take a look at this proposal in 2011. France Tsukati then compared the use of drugs and corruption between politicians on behalf of the proposer on such a proposal. He argued that the public has the right to know whether or not he is a public official in his conduct under the undesirable influence; or whether he is a corrupt bribery by capital or political lobbying; or whether he is a reduced criticism caused by the impact of drugs. He felt that corruption was being pursued because it had been captured by an authority that made decisions that were in the interests of the underprivileged and not in the interests of the State. This is what we in the Group agree with. The question that arises to us is how is it that, despite this awareness of a party, among them especially the SDS, which gives so much to transparency and the KPC does not report all its contacts. Why?Oh, my God! But that's not the topic today. Today's theme is not drugs. Today's topic is discipline. In this proposal, the proposer shall lead only one – revenge on his former Member; and he shall use all means. This proposal is also part of this action. It would be interesting to know whether she also addressed such requests to her members, especially those we saw on the video. The SDS proposes that members of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, ministers and state secretaries be tested for illicit drugs once a year. This is about where the other officials are. The selection of officials would be determined by a special commission in which, by the way, the public interest would represent two journalists and the testing would be carried out by the Institute of Forensic Medicine. The results would be made available to the public and a positive outcome would not trigger any criminal sanctions. So what would be the purpose of the law?Oh, my God! In their view, it is a preventive measure and a moral pressure on the official. In the Group of Members, however, we believe that the proposals in this proposal see only one – an opportunity to discredit. When this proposal was considered six years ago, many asked themselves spontaneously whether they would not first test the author of this proposal. Some also wanted to engage a psychological profession. As at that time, in the Group of Social Democrats today, we are also asking whether the proposal really means ensuring transparency in the functioning of officials and preventive action in the field of illicit drugs and reducing their use. Then why do you always forget about alcohol abuse? Our assessment remains the same, this marriage proposal is one of the worst in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism, which cannot be proud of anyone. Whatever their reason, indeed, is, laws — bad or good, harmful or not — it is legitimate to propose. It is equally legitimate to reject such proposals. And we will do this today, just as we did in the proposal six years ago, in the Group of Social Democrats. Your accounting practice with the unsuspecting, who do not even need to be your opponents in the true sense of the word, has a long beard. Your operating mode is clear. Various attempts at manipulation and demagogies are not only observed in one case. The proposal does not even stand for a serious substantive judgement. Such a proposal further undermines the reputation of public function holders. With such and similar practices, you only cultivate an ever-increasing resistance of people to politics, causing them needlessly additional anxiety and impressions that everything is wrong and bad. The Social Democrats agree with the conclusions that the proposal is offensive to all the public function holders listed in this document. In the view of the applicants, these are clearly those functions where their holders would not have, or deserve, a constitutionally protected human rights guaranteed to everyone — the inviolability of human body and mental integrity, their privacy and personal rights. In view of all the above, the Group of Social Democrats will not support the bill. We believe, however, that in this assembly of Parliament, the majority of Members are sober and free of the influence of prohibited substances and that once again this proposal will remain just a proposal that has wasted time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Daniel Krivec will be given the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for your discussions, but first let me say that we didn't want to be offensive. The proposal to be tabled in the National Assembly, which has a basis in the Rules of Procedure and in all the rules to be followed, cannot in any case be offensive to anyone. I just can't buy this from a colleague. There is no intention to make the proposal offensive. A number of dilemmas were raised in the debates. The Ministry lady said that the procedure should be defined. The procedure is very clearly defined because it relies on the forensic profession. They prescribe procedures; also because drugs change over the period, new procedures and testing may change. It's a matter of profession, so it's also defined that way. The press, you said why the press. Whenever there is a problem with some credibility, this is also a matter that the public is monitoring. Remember the various pressures on information that Members are plagiarists and things like that. Even then, there was no instrument to insure these people; the only solution is to go into the process of reviewing their diploma. In this case, it's the same. If such a test existed, as we foresee in the bill, all these dilemmas, which could be triggered on purpose or unintentionally by the media or some other public, would be eliminated. Public publication on the website. Already in the introduction and in the presentation, we have warned that we are public officials and that is why the public is also interested in learning about such things. Why? Just to eliminate some dilemma and some suspicion that a Member may be affected by some use of drugs, it may influence him outside the working time, if that is the way you want it. During that period when we are on parliamentary vacations, someone may use drugs or some other prohibited means, and through this falls under the influence of some institution or some supplier. This will not be seen in the process when he is at work or when he is sitting in Parliament or when he is in his responsible office in the case of another official. Things are more complex than you want to present. And the matter in this light has so far not been fully settled. The Law on Safety and Health at Work discusses only when suspicion is detected or when someone determines that he is under some influence, either alcohol or drugs. At that time, the chairman has an opportunity, by some procedure, to carry out the matter. But let's avoid anything that's out of business. We know that drugs can be very elegant. In this case, someone can depend not only on drugs, but also on the pressure of a group that exerts this pressure outside of work time, during weekends, at some other time. That's not what this law does. The government also says that there is an excessive interference with the privacy of officials. On the one hand, you're saying that this is already arranged, that we're already overreacting to the rights of an official. On the other hand, you claim that this law unduly interferes with certain rights. You seem to be contradictory to each other. You all said the marriage was flawed. I have already said in the introduction that the law is in the first reading, not to forget that it is well-intentionally proposed that some things be arranged, that some procedures may be added, and in particular that other officials may be added. We have no problem with that. You mentioned the judges, the mayors. I doubt, however, that the municipal councillors would have been subjected, because also from the KPK report they were exempted if you would have remembered at least those who were once saints. Even municipal councilors no longer report to the KPK. A set of officials is a matter of further consideration and procedure, if it is the wish to do so. Mr Dobovšek has made it clear that drug dependence and everything related to it has consequences not only for a specific person but also for a wider area; it is through this additional influence that can actually occur in an individual through some financial dependence. Clearly, suppliers are also very financially attached to such a person when they put someone into dependence. And like I said, it's not necessarily happening at the time of work that some chairman might somehow find out. At the modern center party, you said it was a controversial goal. The goal is for all of us to act responsibly. And if any prevention is introduced, it's just an additional argument and an additional security guard for transparency and some responsibility. The athletes are also considered to be able to be tested at any time, but there are also unannounced tests. Even when you mention alcohol, you're stopped on the road, and you're not parliamentary, or you're going to make an alcove. You've all relied on why we haven't proposed verification and alcohol use issues yet. In the Modern Centre Party, you have to deal with it, on the one hand you are problematic, on the other hand you are talking about a law that we are going to deal with, which is also accelerating or giving you an even greater opportunity to pour alcohol. At least in your views, be consistent when you talk about it. Mr Dobovšek said that drug abuse is a major problem in modern societies and that data from other parliaments indicate that it is not such a negligible problem. I hope there's some support for that. The views stated that this law would not contribute to any improvement in this area. I really don't know on what basis you can figure that out. The procedure envisaged is also very transparent because it does not specify in advance who needs to be tested at a certain point in time. And from this point of view, I think everyone is in an equal position, as opposed to referring to an existing law that speaks of sending someone over. In this case, it may also be a mobbing or bullying of an individual. And I really don't want our president of the National Assembly to have to send someone to be tested. However, if we come to a point, our marriage is more responsible for this random testing of individual officials. Mr. Jurša said it wasn't the right time. The term is always right for consideration in the National Assembly, as the law is proposed when a matter is being resolved. If we have proposed this in 2011 and now we are proposing again, I see no harm in this. I would expect, however, that in a coalition that had a mouthful of the fact that this law was unnecessary and that we were stealing time in this House, you would indeed come up with a proposal for some concrete laws; for in certain areas, we did not consider any law in the entire mandate, except when it was necessary to intervene in the resolution of some agricultural land. A colleague from Social Democrats said we don't report any contacts to KPK. I can assure you that whenever we have lobbyists or at least I'm personally reporting contacts, I don't know why it flew to me. Nor is it about revenge on an ex - member, an ex - member has been tested, he is clean, because of his problem this law has not been introduced. This he himself will explain if he wishes, it is not about revenge, because this law treats all officials equally, does not treat Mr Cuz separately. It is not about revenge and discrediting an individual, but it is about establishing a system that will deal equally with all potential officials, current and those who continue to appear in such functions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u21	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Prepare Mrs. Marinka Levičar and Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. This topic gives a lot of points for speaking and conspiring, but I'm not going to fall into this trap. Let us ask ourselves what our basic mission is. Here we are Members and Members of Parliament. What is our primary mission? I'll put it in the language that young people will understand it if we don't already have young politicians. Our basic mission is to establish, through legislative procedures, through strategies, through visions, through the appointment of responsible people to positions of responsibility, the flower experts and experts we have, the conditions for dealing with life. Pika. This is our basic mission here. Is drugs a problem? So. Does this law save, deal with them appropriately? No, no, no. Is the problem also a social drug, which is definitely alcohol in Slovenia? Yeah. Any party can propose almost anything here. I can suggest we idolize the calf. Is the party proposing this law a member of the EPP? Yes, it is. Does all the serious European media say how Mr Juncker has problems with alcoholism? There is. Have you done anything? You're not. Well, one of them would have examined the hindquarters, the other would have looked at something else. I guess the reporter's gonna announce that I cut my hair because I'm scared. I got a haircut because my wife chased me away because I'm going with the delegation of the Interparliamentary Union to Dhako next week. Sometimes I wonder if the pilot's on the plane. In this National Assembly, in this coalition, even in the SDS, when their pilot is even pleased to join the National Assembly. Even if I wanted to fix myself up, I couldn't, because these assholes in this national council made me fall together in early June. I have an allergy, three-quarters of what's in the cafeteria, which everyone reads to us, and I can't eat, and I can drink white kids, and I can have a little beer, and it stops here. The biggest mistakes are when adults conclude on the whole population. Whenever I've been critical of the coalition, it's one of her MPs, and I'm not going to say who on my uncle always told my experts whether she didn't take the pill today, or didn't give it to him; until our Lara sat him down like that. If you have a problem with cocaine and underage, save him. If a party has a problem not winning the election and its life leader demolishes the office, that's your problem. This is not my problem, this is not the problem of the United Left, this is not the problem of this Slovenia. And if this is done by a party that has been in Parliament for 30 years, if we add up all the money that people in this country have given for you, and we're paying it off, it's already one big budget of some medium-sized city hall. Shame on you. Shame on you. Shame on you. Peter Wilphan was trapped, he was puffed up, he was inside the limit, he was tested for blood, he had 0.00; he gave up. Nice example of how to do that. I'm going to end with Peter Wilphan and I not need this legislation. The responsibility of citizens and citizens, as well as parties and also coalitions, is what kind of people he puts in some positions; we have had a good exercise on this recently with regard to constitutional judges. And I hope that people will no longer be struck by such people in the National Assembly. From this composition of the National Assembly, we may be 15, which we deserve to be in the next composition of the National Assembly, and I count all the customers, including one of yours. I'm embarrassed that you put Daniela in this because I really appreciate him.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u23	Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary, Ministry of Health, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much. As I have already pointed out, the proposed law only partially addresses the issue of the use of certain psychoactive substances, but it certainly does not propose a comprehensive solution that would actually reduce or prevent the use of all psychoactive substances, including alcohol, among officials. However, I would like to clarify and re-emphasize the irregular procedures. Those here who have little knowledge of medicine know very well that the method of testing and also the type of drugs depends on how much time after taking drugs can be detected. Sometimes drug traces can be detected only a few hours after ingestion, and in certain drugs, for example, it is possible to understand the presence of drugs after several months or even years after ingestion. So the drugs we detect from the hair sample for a few years, or in the urine just a few moments, a few hours, are not the same; but they are all drugs. It is also not clear from the bill how the result of the drug testing would then be dealt with, which confirms the use of drugs in the past, when an individual has not yet acted as an official. There is a great potential for misuse of such data, which in the case of officials may have disproportionately significant consequences, which I have already stressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u25	Mrs. Marinka Levicar has the floor. Prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you, President, for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In fact, I have nothing new to say because my colleagues who do not agree with this law and also Mrs Nina Pirnat, Secretary of State, have also said very nicely what this means from a professional point of view. I'm just going to say a few essential things that I think need to be stressed over and over again. This marriage seems like a complete nonsense to me. And I will also repeat this, as my colleagues have already said, if they have a drug problem in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, let them solve it, because there is every chance that they can solve it. I am sure that we do not have this problem in our parliamentary group and not even among Desus' policies, so I am surprised when colleague Nada Brinovšek said that drug use among politicians is increasing in Slovenia. I know that the use of drugs in general is increasing, among the population, but where does it now get this information, that it's getting bigger in politics, I don't know. I think it's spitting in your own bowl if you ask me. I don't know if he should explain it to me later when someone else applies for the debate. I think it would be much more useful if we talked today about the harmfulness of drugs and all the illicit substances, including alcohol. Since alcohol consumption is also increasing, especially among young people, to discuss what preventive measures we will take in addition to marriage in order to have the effect we all want on our youth and the elderly on a mature population that has consequences for the use of these drugs and alcohol. Even with regard to the costs of this testing, they would certainly be high. What would be the effect? Just moral sanctions. How much do we put on these moral sanctions?Oh, my God! I don't know. I don't know how our electorates feel about this, and then what would be the effect of these moral sanctions if they were even possible. Maybe a moral burden, I don't know what they meant by that. In short, this marriage really makes no sense to me, so I'm not going to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u27	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Of course, an attack is the best defense. This is when you want to draw attention from what is specifically stated in a proposal and from what it is supposed to bring or take away. You can turn things around, you can look for the reasons behind the marriage proposal in conspiracies, in trouble [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u29	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u30	in a diversion of attention, but the fact remains. [[…]] Or do we want to test ourselves when we're called to do this; not when someone says 14 days or 5 years later, and now I'm going to test myself. No, no; when someone calls, they'll show their lot, let's go or not. That's the whole point of this marriage. Everything else is ballast. Everything else is ballast and playful, but what could have happened if this law had been passed. Indeed, we have proposed such a proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party years ago. We are convinced that even because of the various phenomena in the public, it is often the convictions of individuals who do not drink water, but it can; in fact, it is a burdensome law for us. This is a burdensome law for all of us, for then there will be no record – whether it is them, whether it was there or it is doing so; but the matter is concluded. What's with the officers? Because in this country we have some other status. Surely this law is not written for us in this sense, as has been said, I think that said formerly Comrade Duck – I do not need it, Mr Wilphan does not need it. No, that's what citizens and citizens need. They need to know who their officials are and whether or not these officials are doing things that may be the result of some risks, some evictions, pressures and, therefore, unwise or wrong decisions. But here we can already be in law, and here we can already be in the performance of individual functions. Allow me, however, to respond to some of the debate. Dear Secretary of State, you have been so precise about this law in your first reading, each sentence bothers you, while at the Ministry of Health there is even a spill in the field of health. Here, however, you place yourself on some of the dots and branches, although it is quite clear that it is quite clear how verification would take place. We also talked about the problem of protecting personal data and about the need to be careful here. But citizens and citizens also have insight into our bank accounts, because every asset situation we have to supply annually, and that is personal data. But that's the way it is. We've decided on such functions in the country. I think that testing for illicit drugs has also benefited; I will not be like a colleague of the Girl who does not separate harmful substances and illicit drugs, because every drug has a harmful substance, but we are talking about illicit drugs. We know, and it is true, that we are living in a time of collapse of values, of a general nature, that the increase in the use of drugs in all areas is at all levels. Or maybe it would be right for this to start with us. It is therefore entirely unnecessary to ensure that the problems of the SDS are concerned. We're the ones who propose this law. We want a lot. We have no problem with that. Apparently, some others are looking for them where they don't exist. You mentioned some frauds and connections with our former fellow Member. Look, that's his problem. He will answer that question five years ago, if the tests today are the answer to that question. That's not our problem right now. Our problem is whether we want to settle the matter transparently and in a way that each of us can do it once in a row if there is no short term, which we have experienced in recent years, or not. You know what the worst part is? The saddest part was the discussion of colleague Bojana Muršič. She talked about the fact that the law was not only unacceptable, she used expressions that it was our client's business, that it was problems of our kind. And that is what the Member of Parliament, who, in my opinion, is my personal opinion, should no longer be sitting here because she cheated because she stole public finances. Of course, she resigned as Vice-President of the National Assembly, but the Member is still. And now she explains that our marriage is unacceptable, humiliating to the state. But what could be more humiliating than finding you in fraud and still accepting laws in the National Assembly? And even laws that are supposed to prevent fraud. Then let's go. This also comes from the SD, which have an office for equal opportunities. They have the Ministry of Labour, Family and Equal Opportunities. And let me remind you, this was specifically, Mrs Muršič, a respected woman who came from internationalism, what was going on with your president, the young man and the girls at that camp. So you run the department, and you have an office. If it wasn't the other way around, at least you wouldn't be reading that position, it'd be more hygienic. It would be more hygienic. Even if it's 200 euros, 100 euros, for white shirts, red shirts, it's a fact, I think you're the last one to say that this law is a humiliation for citizens. And now I'm going to tell you again when you're back. It's humiliating for me to be friends with someone who's been caught cheating. What do we want with this marriage? Like I said, it's simple. We are in favour of this or not being in front of citizens, not for us, I will not, for example, do this for my colleague Horvath or for my colleague Jani Möderndorfer, but for the electorate and the electorate to show whether we are ready to be tested. Not when it seems to us, not after a period of time, but when a particular commission is set up to do so. Do not look for reasons and problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Slovenian Democratic Party is a solid party, it is on this floor for years and years. There are some problems for us that Mr Trcek should not have to deal specifically with our election or with our work. They have a lot of problems in their ranks, since they can't even hold a congress without almost getting the police to intervene. Your Honor, everything else is ballast, it's a distance from the problem. And the problem is that there's an increase in drugs. Drugs pose a risk to the individual, to the group in which it operates and to society as a whole. If it is in your interest to show our citizens that this is a risk and concern that is superfluous, then you will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u31	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor. Get ready, mags. Bojana Muršič and Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much, President. I'm always disappointed when we talk about things and we don't agree first on the alphabet what we're really talking about. Because in the end, those who listen and follow such a session or such a discussion get a kind of mixed feeling, either talking about things we don't know about, or inventing things from the outside a little bit; or we have another, a third scenario that he doesn't even know about, but in the end he doesn't know much. But he knows it's happening in the National Assembly. When SDS proposes some kind of marriage, first I joke, when it was a similar law, and always look at the text to see how and for what purpose a thing was written. In this marriage, of course, we all initially thought that it was a problem that they had with their former member of their colleagues, Chuš, and they had to somehow close the story; above all, wash themselves before the public if they had a relationship to drugs in their client cleared to the end. Moreover, they even propose something that they already know in advance will not be accepted, because half of the things in it are not legal, but that the matter will be clean, clear, make sure that in the parliamentary procedure they go first to the hearing, where there is no need for an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which would already be clearly defined and very clearly stated where the grey shadows and the sides of this law are. If we looked at the basic law that was once in Parliament, we could see that it was literally copied from here. This excitement of Mr Trčko, who did not know whether they were under the influence of substances when they were writing, because inside things that apply for another period are constantly worsening GDP and so on. This was from 2011, when we all know what happened then or another year earlier. It happened that they had a problem with then interior minister Kresalova and they made her go so far and, this is my personal opinion, even agreed to the stupidest step. And that's when she went to test herself. For the public's sake, she had her hair tested to prove she wasn't really a drug addict. This is constant for a customer who likes to spit out and plant some half-truths and force you to defend yourself against the public in one way or another, on all sorts of whims to keep your good name. The ministers of Kresal and the law could not prove it, but they did something else. If you read the law carefully, you will see that they literally copy the text at the beginning of the explanation. And they come to Alexander Lucius on the other hand, and then this passage has been released since then by Minister Kresalov, and they throw him out and continue with the general debate on how dangerous drugs are, which is again copied from the original law. What am I trying to say? They have not even worked so hard to improve their initial proposal for a law, nor have they done so. Okay, well, we know these manners, but it is imperative for the Slovenian public to say this that we understand what we are really discussing. One of the main reasons they state why this law was tabled is, and they say out loud, because of the public. And that's what they keep saying in their debates, that the public has the right to know a lot about officials. In this case, especially those who sit opposite them have in mind, because they are convinced of themselves that they are clean, healthy, elegant, smart, modern, new customers, in terms of the news they bring to our space. To make this law easier to discuss, certain things need to be explained. What is really drugs or what is really allowed in our legal order, and what are human rights? The use of drugs and psychotropic substances is not legally prohibited, and they know this well, it is not prohibited. But something else is forbidden. “With regard to the fundamental human right to privacy, this law cannot be prohibited. People can operate freely with their own lives, until we interfere with the privacy of others, we harm society as a whole and the country. Longer and uncontrolled use of increasing amounts of illicit drugs, abuse can lead to serious health problems, social problems (e.g. The inability of productive work, resulting unemployment), crime etc.« This is quoted from the Ministry of the Interior, published in Bulletin 1/1998, on page 22 in order to know where I draw these facts from. Today, it has been repeatedly said that the police can test a lot of things. Forgive me, a disproportionate intervention into human rights is also a test of something that you disagree with; for the law is clear, as far as that is concerned. Let's go in one order. The officer stops the driver and has the feeling, in his own opinion, that he could be under the influence of psychoactive substances, alcohol or anything. Of course, determine your control, it's a test, which, look at the fraction, the driver rejects. And he has every right to reject it. Then take him and escort him to a healthcare professional or a doctor who, after examination and following a procedure clearly defined, orders the collection of blood. And look at the fracture, the patient rejects it. You're not gonna believe this. The police are there, and there's nothing they can do. And the doctor decides to take the urine. And the same driver decides to reject it. And what's left for the doctor? To assess, on the basis of his expertise, that there is a suspicion of being influenced by certain substances based on psychophysical conditions. He writes all of this in a form, sends it to forensics, and, look at the fraction, they have nothing to determine whether it is true or not; but they rely on some word of a doctor who has just assessed what he can do. And now you want to check this out at some current point in the officer's office within this procedure. What the procedure will look like, however, will be determined by those who know it. I'm asking you nicely, where's the legal protection? What if the results aren't correct? What will the one who will be tested refer to in this case? No, we're just going to publish, and then let him look for justice where he wants it, because he's already screwed. In short, as many open and vague things as they are in your marriage, it is more than clear that such a law cannot be matured for a serious debate to be held in this national assembly. The definition of a functionary, you have serious problems what a functionary is. Now you've brought in a little of the judges, that the judges are also officials and they could be reviewed. In the law you define very clearly who is the official in this case, and write: “The members of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, ministers and secretaries of state are under this law.” Pika. I no longer see any judge forward, and now you repeat one immeasurable incomprehensibility in order to deal with the judges as well. You can't do that. Tell the judge he's an officer. Yes, the official is in the sense of the judicial branch of power to act as a judge, not as an official. In the following, you use the word relationship of a political official all the time. So it is more than clear that the judge is not in this circle, so stop selling and convincing people that this will also apply to judges. And even if it did, it's already wrong for political officials, let alone judges. Because that would really suit you, because you'd be sending every judge to the test. The next thing that seems very important to me is, when you say, the appropriateness of the law. You said you weren't insulting to anyone. Sorry, something must have happened to you guys when you were young. Do you have any unpleasant experiences because you bring this gay lobby all the time? I don't know where you made it up, and you even bring it into the marriage and you're sure it's a gay-cocaine bond. I don't know where you got this, you don't have any evidence of it either, but you probably have a bad experience in life, I guess, I don't know, I'm making it up because I can't really have another clue or I can't have an explanation. Then you speak, the information we give to review the assets of the officials is public. That's not true. They're only public if you expose them. Otherwise, KPK must protect them carefully, and they are not public and do not say that they are public. But before the elections, you can tell yourself what kind of car you have, how much money you have in your account, and so on, and so on, you've decided to tell the public why. I'll bring you up to speed on one more thing. You say it would be nice if we tested all the officials and then published it on the website. For God's sake, why aren't you our model?Oh, my God! Why don't you do it yourself now in a political party? Why don't you test yourself on your SDS website that you're not under the influence of drugs? This disproportionateity is truly incredible, which you only have when you suggest it, which, by the way, you know will never be accepted. However, in defence and protection to show that you are under the definition of the good, right-wing right-wing, you have your EPP contribution in such a way as to propose such a law. What I think is important to mention is that yesterday the government adopted a regulation and placed the hemp plant in another group, which means that people can use it for treatment, depending on if they are sick for anything. This is a controlled method, which is very clearly described, not to explain to you in detail. However, if someone were to be tested after this proposal, another other information should be disclosed in this way, as it would have been found that hemp is enjoying, namely that he is sick. Is it really the right of every citizen to know what I'm doing, you, all of us?Oh, my God! This is disclosure and excessive interference in individual personal data. That is why I find this extremely unrealistic and reckless proposal, which you are proposing. You also state that the Constitutional Court has already ruled on this. I have two decisions before me of the Constitutional Court which discuss the intervention of officials or those who perform public functions. In both cases where it has decided and rejected the complaint because it has assessed that more opportunities for officials to disclose certain particular facts are allowed, they do not talk anywhere about drug use; they talk about data on RTV for certain articles. And you mixed it up like pears and apples, and you say the Constitutional Court ruled on it. Please quote the decision, the number, exactly where this is mentioned, and we will continue to talk. You also mention countries where it is, and you list three countries where so-called voluntary testing is concerned, but it is not yet clearly defined there; and one country, Canada, where in your explanation you do not mention in a single word how this process is proceeding. And you know it would be a kind of first country to introduce such testing, I'm talking about democratic countries, not some other country where they're incarcerated, but they're just testing it for real, so that it's true. The goal is only one way to lead to the point that you have as much loot as possible and that you can always continue to claim a significant and beautiful sentence: We have proposed, but the National Assembly was against. He was against it. Otherwise, I would have, but they won't. They're defending themselves, they're afraid of something. I'm sorry, but you don't say one essential thing to suggest an unconstitutional, illegal and extremely stupid thing. It's a really stupid thing because you're interfering with things that you seem to have no idea about or are really making a fool of yourself to the end and to the extreme. It's an unreasonable act. I will conclude with one thing: when you want to wash your guilt, you simply put mud on the fan and spray it all over the room, that it falls all over; and thus you will blur out who really is guilty. I am interested in this question because my colleague Bah spoke before me, and I am interested when we learned about this event around my colleague Chuš and so on. I'm sorry, buddy. You hear I have to mention this, but they produced it, because if you want to, you'll say it yourself. But why didn't colleague Bah, when colleague Chuš introduced her to an event that was the basis for us talking about it today, report it to the police immediately. Where is this honesty now?Oh, my God! Why didn't she do it herself? Why didn't she do it? That's what I keep asking myself. Here remains the shadow of doubt, which should be dealt with by the Slovenian Democratic Party, I certainly will not. And I'm not going to listen to this crazy, stupid, baseless and uncreditable debate anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u33	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. My friend Jani, you don't have to listen and deal with us. The law is proposed. I'm a little surprised by your ignorance of the procedure. We know that this is at first reading; but it is not surprising that you are an eternal young messenger, because you are making all the time and obviously do not understand the procedures. But I was surprised because you know a lot about this matter, and you'll be very useful in continuing the procedure when the law in those details needs to be improved. You know, it's possible to set up a lot of things at first reading and then it's being complemented, even for individual officials and so on. There's no problem here. I will also respond to the representative of Desus, who talked a lot about how it would be more useful to talk about alcohol. I agree, I think that my colleague Jani will also bring a proposal to the parliamentary summit in the future on how to speed up the sale of alcohol at certain events. At that time, we will also be able to discuss this much more. I am pleased, however, that he is also very well aware of the subject of drugs and that he will be useful in the discussion below.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u35	Replica, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u36	My friend Daniel, you misunderstood me. In the part where you explain how I know the drills and the fact that I know what's going to happen next. This is where you misunderstood me. I'm sure we won't have this sequel. And I made that very clear. There will be no continuation, as this will end today. However, I mentioned that I understand your political skills, why you brought, if you could, because normally the law is sent after a reduced procedure and we would go to the committee. [[…]] Because if we came to the committee, the Legislative and Legal Service should draw up an opinion and position on the law itself, which would literally tear up this law on these grounds and on those grounds that you have. And in fact, I have commended you for your political skill, not to turn my words. But I understand and allow the fact that you misunderstood me. Thank you very much for your explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u37	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you for this additional explanation. We have proposed the law by normal procedure, because whenever we propose meaningful laws dealing with specific matters, and then we come into the process also in terms of shorter and urgent procedures, it is usually found within the procedure that the Law-Legal Service does not have as many comments as you are now alerting, but that a coalition of such procedures does not go through. Therefore, it is wiser to follow the normal procedure, which is common in democracy, and that you, as experts of the matter below, help to make the marriage better.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u39	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I'm sorry I didn't come forward with a procedural proposal earlier, because today we're talking about drugs, drug testing, not personal cases. Since I was away at that time, I must say that I expected you, Madam President, to protect my integrity, because my colleague Bah actually exposed me, even condemned me. Although these proceedings are under way, the prosecution is doing its job. And that then colleague Bah knows more than we do here, and as it turns out, she's a judge, a prosecutor, and I don't know what else. This is where I really expected you to protect me. But since we're talking about drugs today, I'd focus on drugs, even though I didn't want to talk. I think drugs are a really big problem. I think that we should take some preventive action, or even in the National Assembly of the Health Committee, to discuss this in order to make young people aware that this is actually not good. But I can't say that just drugs, alcohol is a big problem, so it would make a lot of sense to talk about it. It is true that each individual must clean up his or her own affairs of what illicit substances he or she is dealing with, and then take on his or her responsibility. I don't have any trouble with that either, going to drug, alcohol or anything. I don't have a problem. However, this law, which is proposed, which is identical to that of 2011, is, of course, explained in the introductory part, which has been slightly changed in relation to all things, to the actual problem that we now have. It then has some changes in its transitional and final provisions. I don't think it's right and you'd need serious verification. Even if I were to take part in the Legislative and Legal Service, as I have already mentioned in the position of the Group of Members, it is defined only for individual groups of officials. This should also include local officials and I think there are major problems here. I think that really every party and individual must continue to clear up their own affairs or the problems they face and then propose a law that would apply to everyone. Once again, however, I do not want to avoid any testing if it contributes to objective, transparent, thinking or adopting legislation, and there is no problem. But now, because of the law we are talking about today, we are diverting attention from those things that are really problematic; we have long waiting periods in health and I think this is a key problem. It would therefore be more important to focus on these key problems that are currently in society. Not only do we have long waiting periods, but we have pensioners living from day to day, including young people who do not have jobs, it would be very wise and meaningful to discuss these problems and adopt suitable laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u41	Before we go any further, because it was obvious to me. I found you're a debater and you can defend yourself and defend yourself. However, this moment also flies on a personal level and it is very difficult to prevent it. And as long as you have a chance to defend yourself, I really think you can defend yourself first, and then we can move on or I will defend you that moment if you don't have any more time; as I usually do with other officials, if necessary. Now he has the word, Mr. Andrej Chuš. Prepare Mr Marijan Pojbič and Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. At the beginning of the debate on this bill, I would like to see several discussers of coalition parliamentary groups talking about how many other problems we have in Slovenia that we could discuss today. You have also mentioned the situation of young people many times, the unemployment of young people. I would ask you, representatives of all three coalition groups, where were you yesterday when a proposal for a recommendation on the inclusion of young people in the Economic and Social Council was discussed. As a proposal for this recommendation, I expected a full and broad debate, as well as support for this proposal, and we finally found that a handful of Members and Members could be counted on one hand from the coalition. If we've turned the record around since yesterday, let's set up a mirror and be consistent and do what we say, let's do it. As far as this proposal is concerned, I will say that if we were a developed, modern democracy, where some values would be valid, then such laws would not be necessary. However, I agree with this principle because, in accordance with the legislation already in force, a lot of people can be tested at the workplace in order to be able to do so also for officials; not only for politicians, but we should take everything into account. As far as this video is concerned, the attempt to discredit or my political liquidation. This is now the responsibility of the competent authorities. In the final stage, this person who posted this video on Twitter abused someone and also took her identity and then posted it on Twitter. This person, whose picture was also stolen, reported it to the police, I think to the Police Administration in Ljubljana. This will now be handled by the police and other authorities. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sure you'll see who's behind this personally. And I, what to say, I've already told you about it in the media and everywhere. [[…]] When I was in the media, when some Members called for me to respond to the testing, I immediately did so. I also have a copy of the report before me, which I did on February 13th at the Institute of Forensic Medicine. It is a very simple process, costing 50 euros, but I think this is a small thing compared to what we pay and what values we promote. Perhaps I would say only because I have already said enough in the media to support the proposal in principle, but it needs to be refined and improved in the legislative process if there is sufficient support for it. In the end, I would also like to thank all the citizens and citizens who wrote letters of support to me in trying this discredit and stood by me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u43	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Prepare to be Mrs Eva Irgle and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u44	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Initially, I must say that I am in favour of the law we have drawn up in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I don't have any problems getting tested, or I have shorter hair, but even if they need three, four or five, there's no problem. Although I have little hair on my head, there's still enough to run the test. I must also say this that the testing would absolutely pay itself in any case, so that it would not go a cent to the state budget or to the costs of our taxpayers and taxpayers. It bothers me very much, today this debate has gone far beyond what is stated in this bill. Most of all, we have heard about how in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are awkward, incompetent, we know nothing, everything we do, we are only doing to work on obtaining votes and so on. Among other things, it has been said that we have, as a candidate, a problem in our own kind in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot control the situation in our own kind, we are disappointed in our underage in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to make order in our own kind and so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues! All the parties sitting in this National Assembly, but now I will use the Turmin Coalition plus the United Left, I am sure that you have 999% more problems in your own kind than we have in the Slovenian Democratic Party. 999% more problems. We have no problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party with a preteen. No problem. And the fact is that this law was by no means written and intended to deal with today in this national assembly of any individual Member. It was exclusively written in order to truly make those we have seen and must be and should be a mirror to the Slovenian people, let us do this and prove that we are first among the first. Personally, I find it very difficult to convince because I have a view of drugs, absolutely zero tolerance for drugs, whatever. I must say that I personally have a problem with this — to dealers and also to those who take these illicit drugs. Why? Look what's going on with these people. They stay on the streets, they die on the streets. Look at you. That's the world's problem. Drugs are a global problem, not only global, but also Slovenian, extremely large! But this is where we close our eyes. We close our eyes here, and we don't even look the problem in the eyes, which is extremely big. Take a look at what's going on between young people, go to school a little bit. Go look at how many needles there are lying around, and that's in the middle of elementary school, so I don't talk in high school, so I don't keep talking. And if we are not here as a mirror in the National Assembly, the representatives of our people, logically, then the young and the elderly react as they respond. They're expecting a mirror from us. Once again, this law is not written to discredit anyone, but is written solely to set a mirror for Slovenian citizens and citizens. We're like the highest legislative branch of power. And if that is the case, then all these discussions and these extremely rude and offensive attacks on the Slovenian Democratic Party are absolutely unfounded, without any argument. And this was today an attempt to discredit the Slovenian Democratic Party, and this was a shameful attempt by those people who probably have major problems with themselves. [[..]] Those who have already replaced and sowed the minds of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has practically remained in the Slovenian political space from Slovenia to today; which is the only political party that has remained in the Slovenian political space since then. It is said that he works well, works well, works responsibly, so he gets votes in every election. Instant customers who come to Parliament once, and then they're gone; please. You can't compare the Slovenian Democratic Party with those parties because we don't even get a finger on our foot. Slovenian citizens and citizens have given their vote to the Slovenian Democratic Party because they believe and trust it; although this, I will say, left-wing falange has tried to prevent the Slovenian Democratic Party from taking over the leadership of this country, even when they have imprisoned our President Janez Janša. And what happened to this mess at the Constitutional Court?Oh, my God! All those who have been involved in this in any way may be ashamed of you and never again say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we do some things wrong, irresponsible and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we know that if we have tabled this bill, we have tabled it with the purpose that I have mentioned earlier today. I think and expect that, for this reason, this law in question will also be approved at first reading or will go to second reading, where it can be completed and completed, and all those things that are incomplete in the law will be changed so as to make it acceptable also constitutionally, legally and all that is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u45	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Prepare Mr Jože Tanko and Mrs Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The law that we have before us today does not need to be debated and distributed for much longer, for the purpose of the law is clear and unequivocal. It's mandatory and it's a random test of drug-prohibited officials. An employer in the private and public sector may at any time require an employee to be tested for illicit drugs; even if there is no indication that someone is under the influence of illicit drugs. But if he does, that's even more. This is also important because, at times, a person’s name can be overlayed, but it has nothing to do with it, and it is totally unjustifiable. Only officials in the executive branch and in the legislative branch of government and the President of the State are excluded from such random drug testing. In my view, in the debate and also in my opinion, a purely justifiable debate and reflection on the possibility that the judicial branch of the authorities should be included in this test, but I think that this can be improved during the procedural procedure in the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are doing, at least in my opinion, a very difficult job, which is also very responsible; and voters have the right to know or should have an insight into whether the official is doing his job under the influence of illicit drugs, as it is necessary to know that under such circumstances there can also be interesting decisions, in particular, here I warn if these are such important functions as that of the President of the Government and the President of the State. It is the President of the State who sets up and must also take care of the interests of his own country on the outside. What if such a person is under the influence of illicit drugs when deciding on such important issues? Let's talk about the arbitration procedure. What if such a person is under the influence of drugs? How, then, can we know that such decisions have arisen under a sober state or under another condition?Oh, my God! The same applies to the President of the Government and the same applies to Members and Members of the National Assembly. Thus, as colleagues have already said, the way and the test procedure is precisely defined, defines the consequences if an individual, when randomly chosen, does not decide or reject the test. The law also makes it clear that these tests should be published in the end. Here I must be fair and fair, I personally realize that this may also be an intervention in privacy, in human integrity; but I believe that, given that employers in the private sector and also in the public sector can at any time require a review of their employee with regard to the testing of illicit drugs, the right to transparency and transparency over the right to privacy is, in the case of an official, a right of transparency and transparency over the right to privacy. In this sense, I think we should think about why it is necessary to also approach officials and their transparency in this way. I had an action myself years ago entitled Life is nice, with a sport against drugs. I'm an athlete myself, I've passed a few half marathons, and now I'm running a little less, but still. At that time, I thought it appropriate to warn young people about how important it is to see what drugs or traps can bring; and that it is more important to reach out for sport than on drugs. Personally, this law, which provides for mandatory and random testing of drug-prohibited officials, will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Marko Ferruga. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. We can say nothing new. As far as the government's approach to the coalition is concerned, when we put anything into the legislative process, the story repeats itself — incomplete, inappropriate, inadequate, non-systematic, unconstitutional and so on. That's what the government says, that's what the coalition MPs are saying. Which of these really stands and which of these is true only if we allow the law to be further examined. At that time, it will be possible for us to get an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which will determine or recommend where any improvements in the law should be made, what needs to be complemented. The government will also be able to draw up an amendment if it does its best. If a law with these supplements is adopted, then only constitutional judgment can be taken. The Constitutional Court will decide whether or not the law is established. This cannot be summed up in the debate of Jani Möderndorfer or any other Member of this National Assembly. Members of Parliament are not a person who we judge in advance whether it is constitutionality or unconstitutionality. Let's leave it. And if the coalition has sufficient confidence to confirm these statements you are speaking here, then make it possible to take the next step. And after you've completed your marriage, you'll be next to accept it. And if you are not satisfied, let him be tested at the Constitutional Court. These are steps. Such flat-rate evaluations continue to be irresponsible and even in a demeaning way. All those in the coalition that you discussed about this law, that it is inappropriate, I just wonder how you could give signatures for the amendment of the alcohol law, where there are explicit provisions on the possibility of alcohol being used. What you have proposed to Jani Möderndorfer as the first to sign and 29 other SMC Members speaks precisely about this. Six, seven Members have not signed. But this law speaks solely of extending the possibility of alcohol consumption even where it has now been banned. That's it. None were disturbed, nor were those Members who spoke on behalf of the modern centre Party's Group of Members and are also among the signatories to this amendment of the law, which is now being discussed. People who sign a proposal that is diametrically opposed to the title of the law are now teaching us whether we have done something right or wrong or whether we have prepared a proposal that is comprehensive or not. It's scandalous for anyone to afford something like that. I am interested – because obviously this law on the extension of the possibility of alcohol consumption will be adopted, given the number of signatures, probably even those who have not signed it – what we will then do. Some doctors didn't sign it, logically. But I would expect some doctors to publicly support our proposal for a law that is not harmful, which improves the situation in the political part of society, if not elsewhere, in the functional part of society. It's a preventive law. And I feel as if the Ministry's representative here is talking so vehemently about what's wrong with this law; as if you are a systematic advocate of the use of drugs in public life. If I turn your story around, what you've said here, then you're the ones who protect you who defend the use of drugs in public life; for all of us who are here, and for those who are covered by this law, as well as those who might still have to. This person hardly understands that such a proposal is a law that certainly means improvement in a particular area which may or may already be a problem, including in this part concerning the non-observance of the coalition for such a proposal. That's hard for a man to understand. On the one hand, you are a proponent of extending the use of one type of drug, and on the other hand you prevent the other kind of drug from being confused or allowed. Because of me, it can be system control, regular annual, it can be three months, it doesn't bother me, it can be random, it can be based on stratified or some other sampling. I don't mind. Clearly, the problem in this part is present and, therefore, the coalition with all four melts down and also uses terrible terms as regards constitutionality, legality, human rights or not. If you have to meet a certain requirement for a job, carry out a medical examination, a prior or regular system, this is not a violation of human rights. This law does not constitute a violation of human rights if we introduce control or testing of drug-prohibited officials. It is the employer’s responsibility to have a capable army at any time where it is needed, in the government, in the national assembly or elsewhere. We recently had the case of an official sitting at that government desk where no one wanted to see anything. Some who were close enough wrote that they smelled of alcohol or something else. Nobody wanted to see anything. All the officials of the National Assembly who were sitting at the last table of the meeting saw nothing, nothing unusual. They didn't specify anything. In this way to protect and share the National Assembly or the officials of ours and yours, it is irresponsible. It's also incorrect. Someone immediately gives a reminder of an exclamation given during the session or when he greets people on the balcony; for others who exercise here and who cannot even speak fluently, they are hit in one way or another, but there is no fault in him. I'm talking about Minister Klemenčič, there will be no misunderstanding. And when you open up the subject, let's say at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly, everything is done to minimize this matter. That's the problem. And if you are not already able in the National Assembly to ensure the control of officials arriving in the National Assembly, then the work is not carried out. I don't get involved in how this happened and why, but it's scandalous. What Minister Klemenčič did in this term is just one of his strange acts, which he did as Minister of the National Assembly. There have been examples of previous mandates that some other ministers have had problems with substances that have been hospitalized and have performed important functions, and no one has been disturbed. At that time we also proposed a law to make some corrective control over officials. And I don't understand what the problem is. As if we have an elite right to come to work on drugs, burns, or otherwise hit. Do we have that right? We don't have that right. If we do not have it, then this law should not be a problem for anyone to support or adopt it. With regard to the concerns about the content of the law, which you have expressed to all those who have followed the Government's opinion. The task of anyone in this National Assembly is to present their views and also their proposals for improvements in the way we are treated. Proposals for improvements. The government did not come to the National Assembly with a different view, as did the Priori against. And those who debated on behalf of the coalition in the positions of the parliamentary groups or when you had debates also responded to a priori against; without analysing, finding, saying: We will complement this, this is too little completed and so on. The purpose of this stage of the procedure is precisely to determine, after discussion, whether the law can be supplemented by such a text, which is submitted, or whether it should be laid down on other grounds and completed. If we want to find out, it must approach the legislative proposals proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, ruling proactively, not defensively, not defensively, not demeaningly; but proactively, with some ambition to help improve the process. The same applies to coalitions. You're all kind of dealing with the Chuš case. Whatever it was. If there's another procedure going on, it'll come to light. But this question has been open for five or six years since we first filed it. It's been open for so long, no one's ever done it again, there's probably some deep reasons in the government coalition that you don't want to do it; and there are also deep reasons why you don't support this proposal. Probably the same as for all the other proposals we have tabled in the legislative process. Always the last paragraph is the one who says - non-systematic, non-complete. Under the law passed by Jani Möderndorfer, you will not find this to be harmful to non-systematic, non-integrity, health, to endanger young people, to encourage young people to drink at sports events. Those who signed the law probably didn't. This law, which limits some things, is now a problem that needs to be stopped. This is said not to be talked about in this country, taboo darkness. Tabu theme are drugs among officials. I think that this law should be allowed to be further examined, that there should also be an open debate on the Committee, that there should also be another professional and civil public, including another civil public, and that there should be an attempt to identify improvements to where the law can be improved, find better solutions and lead to a hearing at the next plenary meeting of the National Assembly. Such rejection approaches do not contribute to any improvement in this society. My human rights are confused with other human rights, and I don't see any problem here that we don't. And there's one more thing. Earlier, it had also been said that many would rather deal with a topic other than the one now on the agenda. We've been waiting for health reform for two years. This law is part of the health system, part of the health problems, it is part of the health problems. The law, proposed by Jani Möderndorfer as the first to sign, on the extension of alcohol consumption is part of health problems. But there is no other legislation that the Ministry has been promising since I don't know when. When the Minister of Health's intervention was in November or December of the month, you arrived with a date to submit a health reform. What did you do at that time in the coalition? What has the government done, Madam Secretary of State? Have you submitted anything serious and presented it to the Slovenian public, except that it goes in some way beyond the procedures and coordinations with which no one is satisfied. Not a single term given by the Minister and not a single deadline given jointly by the Minister of Health and the President of the Government holds. None of this is done. None of this is done. On the contrary; those who propose to do something in the field of health care, health care, health care, we are troubled, we are discredited. Those who suggest improvements in alcohol drinking are likely to be commended. I don't know. You're taking this health care and everything that's got to do with it. Our proposal for a law is in no way contrary to health ethics or health standards or health goals. This law is in no way contrary to this. On the contrary, he supports all these things. All things related to the negative consequences of drugs are covered by this law, although only for the functional part is done, minimises. Not one of these is expanding, is accelerating; and this is not enough for the Ministry of Health. Once the Ministry has drawn up a law, when it has actually taken a positive step towards improving the health system, we will certainly support it. It's just, for the first time, that's the kind of law that needs to be prepared. Such a law must also be tried and motivated by another part of the profession, public life, civil society and so on. In the way that this is done, it is likely that we will not blindly see any positive changes in our lives. Also, there are other things that could be discussed, even today, we just have to put an end to the agenda. The Ministry solves health reform problems by deleting five laws from the normative programme that it will not submit each year. It's a health reform. They make a list first, I mean, 20 laws and 25 acts, don't do anything, next year it's only 15 more, and third year it's only 9 more. This is the health reform that we are witnessing in this mandate. Nothing else is going on. If you don't believe me, I'm not saying the numbers are right now, but that's how it happens, exactly. And if the term of office is not over quickly, you will realize everything from the normative programme of the first year that you gave, by deleting all laws and not putting them on the list. This is the approach – erasure of records; as in the case of unemployed people, moving from records to records, deleting, changing names, statuses and so on. That's what we're talking about. In order not to delay, I suggest that you reconsider our proposal for a law and then, through the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, through the opinions of others who will be invited to the meeting, add to the matter. We are counting on a positive government approach as well as a positive coalition approach; to give one another something that will somehow be universally accepted will stand and will make a small contribution to what the government does not do, that is to say to health reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Nina Pirnat, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much. In the beginning, very briefly on some matters which were extremely important for the Ministry of Health. An analysis of the entire health system in Slovenia, which was first prepared in full parallel, produced and also adopted a Resolution on the National Health Plan 2016-2025, which we are now preparing, adopting or having already adopted. We pay special attention all the time to public health. A law on the limitation of tobacco products adopted by this Parliament has just been adopted and is one of the most advanced laws we have. We need to know that this law also limits what we are talking about today, it is the use of harmful substances that cause dependence. This means that the Ministry pays a great deal of attention to banned substances and harmful substances that cause dependence. As you just mentioned, the Health and Health Insurance Act ended with a public debate on 19 March. There is now intensive coordination or negotiation with the social partners of the Economic and Social Council, where individual chapters are critically assessed, evaluated and complemented. And all the opinions from the public debate that have come, from article to article, are viewed and also coordinate that we will get a really good system law after more than 24 years. In addition, the law on patient rights, which goes into interdepartmental coordination, also concluded the public debate. The views on the law on quality and safety were presented and produced, but this is not the subject of debate today. I'm only stressing because that was mentioned. With regard to the law before us, I have already explained to you exactly what are the medical and technical difficulties in carrying out testing, interpreting test results. Earlier, we were told why we went into such detail; we did not go into detail. I felt obliged to explain this because I'm a doctor because I'm a public health professional and I know that. It is right that the public understands what we are talking about, what we are testing, how difficult or how inappropriate or even misleading the results could be interpreted. Only from my medical profession did I comment on that. Further, as regards the possible constitutionality assessment. In Slovenia, drug law and policy are regulated in accordance with the three United Nations Conventions in the field of drugs and other international legal acts binding on all Member States and consistent with the guidelines of the Council of Europe and the European Union. The United Nations Conventions on Drugs do not regulate the testing of illicit drugs in individual or specific groups of the population. This is neither the Council of Europe acts nor the European Union action plan in this area. As a result of the constitutionally protected principle of the protection of privacy and personal rights, Article 35 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks of this right, which also refers to the inviolability of physical and mental integrity and of individual privacy within the framework of personal rights. And on the basis of the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, comprehensive protection of personal rights is ensured. An intervention in the field of protection of privacy also includes the compulsory collection of blood, forced vaccination, which is never carried out by arrest and vaccination, as well as medical intervention in general, which could result in the proposed regulation proposed in this law, in the assessment of the constitutionality of the provisions, if an individual refuses a medical examination of the presence of illicit drugs in the body. In the event of a rejection of the test, as you say, the result of an individual would be considered positive, which could be rejected only by new testing. Here we have some negation of negation, which is virtually impossible to interpret; in addition, it could be controversial in accordance with European rules and with our constitution, certain rules. As a result, we have pointed out in such detail the problems this law has.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I expect a positive approach from the Ministry. I do not agree that you as an agent of the government are operating with some conditioners – you could, could, could. Let's do it, work hard, prepare the amendments, and we'll do it so easy. I do not agree with such an approach when a state official of any rank or official works only to say what cannot be done that he will not do. A reverse approach is expected from the government to engage all its expertise, knowledge it has, and to make the matter impossible, a negative influence; but to make it positive. For all our laws that we put into the legislative process, what you say is exactly what you say — could cause, negative and unconstitutional and so on. Why are you doing this? If we adopt the law now, you have until the next month and a half to study all things and do solutions. If there's something missing from us, you'll fix it. If you are a doctor, you will define the procedure. There are quite a few of you in that building on Stefan, and even a little bit wider, you have the Institute for Health Protection and so on. You can do all of that if you want, if you like. But the easiest thing to do is to come here in four, five hours, when the point lasts, take some time and talk about what you can't do. That is why we are where we are, in all areas. You spoke before about the law on restricting the consumption of tobacco products. But this law that we proposed is essentially similar. It's affecting an area that needs to be addressed urgently. If the law regulates that those of us who run for public office have to carry out health checks, then we will do them. I've got to make a systematic one every now and then, but it's not a violation of human rights. And you didn't say anything to hurt anyone. This belongs to this category of mandatory checks, which can be carried out by random selection, may be carried out by lot. And your job is to eliminate, propose improvements, and take all of this into account in the legislative process. Such a prioritising negative approach is harmful, not only for today's point of view, not only for health issues, but also for all topics so far in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Then we will move on to the conclusion in which you will receive the word again from the representative of the Government and the representative of the proposer. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Hello, Secretary of State! We know what this marriage was about. I wonder why now and not before. But if I use military terminology, it's some sort of defensive blurry reaction to make this affair out of which this concern and this marriage came. If we are talking only about the National Assembly, I think drugs are not as much a problem as alcohol; and there is more to find. It's very media-like, there's a lot of pretty talk, there's a lot of talk, and in fact, the question is whether it's really honest. I don't know if that makes any sense. Why am I saying this? Because those who have consumed drugs and alcohol so far will continue to do so, and I think we are all aware, even if we make these laws, those who intend to violate them will be in breach of them anyway. However, I absolutely agree that we, as Members of Parliament, must be exemplary, not only in this law, but also in all other laws. If we are talking about these matters, how should legislative matters be defined or not. I have an excerpt from the Law on Safety at Work, Official Gazette 43/11, which states in Article 51: “The worker must not work or be in the workplace under the influence of alcohol, drugs or other prohibited substances. Second point: The worker must not work or be influenced by medicinal products which may affect psychophysical abilities in those jobs where, due to a greater risk of accidents at work, he is so specified by a safety statement with a risk assessment. Third point: The employer shall determine the situation referred to in the first paragraph of this Article by procedure and by way of an internal act of the employer. And fourth point: The employer must be removed from work, from work and from the work process of the worker who worked or was in a position contrary to the provisions of paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article.” It follows from this that it is the employer’s responsibility to ensure safety at work and also for employees in the event of a threat and also in the event of a suspicion of alcohol and drugs. The point of the law, I think, is that we do not make the law because of the law, but that we have these laws, which are and we are trying to improve in this direction, to implement them and to make some better control. If I give my opinion on this proposal, I see the great purgatory of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And when we argue with this debate, perhaps it is best to turn to a slogan. Mrs Irgl said a slogan before, but I have a better one, and I think we will also agree with Mr Pojbic – the best drug is a ball. Rather, let us take part in some charity football and humanitarian events, and we will do much good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. The representative of the Government, Ms Nina Pirnat, shall have the floor, if she wishes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u56	All I'd say is what I started. In all our decisions concerning the use of illicit drugs, we are pursuing the objectives of the National Drug Programme for this period, to reduce and limit the damage to individuals, society and the family by the use of illicit drugs. This also leads to an action plan which regulates individual areas in a way that can be regulated and where it leads to objectives. All the arguments why we believe that the law is impractical, including what was previously exposed, drugs that are eliminated within a few hours cannot be tested after a few days because this should change the functioning of the human body. This is just a specific case, a response to your previous claims. I believe that I have said everything in the introduction, and once again I stress that the Government is opposed to the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. This conclusion of the Ministry's representative pointed out that the law is good to go in the direction of the objectives that you are defending in your resolution, only that the way of testing may not be right. Even in the opening presentation and even through the discussions, it was clear that there was no major opposition in the coalition. The excuses are more about how we will do this, whether this can be done and so on. Probably, if we try and improve the law in the next stages, every thing can be implemented. And also what was last discussed is that some drugs are eliminated immediately and cannot be tested. We are not saying that everything can be tested; it is a step in the right direction to establish a system that allows verification and testing. As I said, in all the debates there was no opposition to this mother or to this law, so I expect that we will also support this law in the first reading, because it is a first reading in particular. We have every opportunity to complement this law with all the concerns you have presented. However, this is certainly a step in the right direction, as we have also understood from the State Secretary's explanation, which spoke of a resolution that advocates restricting the use of drugs. And this law is intended to limit the use of drugs to nothing other than the possibility of influencing the officials who use these drugs. I therefore thank you once again for all the debates and thank you for your support for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. You've got your word. We have not yet spent time, so I ask, on the basis of Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, is there anyone else who would like to discuss? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 8th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 12. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law amending the law on the development of support for the Pomeranian region in the period 2010-2017. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Joseph Horvat requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Eva Stravs Sublog with colleagues; dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the debate on this bill, let me present some figures that some economic indicators show for the pomur region. In 2016, the registered unemployment rate in the Pomur region was 17.4%, with an average unemployment rate of 11.2% in Slovenia. This means that Pomurje is, unfortunately, behind 55.3% of Slovenia's average. In 2016, the average net salary in the Pomur region was €939.81 and on Slovenian average the net salary was €1.030.16. The region of Pomurska is lagging behind net salary in 2016 by 8.8% and, for example, for the Central Slovenian region by 16%. In 2015, GDP per capita in Slovenia was almost €18 000 700 and in the pomur region only €12 000 437, which means that the pomur region is falling by 33.5%, which means one third. In recent years, GDP per capita in the Pomur region has been growing and the share remains strong below Slovenia's average. The data on the situation in the Pomur region are encouraging to some extent. This must also be attributed to the effects of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. However, it is clear that the indicators described are still below average and that the completion of the measures provided for by the law is essential to further improve the situation. The law on development support to the Pomurski region in the period 2010-2015 was adopted by the National Assembly in October 2009. It entered into force on 1 January 2010. The new law adopted in October 2015, i.e. at the time of this government, this coalition and this composition of the National Assembly, extended the implementation of the law until the end of this year, in 2017. Pomeranian Development Support Act 2010-2015 sets the value of the entire Programme for Promoting the Competitiveness of the Pomeranian Region at EUR 33 million. By the end of 2015, some less than €23 million had been paid for activities under the programme. Under the law, funds worth €10 million should therefore be realised in 2016 and 2017. The 2016 budget planned around EUR 4.8 million for the implementation of the law and around EUR 4.2 million for the 2017 budget. Due to the late confirmation of the amendment of the Programme for Promoting the Competitiveness of the Pomeranian Region, the planned realisation of payments for 2016 was only around €2.6 million. Today we have the exact realization of this programme for 2016, that is EUR 2 million 576 thousand 448. This means that for the proper implementation of the law, the budget balance for 2017 should be around €3.4 million higher. Since this problem cannot be rectified within the 2017 budget framework, in New Slovenia we propose a simple and effective solution, namely the extension of the law for one year and the use of the remaining funds in 2018. Yesterday the government supported our proposal for a law or proposed a two-year extension. This is acceptable for us, the proponents, and for Pomurje. In New Slovenia, we expect all Members to take into account the fact that, in order to comply consistently with the Development Support Act, the Pomurska Region is the only way to adopt this bill, thereby extending the implementation of the so-called Pomurska Act for one or two years. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues! When we adopt laws in the National Assembly, it doesn't matter who is the proposer, who wrote the law, who is the first to sign. This is a project, if you want, of the House of Pomura Members, but of course this is a project of the National Assembly, all of us 90; and I expect your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Štravs Podlogar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u62	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for your words. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the possibility of adopting and extending the proposed amendment to the Pomurska Region Development Support Act in the period 2010-2017. The government has decided to support the proposed amendment of the law, but, as has already been said, proposes an extension of the law for two years. In Pomura, it is an encouraging result. The higher unemployment rate than 17% was at the end of last year only in Lendava and Murska Sobota administrative units. More encouraging results must also be attributed to the effects of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. A programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomur region, totalling €33 million, is being implemented in this area. For the full implementation of this programme and in view of the planned implementation this year, we estimate that we should spend another 3.5 million euros over the next two years. In view of the current experience of budgetary capacity and the limited absorption capacity of the region, we propose that the law be extended by two years. In terms of content, the highest part of the funding under the programme was intended to promote initial investment by businesses and create new jobs. So far, 8 calls have been made and 225 contracts signed, which are foreseen in projects in the implementation of 867 jobs have been signed. In parallel with the programme, the following measures were implemented. Under Measure 2 — Employment incentives by the end of 2015 109 employers received a refund of contributions and they hired 427 unemployed persons and 225 taxpayers received a tax relief. Under Measure 3 – The tax relief for investment received a thousand 858 taxpayers by the end of 2015. Under Action 4 – A number of projects have been implemented as a priority for projects from the Pomur region: a project to establish an inter-enterprise education centre of over €2 million. The result was renewed and modernly equipped educational and training facility, the project was completed in February 2015. In the context of the establishment of the Regional Economic Centre, over EUR 20 million was paid by the end of 2015 for three projects of development centres of the Slovenian economy. In the context of investments in the restructuring and enhancement of the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry, as well as of the food processing industry and the diversification of non-agricultural activities, €171 million was paid to investors from the Pomeranian region on all four measures of the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013, or 15% of all funds paid. The Ministry of Environment and Space, together with 27 municipalities, completed the implementation of the Pomurje water supply project totalling EUR 138.5 million. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to point out that, within the framework of limited budgetary options, it is working towards the consistent implementation of the law and programme. In some areas, there is a gradual improvement in the overall economic picture and unemployment in the Pomur region; however, not to the extent that it is necessary for the law to be fully implemented. Since the extension of the law could achieve all the objectives of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the proposal to extend the law by proposing a two-year extension, that is to say until the end of 2019. The total amount of resources allocated by law to the development support of the Pomur region does not change with the proposed amendment. In view of the realisation and evaluation of the funds used so far in 2017, it is envisaged that the full implementation of the funds by law should be provided with State budgets 2018 and 2019 of EUR 3 million 490 000 824. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u64	Dear Members, dear Members, good afternoon! The level of development of the Pomurska region has improved slightly in recent years, thanks to the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region. Compared with indicators such as unemployment rates, wage levels and gross domestic product, the region is still far behind the Slovenian average. That is why in Novi Slovenija we have proposed that the validity of the Law on Development Support of the Pomurska region be extended so that all the measures envisaged can be implemented. Unfortunately, the government has not given much thought to the preparation and adoption of budgetary documents on the future of financing the development support to the Pomur region. At the time of the adoption of the 2017 budget rebalancing, we have already tabled an amendment which has aligned the funds for the implementation of the Development Support Act to the Pomurska region with the provision of the same law, under which the value of the entire programme is set at EUR 33 million. Unfortunately, we were unheard of. As the government coalition has recently forgotten the issue of development support for the pomur region, we have prepared a simple and effective solution in Nova Slovenija: we propose an extension of the period of implementation of the Development Support Act to the Pomurska region for a further year, that is until 31 December 2018. At this time, some 3.4 million euros will have to be provided for the development of Pomurje under the law. The proposed law also imposes on the Government the duty to amend the Programme for Promoting the Competitiveness of the Pomur Region within three months of the entry into force of the law in order to comply with the provisions of this Act. The government has already taken a position in the proposal for a new law in 2015, from which its support for the law so far is clear, in order to take account of the law and to complete the measures envisaged by this law. The last public statement of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also favourable to the content of the New Slovenia proposal, which is certainly encouraging. That is why Christian Democrats expect the government coalition to support our proposal. In Novi Slovenije, we are ready to adopt further amendments to this proposal. According to some forecasts, it has been added that the validity of this law is extended not only by one year, but by two years, which we certainly support in the New Slovenia Group. By proposing this law in New Slovenia, we ensure consistent compliance with the legislation, which will at the same time bring about further strengthening of the development of the Pomur region, increasing its productivity, increasing the number of jobs, reducing unemployment and laying the groundwork for the progress of the region in the future. As predicted, in New Slovenia we will support the draft law we have tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u66	Dear President, Secretary of State with a team, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, all together one nice greeting! A number of times, the pomur region was on the agenda of the National Assembly. I think that says something that this region is not mentioned for free. Unfortunately, it is mentioned because it is fundamentally lagging behind the Slovenian average; and this is certainly not right. And this law on development support for the Pomur region has already contributed to the reduction of these development differences; and I hope that these positive trends will be further accelerated by the extension. That is why in the Group of Non-Aligned Members we absolutely support and also welcome the wise decision of the Ministry of the Economy to demonstrate their interest and will to extend the law not only for one year but for two years. I believe that this is very good because there is no need to rush these incentives and that such programmes can be drawn up that will actually contribute productively to increasing the competitiveness of the region. However, I am asking the question, given that we had adopted a law on development support in the previous period, but then it happened that, despite the legal basis of the budget, the funds allocated by law to the Pomur region were not provided. I hope that in today's case, when this law is renewed here, that this law will also be fully respected in the drafting and adoption of the budget, and that the government and all of us will show that we know and know that we respect the laws adopted by the National Assembly. This will also be followed by the provision of money to draw on development projects in the region. We must not forget that this region is maturing with the great social tensions that have arisen after the collapse of large business systems and have been socially owned. Later this role was taken over by the state, something has become state property. By misrepresentation, these business systems have not adapted to the new situation, the market situation, the economic situation. This was followed by a collapse, a collapse. The whole economy has collapsed, very few days. And in this shock, which is very deep, the region is in severe distress, which is reflected in all the macroeconomic analysis. Although the situation has certainly improved considerably, unfortunately the region is still lagging behind the Slovenian average. The gross social product at national level amounts to EUR 18 000 693 per capita, in the region of EUR 12 000 437. That's a huge difference. If we look at it, it reaches an index of 66.5 somewhere; which suggests that this region is not yet economically strong enough to ensure an adequate life for all inhabitants. This is also indicated by data on the level of registered unemployment. Allow me to serve with the latest available data for the month of January of this year. In Slovenia, the rate was 11.2 %, in region 18.2. This situation is mirrored here, which in some way also results in social tension, which is understandable on the one hand, on the other hand, it is sad that Austria is indeed a facilitator of these social tensions, rather than accelerating the recovery of the entire economy in the region years ago. Unfortunately, at this point, I would like to point out that the state will also have to take more care of the industrial infrastructure that is failing today and could be activated very quickly. This is what I briefly call untapped development opportunities, untapped local development potentials, for which it would actually be worth thinking about and making sure that they come into office and start giving economic benefits. Unfortunately, they're going down today. If this goes on, they're going to collapse completely. We have lost a lot of critical mass of knowledge in chemistry, the textile industry, the food processing industry, and we are already experiencing difficulties in relaunching, because there was no possibility of knowledge transfer. This could be an extremely big problem. As I have already said, I hope that this time the law will be taken into account in the state budget, and in line with these government plans, that in 2018 it will be in the budget of around € 1.6 million and in 2019 € 1.9 million; a total of around €3.5 million. If this is taken into account, I certainly see that one good contribution is a fair contribution to the development and future of the region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr László Göncz will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! In our Group, we are also convinced that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Development Support of the Pomeranian Region during the period 2010-2017 is the right move of the proposer in view of the situation, as has already been said, that unfortunately not all the statutory means for the implementation of the planned projects have been provided in the State budget. Let me start by saying that we will also support the proposal of the law. I am aware that a number of the reasons and reasons behind the delay in implementation for the region is a very important law. As part of today's agenda item, I will not go into assessing and analysing the liability for the delay, because this is not the purpose of the debate today. The fact is that in the past there have been problems and inconsistencies that have prejudged the delay in the implementation of the so-called law of purgatory. However, it is crucial that the funds legally provided for the most eastern Slovenian region be used to the benefit of the development of Pomur or the area to which they were intended. The main purpose of the law is to create jobs and stabilise the economy in the region. Prolonging the implementation of the law is the only rational act in favour of continuing to bring Pomurje closer to the Slovenian average. I believe that the controversy about why such laws are necessary is not present today. While we agree with the view that it would be desirable for the whole country to live up to the systemic regulation of the regional development of Slovenia, which, although the law on more coherent regional development is indicative; we must recognise that implementation is still very lame. We have repeatedly mentioned that in other countries, even in the developed North European and Scandinavian areas, intervention measures are being taken when this is necessary because of problems or persistently negative indicators of a particular region. It is important to stress that the basic productivity indicators of Pomurje, and above all the situation in the field of employment, have improved slightly over the last period, which must certainly be attributed to the effects of the law that we are discussing today. The fact is that unfortunately there is still a major gap between Pomur and the state average, that we are not talking about the Central Slovenian region. Unfortunately, it is also true that there are still some peripheral regions in Slovenia that have a similar backlog, and we all expect the actual effects of the law on more coherent regional development to be justified. Today, it has been repeatedly said that the unemployment rate in the Pomurje area has improved slightly and today it is 18.2 %, but we need to know that this figure is still around 20% in the Lendava municipality. In the other part of the so-called national mixed area in Prekmurje and in Goričko in general, the situation is even worse. This has led to the migration of thousands of people to Austria from that area daily or, unfortunately, has already moved there. The Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region of the planned programme provides a total of EUR 33 million for Pomurje or for the area to which it is intended; we know that there are three other municipalities from the so-called armistice area. On the basis of the data from the government reports, the proponents have drawn up a concrete and transparent presentation of the situation regarding the use of available resources and have also mentioned the problems encountered within the individual programming sets. That is why I am not going to start repeating myself now because, at this point, it is more important that yesterday, too, the government formally recognized the need to renew and complete the law, which must be welcomed. Although the extension period on the basis of this decision of the Government will be longer than provided for in the proposal for a law, the decision on support is correct and, in particular, from the perspective of the Pomur region. But as has already been pointed out today, in the end, the adoption of this law is certainly the first, of course, key step towards the comprehensive implementation of the law on the Pomurska region. since, following the adoption of this law, budgets will need to be complemented for 2018 and 2019 in accordance with the Government's proposal for the two financial years. So today we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u70	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The country responded to the crisis in Pomour, which peaked in 2009, by adopting the Law on Development Support to the Pomura Region for the period 2010-2015. It decided on an integrated and targeted approach that sought to scale the region economically and achieve its long-term development restructuring, which was the main objective of the law. Following initial difficulties, the implementation of the law has significantly improved through the active involvement of the regional development agency. Nevertheless, the situation is still worrying. In the region, there is still a high unemployment rate, which fell slightly only in 2016. All of this shows that the consequences of the economic crisis due to the economic weakness in the region are still strongly present.It is essential for the region and the country to make use of the rights already guaranteed by law to use development incentives to the end. It is only in this way that the law can achieve the objective and justifiable purpose that was established and endorsed by our government in 2015. When the law was adopted in November 2009, a total of EUR 33 million was foreseen for the development of Pomur. Since the funds have not yet been fully used up, it is necessary to renew the validity of the law which concluded the drawdown period with effect from the end of 2017. In the SMC Group we welcome the initiative of Members of Pomurje to extend the validity of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region. The full realisation of the funds will require another 3 million EUR 500 000. In doing so, we note that on the one hand we are faced with the opinion of the proposer, who claims that the absorption capacity of the pomur economy is great, while the Ministry of Resort does not fully agree with this. Therefore, Members of the SMC will propose that the period of implementation of the law be extended by two years and that the total amount of necessary resources be provided over the next two years. At the same time, it is in explanation to find the thesis that the causes of the unused means can be found in the senseless tendering requirements and the rigidity of red tape. This finding is somewhat surprising, since the measures of the law have been implemented for the seventh year and the reporting on the implementation of the law by 2015 are very well prepared and also carried out projects. Of course, we agree that if there are reasons to look for them in bureaucratic obstacles, they must be removed. I hope that further consideration of this proposal will find together that the current proposal for renewal is a good opportunity to implement planned projects that will reduce the economic and social backlog of Pomurje. We are aware of the importance of fulfilling the legal obligations to the Pomurska region in the modern centre Party Group. The law has been well recognized both in the region and in the government, so of course we support it. In order to achieve the objective of coherent regional development of Slovenia, more attention will have to be paid in the future to the effectiveness of the allocated and used resources. The objectives set out, strengthening development, increasing productivity, increasing jobs, reducing unemployment and laying the groundwork for the region's comprehensive progress are not solely dependent on the proposed law. However, if this helps to achieve those objectives, the activities of our Pomerania Members, who have joined forces to take the initiative to extend the law, are welcome in all respects. As it is said, we will support the proposal of the law, and we hope that the Pomurian economists, farmers, craftsmen and entrepreneurs, together with the municipalities of Pomurje, will take full advantage of development incentives and other advantages and legal benefits. With the amendment to be tabled with coalition partners, the likelihood of planned spending will be even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u72	Your Honor! Two years have passed since the examination of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region, proposing to extend the period of implementation of the law by two years, until the end of 2017. There's been an extension. At that time, the lawmaker assessed that it would be easier to achieve the objectives of the law during the extended period, as well as to provide the necessary resources for the implementation of the Competitiveness Promotion Programme in 2016 and 2017. At that time, the applicant proposed to extend the period of implementation of the law for another year, until the end of 2018. When we look at the latest current data, we see that the situation in the Pomurska region has unfortunately not improved in the meantime. The average registered unemployment rate in Pomour was 17.4% in 2016. In comparison, in Slovenia the average unemployment rate was 11.2 % during the same period. Unfortunately, unemployment in the Pomur region is not decreasing despite engagement. Similar differences in the Slovenian average are the average wage, as well as the gross domestic product per capita. However, we are aware of the fact that, if it were not for the Development Support Act of the Pomur region, it could be even worse. Let us recall why the adoption of the law took place. The Pomur Act was adopted in 2009 with the aim of introducing additional measures to promote the development of the Pomur region, create new jobs and preserve existing jobs, as well as to establish development infrastructure and address the consequences of the economic and financial crisis in the Pomur region. The main objective of the law was and remains to reduce unemployment or create new jobs. As proposed by the amendment of the law, the instruments that have been the subject of this law have not yet solved the central problem, at least until now, this is a major unemployment in the region. This is also confirmed by figures that show that the number of unemployed remains at 18%, which is only a minor lower than in the late 2009 adoption period. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the law at the time of its adoption in 2009. At that time, however, we drew attention to a number of concerns that have proved justified if we look at the results of the law today. Let me make the most of it. We opposed the establishment of a government project office, as this part could be taken over by a regional development agency, which was untrustworthy by the establishment of a project design office. We also assessed at that time that there would be a duplication of tasks on the part of the development agency and the project office, which is certainly not rational. Further, when the management of the government project office was taken over by the then State Secretary from the Cabinet of President Vlad Andrej Horvat, it was clear why the establishment of the project office was necessary. Later, because of conflicts of interest, suspicion of corruption and irregularities in the implementation of the pomur law, he also resigned as Secretary of State. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we considered that there is no need for the establishment of a regional economic centre to be the subject of this law, which is also reflected in the results of this measure. We also opposed the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre, as all tasks could be coordinated and managed by the development agency in cooperation with interested associations and educational institutions. This would play a greater role in the existing system of educational institutions and development agencies and would rationalise the necessary activities in this area. With regard to the water supply project in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have pointed out that this project was already in the national programme before this law was adopted. Nevertheless, investing in drinking water infrastructure has become one of the measures where we know that there has been a suspicion of fraud in construction, linked to the unjustified accounting of work and material and the fear of returning European funds. Regrettably, too, the money to go towards the development of the Pomeranian region and to reduce the number of unemployment was spent on project tasks and evaluation studies allocated to the external contractor, which we opposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group at the time of the adoption of this law. Slovenia is all too centralised. The consequences of this centralisation are reflected in the uneven development of the regions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are committed to the equitable development of the whole of Slovenia and we support any measure aimed at reducing the differences between the regions. That is why the proposed amendment to the extension of the implementation deadline of the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region in the first reading will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Government, as well as to you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me start off by saying I'm not gonna say anything nice. I will be very brief, and I will try to be a nuisance, and I will just say what concerns us in the parliamentary group or what we think must be done with regard to this law. Simple and simple. I am pleased by the concerns of the Members who have tabled this law and it is right that they care about the worst developed part of Slovenia. However, I must say from the outset that we have barely stepped forward in 2017 and that we have had some time to make this amendment of the law or to be tabled by the Government. I must tell the representatives of New Slovenia, the leader of the parliamentary group, that the Government has not forgotten Pomurje and that I simply and simply cannot agree with this problem. I must admit that regardless of the content, this is a very nice proposal and a nice political move. It is a serious political issue that is beginning slowly — the next year elections will take place and it will be proper for Members and Members of Parliament to work or work. We are more interested in the content of this law than in the gathering of political points in our parliamentary group and in the client. Prolonging the implementation of the law means further improvement of the social and economic conditions of Pomurs, Prekmurci and Prlekov, and this is the only thing that policy must take together in any case and this proposal must also be adopted. The fact is that the statistical indicators of the region are improving slightly. It is not true that they are not improving, but they are improving, but they are far behind the Slovenian average and far behind the most developed regions in our country. The outlook lies in economic progress and it is therefore worth taking advantage of the rest of the funding in its entirety. I'm not going to say whether this absorption power of the porous, premurish, premurishing economy has been such that we can draw on it by now. She probably was. The reasons why this did not happen, I will not start here, but I wish that for the programme for which 33 million were earmarked, it is fully supported. I will not talk about the second part of the law, which was also very important, and we sometimes hear bad words in this Chamber around the Pomur waterworks. There are some weaknesses in each project and probably also good effects in this project, as many Pomurec have also received healthy drinking water in their household. We can praise important projects such as drinking water supply, as I have already mentioned, new jobs, investments, incentives, promotion, etc. All this has contributed to the apparent progress made by the gloomy economy in the area of exports and the apparent progress of export revenues. Tourism is a potential in the pomura area, agriculture, uncertain or secure potential. And with a hand in hand these two industries also give this space the opportunity to develop and, of course, to the well-being of the people living in this space. Members and Members of our parliamentary group will be able to support this bill, of course, even with the amendment that we together, I stress, together in the coalition, that this will continue until 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The law on development support for the Pomurska region was adopted in 2009 during the period of the Social Democratic Government. It was adopted after the economic crisis that affected the whole country, but it hit Pomure the most. The so-called Murish Development Act was the first system development framework to help the region, which was severely affected by the crisis. The purpose of the law was not only to provide Pomurje with public development money, but also to increase the region's ability to acquire and use it effectively. He therefore paid particular attention to the preparation of quality projects to promote the development of entrepreneurship and businesses and, above all, to ensure faster opening of new jobs. They have been very safe and sustainable jobs and are also what people in the Pomur region need most. In addition to the development funds, the law also encouraged social entrepreneurship projects. Through a programme of specific tax incentives for employment and investment in the region, it has helped to improve the image of the region in the eyes of investors and to attract them. These are the main reasons for the adoption of the law on development support for Pomurje. The law provided for a specific programme to promote competitiveness for the five-year period 2010-2015 and earmarked €33 million for it. This included incentives for employment and investment facilitation, as well as priority consideration of programmes and projects from Pomurje in candidateing European and national development funds and the establishment of a regional development centre. The implementation of the programme by the end of 2015 was 57.6%. Of the 33 million available, good 22 were used. Partly because all the funds were not available in time and partly because of the lack of quality projects, which would not only mean the realisation or use of available resources, but also provide lasting benefits to people in Pomura. Since the objectives have not yet been achieved and all funds have not yet been used, the 2015 National Assembly extended the law for a further two years, i.e. until the end of this year's term. Much progress has been made in these two years, with only approximately €3.5 million still unexploited, which are not included in the 2017 budget. Looking back shows that such a decision was right. Basic indicators are improving, and unemployment has begun to decline. The gradual improvement of the general economic picture is noted, but unemployment remains above 17% and above the Slovenian average. The consequences of the economic crisis remain strong due to the economic weakness and poor initial situation in Pomour. Some measures had an immediate effect and others were longer term in nature. The law certainly wasn't perfect, but it certainly wasn't a failure. The law created new jobs, built development infrastructure that promoted the region as a good place for employment and investment. Social entrepreneurship talent and agricultural development have been activated. More. This law has also become an example of measures in other problem areas with high unemployment. This is in Pokolpe, Zasavje and the Maribor area. We agree that the funds provided by the law must be given the opportunity to be used in a prudent manner. The use of development money is influenced by two. On the one hand, the amount of money and the conditions under which it can be spent and the ability of the region, people, businesses and local communities to prepare quality projects that will then live independently and also survive. Therefore, providing only money and time in budgetary rules is not enough. There is also a need to take care of projects with which it will be possible not only to spend money but to spend it in such a way that investment will continue to benefit people in the region for a long time. It's not just an assessment of the reality, it's a question of whether we're going to use the money wisely and prudently, or whether it's going to be spent just spending it and ending the story. In addition to the principle of legality, that the means envisaged by law should in fact be provided for, the ability to draw on them should also be taken into account. It is therefore prudent and wise to extend the validity of the law, as proposed, by two years. In this way, it will be possible to secure the financing of good projects, but at the same time there will be no need to amend the budgetary documents. This will make development funds available, but it will be possible to prepare good projects with which the region becomes more attractive and offers more economic opportunities in which people from the Pomur region will find work. One of them is the final layout of the Expo Pavilion near Lake Sobo, which will transform into a first-class tourist location. Therefore, in the Social Democrats' Group, we will unanimously support the draft law at first reading. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greeting to the executive branch of power and to a handful of others. Now I'm listening to this, I've got a written position, and I'm wondering if I should read it at all, because you're all saying I should be brief. But I won't be short. All my professional life I've been working on local and regional development. If I add up the second half of my postgraduate studies when I joined the work of the Centre for Spatial Sociology under the guidance of the Academy of Milinar, if I add up a few months less than 20 years as a space sociologist, if I add up these three years here, we're somewhere in a quarter of a century. What are we talking about here? We'll stretch something in 10 years almost. Is that right? Somewhere. It was already underfunded in 2010. In ten years, there are some 90 billion Slovenian budgets there. GDP 380 billion. We're talking about 35 million or less. Thirty-three million and a few more. The neighbouring country of Hungary will build a football academy in Lendava, will finance the national community with 2 million at the start, which I am glad that I will not be misunderstood and more. Good morning, Slovenia! Now I'm going to read the position a little bit, and then I'm going to add something. In the United Left, of course, we will support the proposal to extend the law. Not uncritically, because local and regional development is one of the weakest points of the entire Slovenian policy. The expert here wrote to me that for the last 25 years, in fact, Slovenia has existed since, in fact, the end of the 1980s. And it's not the expert who's guilty. It's my fault. Developmental inequality is, of course, a huge and growing problem. I asked Mr Cerar from this place there in the first quarter of his term, but it was immediately clear to me that he did not understand at all what I wanted to ask him or did not even get the answer from those who should. Statistics show something, but statistics don't show everything. This has also been my first half of my career, and you've all said a lot before me, because at this point, the Group of Members of the United Left is the last one to give a position, and I'm only going to say a few statistics about the Pomur region. You talked about the unemployment rate, 8% of households receive regular material assistance from charities, the region has 33 students per thousand population, which is well below average, and has the lowest share of the higher, highly educated. On average, this is also the oldest region, which also raises a number of other issues that should be discussed, starting with long-term care. Let's stop blinding ourselves that he's in the countryside and we won't need him in the village. What's the answer? The answer is integrated regional development and inclusive participatory society in all parts of Slovenia. I often talk about the first, second, third Slovenia, as well as within some developed regions you have some underdeveloped or less developed parts. Unfortunately, we could already go to the Ljubljana urban region. The Government of Mir Cerar and several ministries that need to deal with this more and might even be good to bring them together in a future mandate, MGRT with SVRK, ILO with the Ministry of Infrastructure As I have already said many times, we need three mandates seriously separate from the Ministry of Local Self-Government Reform and Regional Development. The last person to be delegated for this was Mrs. Zlata Plosteiner. And it's been a few years or a decade since then. This points to the fact that this is essentially underestimated. It is underestimated in all governments before this government, and this government is no better. The policy of so-called regional development, which I, as an expert in this field, cannot call so, is then based on some partial approaches. What does that mean in practice? In practice, it means that these pieces of state money go through regional development agencies, and I have also asked the Ministry about it, and the government, which should be such as, definitely, elaborate, is good, but most of them are actually intended and do not play this role as an intermediator, transform into a private pocket with insufficient control and lack of transparency. A fine example of this is the Mura Development Agency, where the promotion of Pomurje through an acrobat pilot associated with this agency could be done through Spirit. And here's the question, but it's a proper promotion or not. To make the picture even worse, this government will also ensure that we do not exercise control over these partial measures with sufficient control. Not only is there not enough resources for the Pomur region, it is also necessary to compare resources and realisation for the other three development-threatening regions, the official Pocolpje, Podravje, Zasavje. This should be added to all other developmentally endangered peripheral local communities or municipalities, and then we will somehow come to the territory of two thirds of Slovenia. We'll support the marriage at first reading, but I'll tell you more from the bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The speaker has the floor, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Now, from this place, seat number 90. First of all, I would like to thank the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which decided at yesterday's meeting to support this amendment of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region and make this law even better. Not the government, but the government is proposing and I am pleased that SMC has taken us to a second reading and I am pleased that the coalition has announced an appropriate amendment. The proponents support this, the Club of the Moorish Members supports it, the Pomurje supports it. I thank all parliamentary groups. If I were Borut Pahor, I'd say what a fantastic day. But I didn't say that for no reason. It is the statistical region of Pomurje, which has 27 municipalities plus 3 municipalities: Ormož, Sveti Tomaž and Centre ob Drava, which is about 130 000 people, I say. I also thank Dr. Franz Trčku, who has served with some additional information, of course this is the area of his scientific research work and will certainly be very useful in the second debate. What really worries me or the proponents is that if we look at another statistical information that I don't think anyone has mentioned today. And this is: Pomurje, statistical region, 27 municipalities, natural growth in 2015 minus 350. But now we are talking about one rather narrow segment and once again Comrade Trček was talking about billions from the budget, gross social product, decade, all this is true, but apparently we Prekmurci and Prleki are also satisfied with and grateful for the fines, although EUR 33 million for the programme exclusively promoting the competitiveness of the gloomy economy or, more precisely, the economies of these 30 municipalities, which are covered by this law, are not petty. It is true that this law, which I have personally focused on the competition promotion programme, has had some positive effects. It's over. However, it is also certain that these effects are not being excretely measured. So we cannot tell exactly what would be the situation today if we did not have this marriage. We are pleased that we received this law in 2009 and the effects appear. This is also a case of secondary effects. The point is that when domestic and foreign investors see that only something is happening, then it is also a good climate, that investors come at all. I am pleased that one of the foreign investors has already announced a new investment in the Lendava area again, and two years have not passed since. He announced a new investment of a good EUR 40 million. I believe that in the government this decision was not in itself a premeditated decision that it was not trivial. I imagine and explain myself, and I want to underpin this claim by making us all aware, all of us, not just the Government, that we have several problem areas, statistical regions in Slovenia, if you want. Why are problems or problems concerning development? Surely, because of what we all agree that simply in these 25 years we have our own country, we have not been able to effectively implement coherent regional development. True, Slovenia is all too centralised. Also because many functions from peripheral regions have come to Ljubljana. For example, we once had the Ljubljana Bank, the Pomur Bank, a shareholder company, and then all the strategic decisions were lifted and transferred to the Market of the Republic in Ljubljana. Similarly or the same as Insurance Company Triglav. This one had a fantastic market share in the statistical region of Pomurje, I mean the district unit of the Insurance Office Triglav Murska Sobota. All strategic decisions have been made in Ljubljana. Surely this is, one can say, in line with the rationalisation of business and so on, all companies tend to do so. Maybe a few more numbers. In 2016 and 2017, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, for these two years, I repeat, was extended by the National Assembly in 2015, and the budget in 2016 provided 4 million 848 thousand 33 euros and for this year 4 million 153 thousand 751 total 9 million 784 euros. The invitation to tender for these two years was a two-year tender, with an initial tender of 6 million and an additional 300,000. So for two years, 6 million 300 thousand. I am not now critical of this; surely there are some reasons why not all the funds have been tendered, i.e. 9 million for these two years. As for the 2016 realisation, we now have accurate data, and for 2016 payments amounted to 2 million 576 thousand 448 and for 3 million. I will not, because the Member must not interfere with the tendering conditions, who has received, who has not received and so on, these are always very difficult themes. Although those who come out of the invitation to tender for such and such reasons somehow feel hurt, deceived, sad, and so forth. But here are very strict rules, and perhaps not even the rules of the guardian of this law, namely the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, perhaps more the Ministry of Finance. But there are, of course, some illogicalities that we MPs know. Let's say that one company goes into a relatively large investment of some 100,000 euros, for example, it also produces racks for libraries, shops and such things, and then as a cost of this investment, it also lists the racks in the warehouse. These were thought to be racks for some metal profiles, for raw materials, which must have a carrying capacity of a few tons. But this company is working, producing racks for libraries and shops, so there are no required loads of a few tons. And then the custodian throws them out, and he says, "Listen, you guys make these storage racks yourself, for these heavy metal profiles with a carrying capacity of a few tons." But that's one detail that doesn't matter today. Today it is important that, colleagues and colleagues, the respected Government that we all really understand the need of Pomur and that this region needs to be helped. And if we have this law, it goes only to ensure that this law is consistently respected and implemented. The original text of the 2009 law stated: a programme to promote competitiveness of €33 million, which I believe will now be implemented by the end of 2019. Let's leave the inflation now, if it isn't or not, and so on in this detail, I'm not going. I'm not going into this detail either, or it's a nice marriage now, or it's been filed too fast. Look, New Slovenia doesn't need any titles, God forbid. Here's the project, if you really want me to repeat it, the House of Pomarian Members. I believe and I know that everyone in their group has tried to convince their colleagues. Under the line, this is like every law project of the National Assembly. In the end, the State Assembly will either adopt or reject the law. And I am glad that this law or all of us do well. Thank you very much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bachič. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to get more involved in the debate of my colleague, Trčko. Let me take a look back in that year 2009, in that year of the Pahor government, where we talked a lot here in Parliament about coherent regional development. Go ahead. We passed this law on assistance to the Pomurska region, then came Pokolpje, and Podravje I think there were some attempts. Which, of course, would be necessary. However, we had regional development agencies across statistical regions to share or regulate these aids according to the projects prepared by the municipalities. In the world of the regions, priorities are made for these implementation plans, and in this way these state aids, or then some European aid, are being distributed. In the previous financial perspective, some €650 million was available and this money was distributed by regional development agencies. In particular, infrastructure projects were financed, they had priority, and some home of older citizens also came, and some school, kindergarten, but most of it was used for infrastructure. In the new financial perspective, this money is gone. A dozen of what happened before. And it is true that regional development agencies do not, in most cases, perform the functions they should have. I have repeatedly stressed when I was still mayor that cohesion projects should also be driven and led in some way by a team in the development region, in order to strengthen itself so that there would really be a precursor to the provinces if we did not already have them, which is probably a major harm to the use of these funds or to the management of these cohesion medo-quine projects. So now I think we don't even have a real picture of what's going on in the regions. Something helps entrepreneurs, they're looking for some means to survive, but it's not the right effect. We know, however, that we still need a great deal in the field of infrastructure projects, such as water supply, decommissioning and wastewater treatment. We are also weak in waste management. It is true that the country does not have a firm policy in these areas, that it has no objectives set or some implementation programmes, what this should look like in Slovenia. For water supply, it is clear that waste water treatment and waste management is less clear. Even the profession in individual ministries or this is one ministry, I think there's a lot of whispering that we don't know what we want or when we should settle it. As far as this law is concerned, I support this, too, the Government supports the use of this money and to carry out the project until the end, to extend it for another two years, even though we have proposed for one year, the government for two, which is not bad, is better. But the question is, are there any real effects? During these years, a thorough analysis could also be made of whether the best effects were indeed in these projects, whether the money was right or whether something should be modified, what to prepare, what to fix, because times are changing. Now I would like to say something else about not seeing other regions that need help. From Pomurje or Prekmurje, there are many workers in Austria who are close. There are higher wages than we do, even working conditions may be better. However, we have a South East region, which is the most economically developed region, and I have heard today that in all categories, the best companies after employment are from the smallest to the largest in Dolenjska, in this region, which I am very pleased with. But we have one subservience through the Gorjans, where people can't go to the neighbouring country to work because conditions are even worse than we do. Most of them drive to Novo mesto, but we do little for this region. There agriculture is failing, it is simply failing very quickly, but if they are already engaged in tourism themselves, they have a bunch of administrative and bureaucratic barriers to accessing certain permits. If they want them, the state bureaucrats are more difficult than they are to help. Maybe sometimes we don't just need money. We need to look at rural areas as to what they actually need, whether professional assistance or the removal of administrative resources, bureaucratic ones. That's what people miss. We're always saying there's no money, that's all we've got. Do we have the will? Do we have knowledge? People miss it. When we go through the terrain, when we talk to them, those young people who get started want to create something else, they immediately run into a wall in the form of bureaucracy, and the mines prefer to find a job outside, and they go with the belly behind the bread. I'd like to appeal to that more. If we have talked so much about this coherent regional development at the time, let us look again after so many years, reexamine and prepare for the whole of Slovenia. Developmental differences are only increasing, not diminishing, what we wanted to do back then. With the first European funds, this was a desire to reduce the developmental disparities between the provinces. We also have a central Dolenjska economic development in Dolenjska, and we even lack labour. As we can see, in the Revoz factory, they don't get enough workers, it's sad that most young people drop out on a medical examination, which is catastrophic, mainly because of illicit substances, because the review shows up a while ago. They also travel from Posavje to Dolenjska, to Novo Mesto to work. And then they drive for a while, and then they find out that it's better to be home and get social assistance and live better without a job. Let us support this law, and in the meantime let the competent ministry look at what needs to be done elsewhere. And maybe not only with money, but with real organisation, with the right measures that don't just mean money. I am convinced that many people who are also in charge of coherent regional development have very poor results, that there is no real effect in such work as there is a need to reorganise, as my colleague Trček said, especially what is going on with regional development agencies. I think that great damage was done when we went to turn the world of the region into a development world where we put in unions, entrepreneurs, and I don't know what else. But only municipalities, no one else, provide money for these projects. I think that this regional development council has lost some of the edge that the world of the region previously had when the mayors could agree on each other. However, I think there would be great progress if we could agree on the landscapes, including spatial planning, industrial planning, craft zones and so on. Because every small congregation cannot have everything. If we had the provinces, we'd have a better deal in the country than we are now. We could also have landscape spatial plans mainly in the area of infrastructure. We now have, I think, about 400 projects launched on state roads, in the planning of the Ministry of Infrastructure's development programmes, where projects are just started, they have their guardian, designer and end. Certain people are designated for these projects, but then it stopped because no one can tell if a project is to be implemented in the next decade. It drags from year to year, and every new government adds something that the electorate likes. It is necessary to make order here because there are industrial zones, but they do not have electricity provided, they do not know when the road will reach them, they do not have proper water supply, which the congregation must provide and so on. One set of things to be done with the right will is to move with the right approach. So let us now support this law, accept that this is over, and in the meantime, I hope that the ministry will also consider problems and how to solve them in other areas that are just as fragile.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u83	Mr Jožef Horvat, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. My colleague Zvona, who is an excellent expert on local self-government, reminded me of one thing when he spoke about the development regions. Colleagues and colleagues, I have here a pleasant duty to present the decision of the Council of the Pomeranian Development Region, which was adopted on 13 March this year at the 68th regular meeting of the Council of the Pomeranian Development Region. This under the heading Presentation of the status of the agreement for the development of the region, considered the extension of the Law on Development Support to the Pomurski region in the period 2010-2017 and adopted the following decision: “The Council of the Pomurje Development Region calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to extend the Development Support Act to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2017, thus ensuring the implementation of the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomurje region in the period 2010-2017 at a legally prescribed amount of EUR 33 million.” Of course, I also agree that sooner or later, a coalition, or National Assembly, will have to do whatever it takes to make regionalisation of this country as soon as possible, or to introduce a second level of local self-government. Whether we will call it the province or we will call it the country of Slovenia, the Slovenian country. To this end and not insignificantly very often encourages me to honor the honourable Member of the first call, then the Assembly, and I really want to see this happen once again, that we will introduce countries or provinces into Slovenia, just as the National Assembly will decide. This will then make it significantly easier to find the issue of the coherent regional development of our country. Allow me to provide you with information on payments over the years for a programme to promote competitiveness. So programme 33 million and what was the realisation of payments. I'll give you round numbers. Year 2010, i.e. the first year of implementation of the Pomeranian Region Development Support Act, 3.8 million. Year 2011 3.6 million. Year 2012 4.4 million. Year 2013 2.9 million. Payments in 2014 4.2 million. Payments in 2015 3.8 million. Payments in 2016 2 million 576 thousand, that is at least in all these years. Not including 31. 12. 2016 25 million 355 thousand 424 were implemented on the basis of the Competitiveness Promotion Programme. So up to 33 million will remain 7 million 644 thousand. So 7 million 644 thousand for 2017, 2018 and 2019, if such a law is adopted as proposed by the Government, that is to say an extension up to and including 2019. Of course, there are also immediate questions here, assuming that the absorption capacity of the pomur economy exists. I talk a lot with the Chamber of Commerce and other institutions. Some of you have debated or indicated that the absorption capacity in Pomurje is poor. No, no, no. The absorption capacity of the Pomeranian economy is strong enough, and in general, we can absorb this 7.6 million in three years. Whether the tenders will be published for all of these 7,6 million this year, or perhaps because of any different content, two years, one year, or whatever. I believe it's probably premature to talk in these scenarios today. Finally, what we have also written down in the law, for this period also an operational programme, must be set out precisely, of course, in conjunction with the Pomur region, why these funds will be used specifically to make the most effective use of them. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u85	The word is given by Mrs Marija Bachič, to prepare Dr. Franz Duck and Mag. Matthew Tonin. Mrs. Bachič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone, welcome. I am pleased that, from the debate and from the viewpoints, we can actually see support for the extension of this pomur law. We all know why this law was adopted in 2009. There was a lot going on back then in Pomour. Big companies like Mura, Pomurka went down, and then we said there was a social bomb in Pomur. We know that there were 4,000 people in Mura in good times, and then 2,000 people in Pomurka as well. We can thank the then government of Mr Borut Pahor for having detected the problem and how to save Pomurje, which was also in a very large developmental back then. Indeed, there are criticisms that this pomur law has arisen. And you know, when the new pomurish law was born, which was really the first, very good, it also gave birth spasms, birth problems at the beginning, and I wouldn't take it for such terrible criticism. But today we can talk about that the law was needed and that the effects are visible in the development of the economy, in the development of agriculture, especially in very successful social enterprises that were not yet in existence, and it would be right to acknowledge this to Pomura. It is true, however, that we are still facing extremely high unemployment, which is still above the average in Slovenia, of 17.5 or 18%. You also said that we are lucky to be out there somewhere near Austria, that our people are going over and serving bread there. I don't think that's our intention. Our aim is to have as many jobs as possible in our Pomurje. As much has already been said for all companies, I might now look more closely at the promotion of tourism. We have not yet exhausted all the potentials that our Pomurje has in fact offered. Perhaps the vast majority of you know the Vinarium tower in Lendava, how successful this project is. We can talk about the hundreds of thousands of tourists who visited this tower. With us in Murska Sobota, we can now talk about the Pavilion EXPO, on which we are betting extremely much. That's what they say. It's the door to Pomurje. We are counting on this project to increase the promotion of our Pomurje, where the essence will be able to promote our kindness, culinary, thermals, and social enterprises, so that people, tourists, when they arrive, can actually understand the potential of our beautiful Pomurje, our unspoiled land, so that our economy can also then, on the basis of drawing or on the basis of tourists, make little economic progress so that we do not speak under this law, 2019 says that we have not taken full advantage of all the options. It is also true, as you all have said, that it is up to us, that it is up to our economists to prepare good projects, that then the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology will have the opportunity to support these projects, so that they will be exhausted until the end of our law. The Pomurese Members, all together, as we have said many times, insist that these funds, 33 million, will be exhausted by the end of this period, that project projects will be prepared and that investment will also benefit people in our region for a longer time. It is certainly wise and wise to extend the validity of the law, so I will also accept this extension of the law by myself and our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u87	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky, get ready to mag. Matthew Tonin and Mrs Andreja Potočnik. Here you go, Dr. Runcho.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I'll take my time. Okay, I'm listening to what we're explaining here today, we're slowly in the fourth year of this mandate, and I also understand this pre-election. A little joke, much more truly, I'm a little sad that the MPs didn't invite me. I have a Dobrovnik mother-in-law, my dear has a cousin there, I'm regular and in Prekmurje and Gorički, I've lived and in Prlecia and Murski Sobota for a short time, so I can say that I know the matter very well. What's sad for me? I didn't just mention that number. We're actually talking, Joko is going to fix me, I'm a neuro-mathematic technique, but for a long time there was this, let's say that the budget is 9.1 billion, somewhere out of 3.6 percent 1 percent of the budget that we've stretched to 10 years. Approximately. That people get a feeling, and that's now a problem that we have to debate for a long and long time. My youngest daughter would start howling with her eyes, perhaps even older. The fact is, as I said before, we've never really dealt with it. We have had some relatively spontaneous development, a more decentralised Slovenia in the 1980s than we have now. Then we had these congregations, which, of course, played a positive role, infrastructure that we would not only be scheming them, but now, at some level of development, this fragmentation becomes a problem. On Monday there was this festive meeting, and at nine in the morning, I had this wonderful graduation assignment, my colleagues Friedau, the Englishmen in Gorički, and they came and they went, and we talked about Prekmurje most of the time, when we said something about home. And it is also sad that if we went to the narcissism of small differences, what this coalition likes to do, you could say, yes wait, because you Prekmurci or Pomurci have at least got something. My people from the White Land and Maribor up and down, so I'm not going to go to that level. [[…]] It's a big problem again, some big problem. I'll quote something. Citation: "White landscape and Pokhlopje are net contributors to the state budget. You pay more to the state cash register than you get out of it. They are sponsoring the wealthier parts of the country, which is an exception in the EU. The last major state investment in the White Krajina took place in Austro-Hungarian – the arrival of the railway in 1914.” Black Peter, as we call it, the White Country Development Information Centre. The pen is a little younger than me, the old Yugoslavia was working to prepare the railway from Chernobyl, the line near Kolpa to the river, the war came and this was not done at the time. Surely it would be in all these ministries, which I have mentioned, that someone should be put off, but I believe that people burn out of work and in this burnout and in this "breathing" if I put it that way, they may not even have time to step seven steps back and see where a system is completely limping. From some of my professional experience, I tried to do this little thing through some of my parliamentary questions, and I quickly realized that it probably wouldn't get any better in this mandate. That is why I am also serious because from professional deformation I am analysing the reforms of local self-government regional development, but, you know, we are such bad students. We only lift half our noses over the fence when we look across. We have some SMC Members who talk a lot about the wood processing chain, and let's develop, and so on. Mr jedan has now taken forestry across, and we have problems and problems, we many foresters have somehow reported this. We have these sort of inside shopping and we're stealing the future all together, and for the kids it's going, I'd say SDS, and we don't know how to look over the planks. The so-called proHolz, the Austrians, connected regionally. ProHolz was based on the fact that people in the countryside would not be poor. They still have some saws that we can't compare to in terms of the scales that are there at zero or little in minus, but they have this saw, as you might say in your language, a pronounced multiplier. If I touch the regions a little bit. I've said many times that this is probably the only thing I agree with the RC. As many bishops as the archdiocese, so many regions, maybe one less, and I won't tell anyone who won't beat me. But of course not on the nose. This would be very urgent, and this is a project that requires two mandates in mature democracy and in Slovenia would be happy if we carried out this within three mandates, if pre-prepared in this mandate and if, in the next term, someone knew something about regional development in the coalition. But I don't necessarily mean myself, but it wouldn't be bad. I do not fully agree with my colleague Laho, but we agree on this huge issue. He came from the mayoral function, which is currently the most difficult function in Slovenia, from the rank of the central municipality up definitely, me with some other. That the world of developing regions is, of course, easier, as long as they were only mayors. This is now a slightly more complicated matter, but this is a draft regional Parliament, which is more like the state council. It's kind of harder there, and we need to start learning to talk to each other. It's true that we have a huge centralization. We almost have some serious exposure to statehood outside Ljubljana. We have this post office in Maribor, which was part of this deal that just happened, something small in Ribnica, Darsa's mailbox in Celje. Have I forgotten anything? That's almost it. I don't think I'm going to name him who's overseas in Slovenia, I actually say, I see from the apartment everything that's going on with our marines, and I have to come from Kopra to Ljubljana to see it officially. Why is that important? Maybe you think it's a joke. It's not! Jobs are also involved. The Czech Republic has a third branch of power, some key actors in Brno. Hungarians have moved some ministries from Budapest somewhere else. If we look at a little bit more content on the numbers, and I've been on the committees many times, and in this development programme and some other area, it's an area a Member likes at number 90, and we've been talking about it on a diploma, especially this small entrepreneurial part. It's always said that the United Left is not for entrepreneurship. Far from it. I am one of the few who reads the budget seriously on both sides. When I wrote some serious business or economic part of the United Left programme and I wanted to publish it in the Journal because they asked me to do so, and at the committee meeting I criticized the DZS, they did not publish it to me, but they published a Traveler’s Racek about tourism. Although Trček created jobs in tourism a little differently than the owner of this newspaper and the DZS. But if I come back. He's very limping about this part in the realisation of the Pomura Act. Today, there was an interview about the situation in the agri-food sector by a gentleman who in the region is very masterful and is an advisor to the Capital Council and spoke exactly what I am saying. Why do they have cooperatives in Italy? Why is Jager a successful regional trader, someone else doesn't? Why didn't one of them say we're not doing business with Todorovich? And so on. I'm looking at the Austrian side over. We have a knowledge of what I have already said several times, which works at their agri-economic chamber, whose task is to have 100-120 family farms under it and at least twice a month must come to their attention and work seriously and think only about the financial construction, cocktail activities that will enable survival. Where are we from? Light years. And it's not like I don't know how to launch a rocket on Mars. I'm going to talk, and I'm not going to name, but to the other part of Slovenia, where the alternate SMC member came from, they explain to me, if, in fact, our agricultural advisor doesn't even know the area, I have to wait for the other one to come up with a banal matter. The mustache is good. How the right plums are cut. And there's more. If I was in a 90-minute client right now, I'd be talking for 90 minutes. We don't have some serious development policy. We don't have an economic policy. A smart specialization strategy is to cry or laugh. I'm not even gonna talk about vision. We do not have a youth policy, we do not have a housing policy, we do not have a long-term care policy for the elderly even in rural areas, we do not have an industrial policy. And now I don't know how long. And then we talk two-thirds of the time about some, I can't tell you anything else, the pumpkins of the law. Half of what this national assembly is considering in this reference should not be our theme at all, since the government should already react as a government. We never get into some serious development debates. The fact that this item on the agenda is the last item of the agenda for the regular March session is already quite clear. The young have come up, I welcome them, I'm breaking the rules of procedure. I don't think they're from the United Left, like you're bringing in the party. And then some say yes, but e-elections would save something, but more young people will vote. And if they take it seriously, why would they vote for us? Who in this country is dealing with someone under 40? Now it's not populism. That's right. The Court of Auditors' audit report recently does not have youth policies in fact. Then we have these little cregaries of mayors among us. We act as if the stream stops at the municipal border and the color changes. Where the mayor of the United Left will be red, where the mayor of New Slovenia will be, Matthew will tell me what color it will be if I do a little caricature. And these are actually problems that are not related to what kind of drugs there is, such as the previous item on the agenda, because it is also becoming a rural problem. Drugs, yes, it is, with alcohol as a traditional problem. But are we looking for some competent people? And I'm gonna finish my degree because I've already started. We were talking about how my graduate student in Pomurje should survive in Prekmurje. She's a bonsai kind of guy. You have to go to the woods for a good bonsai. Either that neighbor is gonna beat you up or something. If I were a little bit of a devil's lawyer, I'd ask how you'd make it possible for her to survive and some small, tiny entrepreneurship. We definitely need the ministry I mentioned. Personally, I think we definitely need a merger of some ministries. MGRT and SVRK should be together, infrastructure with environment and space should also be combined if the agricultural ministry were to be a little more serious. But, of course, in all these ministries, we need 300 watertight people who won't sell themselves in one way or another. Without that, differences will only grow. And Slovenia will not solve the problem of birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u89	Mr Jožef Horvat, representative of the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dr. Franz Duck, I'm glad you mentioned Dobrovnik. You will not believe this meeting of the Council of the Pomeranian Development Region was in Dobrovnik. Mr. Drofenik was there and he's my witness. We also thought about you there and your colleagues, the Member and Members within the United Left Group, because we thought of all 90 when we thought of support. And thank you for your support. Indeed, this debate, which will be a while longer, I hope, will last if we now financially evaluate what we are talking about. Yes, we are talking about 3.7 per cent of the state budget of the expenditure side. Or, if I'm more accurate, if we're talking about 3.5 million about what we're supposed to draw in this year and in the next two years, then of course we're talking about 0.37 per cent of the state budget. But it doesn't matter now. Apparently, we are so made, I repeat, we are satisfied with the crumbs. Together, we must also create a positive climate. I invite you to join us and I am pleased that you have been given a diploma to be a mentor, as I understand it, to the subject of the English – the English have left Prekmurje. One such research task is certain, including this, very seriously, Pomurje, demography 2015, natural growth minus 350. What can we do to reverse this omen? These are very serious matters. Surely not only by this law, but there must be a host of measures here to prevent regions from emptying out on the periphery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u91	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare Mrs. Andreja Potočnik and Mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u92	In the beginning, thank God that Pomurje has Joseph Horvath. At times, in our Group of Members, we are a little overwhelmed by all the suggestions and initiatives that our Member, Jožef Horvat, is putting together and giving everything to the benefit of Pomur. Which, of course, is encouraging. Today we are considering a proposal for a law on development support for Pomura. Most likely, there would be a large majority in this room who would most likely need a special law and development aid programme for White Krajina, Koroška, Kozyanski, Posača and could also mention it. But I'm not in favor of that. I think this is an indication that something with this country is wrong if we need specific laws for individual parts of Slovenia. I believe that in the framework of systemic legislation, things should be resolved in a way that does not require specific laws that promote certain parts of the country. Today we could say that if we take a little bit more broadly that we are talking about coherent regional development, today we are talking about how we will develop all the ends and places of Slovenia, that young people will stay at home, that these young people who accompany us on the balcony today will have the opportunity to work in Slovenia, to find a job in Slovenia, and also to live with dignity. This is what the debate should be about today. And in these matters, it is crucial that two sub-topics can be developed in the context of this pomur law and consistent regional development. One is the question of infrastructure and the other is the question of municipalities. As far as infrastructure is concerned, if we want Slovenia to develop in a coherent regional manner, then infrastructure needs to be developed as well. Let's make it sound so funny, but for starters, they're the basis of all the connections of the road, the railroad. If someone from Posoč or from Koroška needs almost half a day to come to Ljubljana, it is difficult to imagine some serious business opportunities and opportunities. If this country and this government are serious about coherent regional development, then it is certainly necessary to address the issue of infrastructure first, start building roads, start building railways. Without it, there'll be nothing. We can add another infrastructure to this thing, such as access to the Internet. If you still have individual villages and hamlets in Slovenia where you cannot afford a decent internet, then it is clear that it is difficult to expect young people to stay in these parts, live there and try to realize their ideas and visions. In these infrastructure matters, which are of wider national importance, such as the third development axis, the fourth development axis, the second track and the construction of other sections of the road, the country most called and the government in particular is here. Of course, we are all in charge of creating the best possible conditions for as much money to flow into the state budget as possible so that all these things can be financed. The second sub-theme to which I said I would pass is the question of Slovenian municipalities. The Slovenian municipalities, I think, are in all of history, even though there are many of them, that they are very fragmented, but if you draw the line and really evaluate all of this history of the municipalities, you can see that the municipalities have made a key contribution to more coherent regional development. If Slovenia did not have all these municipalities, I guarantee you that the differences between individual parts of Slovenia would be much greater. If you drive across certain small places today and compare these images with images 20, 25 years ago, you can see that the differences are obvious, however, that some progress has taken place. And all this progress would certainly not have been without the congregations. My delegation and I also consider that the municipalities are the driving force behind the development and promotion of coherent regional development. However, in the current government coalition there is certainly no great support for Slovenian municipalities. In particular, mayors from small Slovenian municipalities warn us that the funding of municipalities is inappropriate and that they do not have money for any serious investments, for what serious infrastructure projects, but only for their operation. Perhaps it is also a government strategy and the work of the government coalition that, if the Virant's attempt to reduce the number of municipalities by law failed, this issue would be attempted in another way. This is simply by reducing funding for municipalities. When the congregations have no money to do anything concrete, but only for the most basic things they have to pay, from kindergartens, from administration, will the interest or will of the people for these small congregations be much lower. But I would be very sad if we were to abolish these congregations in this way. As I said, many parts of Slovenia would deserve a similar law, such as the law on development support for the Pomurska region. I said, from White Krajina, Koroška, Posoča, Kozjanski, not to mention, many. But once again, I say that the approach to such laws does not seem right to me and that at the systemic level we should settle matters so that these individual parts of Slovenia can normally survive without any specific support. Just as I draw a parallel to that famous investment promotion law in Maribor for Magna, it seems sad that we have such a bureaucratic system that some special law must be adopted for an investment. It is the same to help individual parts of Slovenia. If we want the Slovenian regions or the various municipalities to develop well or if we really want consistent regional development, then we need to improve two matters. One thing I have already mentioned and discussed about it is infrastructure, which is a key prerequisite and a necessity for any coherent regional development, and another is to improve the business environment. The business environment in the sense that people will be able to realize their ideas so that their vision can be realized through an entrepreneurial initiative so that individuals can live. And when we talk about the business environment, it is not again my or the conclusion of our parliamentary group, but it is shown by international comparative studies that we are uncompetitive in Slovenia, as far as wage taxation is concerned. The taxation of wages in Slovenia is too high. That's one aspect. Another aspect is the overly bureaucratic nature of our administration. Here I would agree with Mr Trčko when he spoke about which ministries should unite. I agree with him in this part. I come from the business zone of the Command and there it happens that two ministries of the same law interpret completely differently. And they cannot realize or use a certain part of the business zone. It's circulating in a vicious circle. If I were to get rid of bureaucratic obstacles, if I were to simplify the administration, there would be a lot of things going on in this country. I think that, especially for coherent regional development, it is crucial to place them in space. Here in Slovenia, things are really incredibly complicated that municipalities and even individual companies can spend more than 10 years trying to place an object in a production hall. And perhaps all of us together can only imagine roughly how much energy is going on, the money that would be much smarter to invest in other things is more necessary than to go hours and hours to tens of thousands of euros, and there is something else about trying to put something into space. Only after we improve these matters when we improve the infrastructure across the country, when we improve the business environment, reduce the taxation of wages and when we debirocratise our administrative apparatus will I think that conditions will be created so that the laws we are considering today will no longer have to be adopted. Until then, it is likely that various fire-fighting actions will continue to take place, where we will once adopt such a law, the second time we will adopt a different one, but you will see that there are no substantive changes or progress. Certainly in the current constellation and in the current circumstances, it is positive that we have the Development Support Act of the Pomur region, but in addition to saying that it is sad that we have to have it at all, it is another thing, which is also tragic, that we have been extending the validity of this law for several years. What is to say is that, obviously also by achieving the objectives set out in the law, something is wrong and that these procedures need to be accelerated so that the tools provided by the law as a possibility of application can be used as best and as usefully as possible. I hope and wish that Slovenia develops as evenly as possible and that our people can live in the places where they are born.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u93	Mrs Andreja Potočnik has the floor to prepare Mr Andrej Cuz and Mr Marko Ferluga. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u94	President, thank you for your word. Let me begin by mentioning that I myself support this initiative by NSI, in which it was later explained that it is an initiative of all the Pomura Members. I support this initiative, together with my colleagues, Mr Kavčič and Mr Radič, who are on the ground with the Minister today and are looking at one part of this infrastructure, which Mr Tonin has just mentioned. I am sometimes a little surprised, although I am a new Member in this reference when we talk about having a lot of administrative and bureaucratic obstacles, and this is explained by a Member from a parliamentary group that has already been in the government. I feel like we, the new government, the government of Dr. Mira Cerar, have made sure that we have a lot of red tape and administrative obstacles. I wonder what you've been doing for 25 years to get these administrative obstacles. These administrative barriers cannot be changed overnight, nor can they be changed in just two years. The people who were previously in government are criticizing how you wish there were no more of these administrative obstacles. I don't seem to understand anything better here. I agree that it would be best for us to have some system law that we have, but for this less developed area, they decided in 2010 to adopt a special law, a law that allows for a better business environment. What Mr Tonin was talking about is a little bit ahead of me: incentives for employment, tax incentives for investment, promotion of competitiveness. And I wonder why they don't go as far as everyone wants. I am pleased to listen to the projects that most Slovenians know: sightseeing tower, Pavilion EXPO, Gate in Pomurje. These are absolute opportunities that people who live there must take advantage of. No marriage, no marriage, I repeat, will help if the people who live there don't have enough vision, creativity and ideas to change that. I believe there's enough will, creativity and vision in that area to make life in Pomurje better. It was also mentioned that more roads, more railways, would have to be built. Again, I wonder what we've been doing for 25 years. We just have to build railroads and roads now?Oh, my God! Let me remind you, the road to the border of Gruškovje, the modernisation of the railway Hodoš, our government has not forgotten how it wants to be presented that we are not doing anything about this. If you have read the Government's opinion, the Government itself has considered not to extend this law, but to prepare certain measures in the framework of the System Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development. But she decided because the numbers are still not good enough to support the proposal to extend this law for two years. Although the Coalition is still unable to table an amendment physically legally, we predict that the coalition will submit a proposal for an extension by 2019. Yeah, and it's not always enough money. That's what I think we're stressing and identifying more than once. There is also a need for support, a desire, and I do not know, we found just before certain offices were established in this area, that it was not the best again. Personally, I do not think it is wise that all people always have to drive to the center of Slovenia, Ljubljana, but that services must be closer to people where they come from. But let's leave it, it's also a matter of debate. However, I must mention Magna's investment, because I still claim and remain firmly in this position that this special Magna law will also benefit Pomurje. I believe that many locals will be driven from there to Hoče - Slivnica and get bread still in Slovenian space. However, I am aware that this is not an ideal solution, so I believe and expect the Ministry of the Economy to draw up a system law that will destroy these anomalies, essentially destroy individual laws or allow us to have strategic investments, both foreign and domestic. This will enable all regions and all citizens of Slovenia to have the same opportunity to make investments. I personally believe that the government of Dr. Mir Cerar has made a big leap after these times of crisis for investment, but of course this is not the reason that we have to stop now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u95	We have three more panellists to report. First, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank you for your support to my distinguished colleague, Andrea Potočnik. Its debate is very important. She is the president of the Committee on the Economy, and I know that Mr Zdravko Restoršek is also very much in the field of economic development and technology. I learned this from our personal conversation when I asked him to consider and support our marriage. I absolutely agree with you, colleague Andrei, that at least it is purely Christian democratic that our Christian democratic policy is based on personal responsibility. First, I am responsible and must develop my own potential, intellectual, entrepreneurial, etc. I'm responsible for my own existence, I'm responsible for my family, etc. We can't go into such a policy to say, "Hey country, look, here's my empty plate, now throw the first menu, the second menu" etc. I have to take care of myself and my loved ones, and that's the key. Of course, as you have rightly found, entrepreneurs in this Pomurska region and in Ormož and Municipality Centre ob Drava and Municipality of Sveti Tomaž are people with entrepreneurial potential. They've proven that to this day. Now they want to expand and it's nice because the environment is just like we said many times today, that if we already have a marriage, then we can help them. That they might get some 10,000 euros through the invitation to tender to buy, for example, a laser metal cutter and the like. Of course infrastructure, yes. I remember when I was in the 2004-2008 mandate, that's when we first set up the Pomurian Members' Club. I was the only coalition among the six post-war MPs. Can you imagine a burden? They were very respectable around me, as they say, old cats, politicians, and they were just giving me assignments, Joze this, Jože this. At the time, we talked a lot about the Mooring Highway. Dr. Bajuk, thank him, has closed the financial structure for the highway, not just for the pomurska, but some other. For the modernisation of the Prague-Hodoš railway 460 million. I was glad to be with the Prime Minister in the same car last year at the opening of this renovated track. So there's some progress, no one's saying we didn't do anything. But we must have left something behind for Slovenia in these 25 years, for each region. And it's a good thing we're detecting this right now, and what we should do is we're not. First, we need to detect this and then we need to address these shortcomings. I believe today's climate is very good here too, I believe we all have this sincere desire to do so together. Not just for Pomurje, for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u97	As has already been said, I will read the last three debaters who have been reported in this regular part. Mr Marko Ferruga will be the first to be discussed, and Mr Janko Weber and Mr Franc Jurša will be prepared. Mr. Ferruga, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the team! However, I would like to start this debate on the law on development support for the Pomurska region in some other way. I totally agree, I support him, there's no problem here. I would light it up with one another. I have written four, five points, which may not have been so detailed in the debate, and it would also be good to discuss this matter with one another a little bit more. As the first point that has somehow proved to me in all these matters, the absorption option of the gloomy economy is whether it is too large or too small. There may be some reasons for this continuous fragmentation and extension to draw on these funds. Sort of. As a second point, I think this point is for European drawing and others, I will say the regions that may be a little behind are bad projects or projects that somehow do not meet those essential conditions. Perhaps there is a major problem with these unsustainable projects and that there is in fact no power to generate some work resources. The next question that is raised again in these matters and also shows that unemployment in the region has not changed significantly or has not fluctuated. Another such matter, which is of great interest to consider, is that not only through this law, but through other incentives given to the region through other levers, additional substantial resources have also been exhausted. From this we can conclude that all these millions invested in the Pomur region have not produced the best results, it is said that there is another possibility of optimisation and some greater efficiency. I am also saying this because, in previous discussions, it has been said that this has also been a social adjustment. I think that social adjustment is possible for a short period of time, but it is important to focus on some long-term determinants. For example, the law on coherent regional development and all others is that they contribute in the long term to reducing unemployment and at the same time create quality jobs. God forbid, with higher added value. But I'm saying, this is one process. Investments in machines or funds create jobs, but what happens when machines are bought abroad. And then we have another question: if the markets for these products and services that are produced do not find or are not. So it's all going up in the air. To sum it up, it's actually not enough just to know how to draw on these funds. We need to learn to make better use of them, optimize them, have good projects. Projects that enable employment and have some long-term continuity. To quickly pump up, get these funds and then shut down businesses, I don't think that's the point. The point is that the region lives to start pumping this as well as the heart, when it draws blood that circulates around the body, and then all the pores can get these multiplier effects that that region, specifically Pomurska, then create. And there are some good companies, there are some good practices, I hope that the others will follow. However, this means that these funds are truly being used and used effectively. And we are absolutely in favour of the Pomurska region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u99	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the context of the discussions relating to the law on development support to the Pomur region, I would first point out the extremely important role of the law, since before that, less developed regions had to compete with the more developed ones, how successful they would be in the calls for proposals, how much money they would acquire. And, of course, given that more developed regions have more resources and more opportunities to draw funds, differences in Slovenia have increased between less developed regions and the richer ones. The economic and financial crisis has also helped greatly. Here I can say that for the first time in the history of the independent Slovenia, the Social Democratic Government, which was at the time, reacted in a way that resulted in the creation of a special law on the Pomur region precisely for the reason that funds can be drawn only by this region and in which, in fact, others cannot be affected. This decision was truly historic in terms of ensuring coherent regional development. This was followed, of course, by legislative proposals for the remaining problems in the area, but an agreement was reached to adopt a so-called umbrella law on promoting coherent regional development, where the government could react when unemployment took place more than 17%. This could make the measures even more responsive, even faster, so that it is not particularly necessary to come to the National Assembly for the Adoption of a Special Law. In fact, this law constitutes a turning point in this respect, and it has also allowed consistent regional development to be redesigned, for example, the Pocolpje Programme, which includes Kočevsko and Belo Krajina, and also events with Yaskawo show that the benefits and more favourable conditions offered by this law for both the Pomursko region and the Pokolpje programme are those that attract investors. If we also look at the law on development support for the Pomur region, where it is very clearly stated that incentives can be used to establish an inter-enterprise education centre, a regional economic centre, raising the competitiveness of agriculture, a food processing industry, investing in infrastructure, geothermal energy, sustainable and competitive agriculture, tourism. All of these are programmes which certainly suggest that the validity of the law should be extended and also allow as many programmes to be implemented in all these areas. The means that will be available for this will, I am sure, also in this extended period, further encourage all actors in and outside the region to try to take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u101	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you. Once again, everyone, say good-bye! Given that I am most likely one of the last discussers, there has already been a lot of talk on this subject. From the very beginning, when we read the views of the parliamentary groups, it was clear that the majority support for this amendment of the law on post-moral development, if I so call it, would also be adopted. There's something I'd like to say. The concerns of the past have mainly been that too much resources will be spent on the preparation of some projects. And it is right that this fear has also been expressed. However, I would like to say that most of these funds were intended to promote initial investments in enterprises, even 91.20%, then to promote the development of human resources 1.9%, to social entrepreneurship 0.4% of the funds, to promote the region 3.1% and to prepare projects 3.2%. Thus, most of the funds can be safely claimed to have gone in the right direction and thus the number of employees is significantly higher than before the adoption of this law. At the same time, we can say that the Pomur region has somehow evolved and reduced its backlog. Nevertheless, some indicators are clear that, even in this period, some regions, the central region and some other regions are still lagging behind and that this difference is growing. Then I ask myself, as well as you, my respectable colleagues, the question: What would happen if this law were not there? We'd be lagging behind even more significantly. I must also say that in some way I am proud that we adopted this law at the time in 2010, and that in that team of Members and Members from the Pomeranian region, we have also actively and constructively cooperated to convince the social democratic government of that time, as my predecessor, Janko Weber, has said, this is also a great result for the urban space. And thank you to all those who are still trying today to help the least develop the region in the country. There was also talk about employment, what unemployment we have at the moment and what unemployment we have had in the past. You know, the biggest blow to Pomur was the loss of Mura and it was the loss of Pomurka. But you know what the biggest problem was? The biggest problem was that Mura was slowly dying. In fact, in some way she was doing even greater problems than they would have if at some point it had happened and then people would have been directed to other professions. True, it is very difficult to use these skills in some other professions. But a lot of these people have found themselves, and in some ways the closeness of Austria has helped people to get jobs there. At the moment, we still have a lot of unemployment in the Murska Sobota Administrative Unit and in the Lendava Administrative Unit, more than 17%. A little less, but irrelevant, is also unemployment in the Administrative Unit of Ljutomer and Gornja Radgon and, of course, Ormož, which does not belong in the premises of Pomurje or, if you want, Prekmurje and Prlekije, but was then connected to this law, because there were also things happening, I must say, very difficult things and even at this moment some things are happening in Ormož and there a lot of people are losing their jobs. In fact, the gross social product has also grown in Pomour if I compare 2014 and 2015, but I must say it is still lagging behind compared to central Slovenia. We have an average of 69% in 2013, 68% in 2014 and 66.5% in 2015. Therefore, the question I raised earlier is very important if there was no such support, then what would be happening in Pomour today. Speaking of which, I can't get past the pomura plumbing. You know, the first contract for the construction of the Pomeranian water pipeline of all the municipalities of Pomur, except the Lommer, from which I come, was signed in 2005. From 2005 until 2010, nothing happened on the project. And I'm not gonna be talking about who did it. But at the same time, Members from the Pomur region, as well as from the Ormož area, found that this matter must be written in law. The law itself had nothing to do with this because you know how this project was financed. From cohesion funds, from state funds, from such a different country's address and partly from municipal budgets. This investment also began following the adoption of this law. 120 thousand households received healthy drinking water in their households. Errors have been made on this project, they have to be corrected and they need to be corrected and reviewed to see if all flow is in line with the standards that we prescribe here and are being implemented somewhere. These must be pure things, as the Prleki like to say, and Prekmurci like pure wine. And if so, the authorities must investigate and determine if there are any errors because this is often the case in some debates of individual Members. As construction works were being built in Pomura in the area of the waterworks, I must say that quite a number of people received employment during that period, as more or less Slovenian companies were doing so and people also had an appropriate job and also an appropriate salary. Once again, I said this earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, we will accept this proposal in our Group of Members, despite the fact that Members of Pomurje would prefer to be present in preparation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much to all the discussers. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which Mr Jožef Horvat is also given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you all, dear colleagues, for supporting this pomur law. Thanks again, Vladi. Once again, I believe that the decision in the Government was not in itself premeditated that it was not trivial, that it must have had to be argued why it was so. I say once again, this is the draft of the National Assembly, this is the project of the Pomerania Members, in fact, it doesn't matter for any law who filed it, who signed it, at least I don't expose anyone who is the author. We are all here to decide in the end, and I hope that in this spirit, like today's branches of this debate, we will also decide. It's true, in Pomure, we had Mura. Mura was once the largest European hairdresser. During her best years, Mura had 6,000,250 employees. Before that, Pomurka or SOZD ABC Pomurka fell and so on and so on. Certainly not everything on the basis of wrong business decisions. Almost not! This is where it is best to see that globalisation has struck, but it claims its victims. If we look at the numbers now, if we look at the number of employees in the year before the crisis, in 2008 – I obtained the data two days ago from the competent services in the Murska Saturday and thank them, in 2008, independent entrepreneurs and companies in the statistical region of Pomurje, once again, let us not be offended by Ormož and St. Tomaž and Drava Centre – 23 000 623 people were employed in Pomurje. We are going to the following year, when the crisis hit, when Mura fell in 2009, and the number of employees was only 19 000 364. That's 4 thousand 268 less than last year. So this year we lost 4 thousand 268 jobs. There was this disaster, this terrible wound. Yes, this was certainly also the motivation that France Jursa was talking about, that the Government passed a law in October 2009 which entered into force on January 1st 2010, and here we see a slight increase in the number of employees, by about 240. We'll come to 19 thousand 600. And then in 2011 raise to 19 thousand 794. In 2012 we recorded a fall of 18 thousand 813. In 2013 again fell, 18 thousand 432 employees. In 2014 we reach the bottom – 17 thousand 247 and 2015 is once again raising 17 thousand 905. So this law worked, and I'm also glad that it didn't go too much money into papers, into various labs and so on. I remember those discussions, although I was not at the time, in 2009, that various development laboratories should not be unnecessarily financed, but that money should go to specific projects that will have a direct impact on the increase in the number of employees. My colleague Marko Ferruga has very structured his debate on the absorption capacity of the pomura economy. Here I have somehow sensed that we have different views or different information. I, my colleague Andreja Potočnik, when calling on the committee to chair it, propose to invite also the Pomur Chamber of Economics, which is certainly the most competent body to tell us how the absorption capacity of this money is in this programme to promote competitiveness. Member States cannot and must not affect the invitation to tender, the content of the invitations to tender. Here, too, the ministry of Pomurje, the institutions of Pomurje, must somehow agree on how this money will best be spent. Sometimes I listen to comments about why there is no money for the new construction of some production spaces, sometimes I hear comments about why there is no money in calls for the purchase of already existing empty facilities, because production could develop. There's too many of them, too many empty spaces and so on. As far as the number of employees is concerned, as my colleague Ferlug also talked about, I have previously presented the numbers of the competent service accompanying the number of unemployed in our region. Well, thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u105	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I find that no, so I am concluding the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item, as well as the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3:50 p.m., which will be in half an hour, 15.50 p.m. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u106	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 8, 12, 14, 17, 1 and 18 items of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on mandatory testing of banned drugs. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on mandatory testing of banned drugs officials is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Group of Members, we will also support this law, which we have tabled. Today's debate has made it clear that no one at any substantive level opposes this law. Many discussions have touched on individual implementations in the law itself, which can also be complemented and improved in the process below. From this point of view, it is clear that this is a first reading and in the first reading, there was a clear intention that the law could nevertheless be supported. It is a matter of regulating mandatory testing of drug-prohibited officials, as the current legislation does not allow this. We also made this clear during the debate this morning. If there is some awareness among us as officials that drugs are a problem, which has also been evident through discussions, and that dependence is both on drugs and later on the supplier in terms of the deterioration of some health criteria and also financial dependence, which may potentially affect the decision-making of some of the officials in the proceedings, if we have clearly identified it, it is also important that this can be resolved through law. The testing that we propose with this bill can eliminate all these anomalies. As I have said, if it is will, you will continue to support this first hearing, drop the law into the next stages, and then it is possible that all these comments, which have been expressed and which in some way can improve the law and only implementation, will be incorporated. As I said this morning, thank you for supporting the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u108	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Development Support to the Pomurska Region in the period 2010-2017. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region for the period 2010-2017 is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, the proposers of this amendment of the law, I would like to begin by thanking all of you, all the parliamentary parties who have expressed an understanding in the debate on the development problem of the 27 Pomur municipalities, the Ormož municipality, the Sveti Tomaž municipality and the Municipality of the Centre of Drava. I thank everyone for their support. Of course, I also thank Dr László Göncz and Robert Bettelli for their expressed support and, of course, thank you for the decision made yesterday by the Government at its meeting that this law on development support for the Pomur region should be extended. We proponents and also the Club of Pomura Members accept the Government's intention to extend the law not only to 2018, but also to 2019. This is supported and, of course, the New Slovenia Group will support this decision, a positive conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u110	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes in favour and no one opposed. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on the Economy as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a consultative referendum on limiting immigration and rejecting the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union. We decide on the following proposal for a decision: A consultation referendum is being held on limiting immigration and rejecting the quota system for the allocation of illegal migrants across the European Union. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 47. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. On the day-to-day basis, this is the confirmation of officially revised texts of the law on foreigners, the law on international protection and the law on the temporary protection of displaced persons. Officially purified texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Aliens Act is confirmed. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. In fact, I'm going to explain the votes for all three purified texts. Of course, it is a formality, a matter that is done when changes in the law are made, but in the United Left we will vote against these purified texts for one simple reason. It's about protesting over, I'll say, shameful legislation. All these three laws are nothing more than unacceptable, and we could say, at least to a certain extent, inhumane limitation of human rights, in general, of people fleeing wars. For this reason, we will reject these refined texts as a sign of protest.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u112	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you for your word! I'll make it shorter. Without a stranger and a fugitive, we wouldn't be sitting here today talking in this language with all our mistakes. Me as a Belokranjec dual, a parent and so on. This stranger is Primož Trubar, and in memory of him I will vote against him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u114	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the International Protection Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 4. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Law on the Temporary Protection of Displaced Persons is confirmed. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 4. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. This concludes this point of the daily reggae. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a discussion on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers and Secretary-General of the Government of 21. 3. 2017 is published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jernej Vrtovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Jerne Vrtovac's question on staffing in state-owned enterprises and companies responsible for the management of state property. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 42. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Dr Bojana Dobovška's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the questions sent by Dr Bojan Dobovška on the recruitment of the Hit casino company. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 18 votes in favour and 39 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenjak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenjak, on the situation in the area of illegal migration from 2015 to today. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The Group of Members will support this proposal for a decision. However, I must say that the issue that we are proposing as a point of the agenda is even more topical. The Turkish President has made it more or less clear that it is a matter of time before he starts sending illegal migrants to Europe. The latest information even says that it will decide next week because Greece has prepared to return the two contingents of illegal migrants back to Turkey and the question is whether they will accept them there or not. The issue is also topical, especially for a fundamental reason, as the documents concluded by this government are increasingly coming on a day, especially in contracts, such as those in Ankara or elsewhere in Maribor, the one in Velenje. All this data shows that the government literally but literally favors the position of these people. These contracts show that, I don't know, they have 5 meals a day, that it has to be a calorie value, that it has to be a certain composition, and I don't know what it is. Not to mention purchases for migrants, glass ceramic plates, then LCD TVs, condoms, like I told you the last time you got them. All of this shows that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the one hand is not prepared to take care of those people who are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and who live in poverty. We know how many there are. 40 years of working for the running lane brings 440 euros in pensions. A thousand 963 euros is a monthly cost for one asylum seeker. All this data is, of course, alarming data. I also presented some of this information yesterday to the Commissioner who threatened there from Europe when we adopted a law on foreigners. I just got the impression that I'm no longer convinced by myself of what he's writing and saying here and telling us about it in Slovenia. The question is current, the issue is also important from a security point of view if you want. The government's policy in this area is what will happen if there is a mass influx, as it was at the end of 2015 and at the beginning of 2016, this issue is also open, because I think we are not ready to close the border as we should be, and all the news I have listed with some kind of privileged position towards Slovenian citizens, all of which, in our opinion, requires a debate in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u116	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to come by, but when I hear so many false allegations again, all I have to say is, I was at this meeting with the Commissioner for Human Rights yesterday. He couldn't agree with what you said. A thousand 963 euros is a very manipulative number. He stressed that these people who do not have a social network have no home, have nothing and are in a much worse position than the poorest citizen of Slovenia. Therefore, we need to take them with more compassion and, above all, he has placed them on our hearts to be taken as an investment, because faster than these people will integrate into the environment, they will pay taxes faster. All those who were present, we heard that. We also read in the newspaper today that he is not most pleased with our attitude toward refugees. There was also a great deal of hate speech in this Chamber yesterday, which the Commissioner does not approve of. I absolutely cannot agree to such a rhetoric of intimidation of people and some spontaneous demonstrations against housing centers. Our human duty is to be solidarity, compassionate. At a time when really 300,000 Slovenians live below the threshold of poverty, it is not so difficult to influence their feelings, especially with such data as they do not hold. So in the name of reason, solidarity and compassion, in the United Left, we will absolutely vote against this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u118	Two others applied for an explanation on their own behalf. Then you'll check in. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to call either, but it stabbed me yesterday or in fact the day before, when we talked about it, it's about kids, but it's about kindergartens, the word "child investment". Now I've been stabbed by the word "refugee investment." For me, a person is a lot more than just an investment. This country needs a serious immigration policy, along with a number of policies, as I mentioned at the last item on the agenda of this meeting. However, it needs not only Slovenia, but also the European Union needs another and a different political economy, which will look at the human being more than just an investment, and if I touch another agenda item, it needs fewer alcoholics in key decision-making positions. Why would I vote against it, but I spent seven hours explaining it to the committee when we discussed the Foreigners Act. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u120	An explanation in his own name, Mr Andrej Chuš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. I also had no intention of discussing myself, and I did not apply for a presentation or explanation when I proposed a proposal for an advisory referendum on the rejection of migrant quotas, but I have to respond to that. I think that the debate that took place yesterday at the meeting of the National Assembly was in some contexts of a patient debate based mainly on the facts and positions that each political party can have, as it represents itself. I will also say that, as the proposer of this referendum, I have tried and tried to keep the debate at its level and I think that we all agree that it has remained. Of course, we have quite a few Members and Members, who often go outside the framework. I usually recognize extremists by calling other people extremists. I also recognized something similar in this debate, Mrs Tomić. However, Members, we must always do what we say. When initiatives for the reception of migrants or refugees were launched in Slovenia, however you wish, the representatives of the United Left did not come forward to accept any. When the Members of the United Left fought in front of Parliament: Members to the minimum, they slobbered, but when they crossed that threshold, everything was quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u122	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jan Mahnic. First I give my word for it, then you get procedural. [[advertising from the hall]] Did you get that before? Okay. Gradually, Luca Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you. I don't know what that had to do with the explanation of the parliamentary vote. However, I call on you, President, that I do not know why you are not alone, as you are now to point out, that the explanations of votes are not the place for the controversy that we have just heard. Especially not for inappropriate controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u124	Everything that was in this House today at the point of explanation of vote was such or different controversy with something. [[advertising from the hall]] Should we take a ten - minute break to calm down? We can take a ten-minute break to calm down. I don't have a problem with that. We can proceed with the procedure. And we're gonna have a little break. And we'll vote to the end later. Is that what you want? Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, chairman. I ask you to excuse yourself because in today's explanations, I have not disputed any of my voices. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u126	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you, President. My colleagues and colleagues, I myself will support the proposal for a debate tabled by Dr Vinko Gorenak. I will support it in particular because, in fact, on Monday's issue to the President of the Government, he cited the facts. He cited the facts from the invitation to tender issued by the Government. He's got everything he's got on him. And he also holds the number of a thousand 963 euros for one migrant or asylum seeker. This is the number presented by the Court of Auditors. They have the data, and I trust the data they are. I believe that this should be discussed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u128	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. A thousand €963 per month for every illegal migrant is a huge amount, ladies and gentlemen. This is the amount that is greater than the amount that the entire Slovenian family has to spend a month with. And to say that this is something that is, in fact, minimal, which is reasonable, I cannot agree with. Ladies and gentlemen, just two months ago, we were able to read how someone died of hypothermia because they didn't have money for chicken. Ask the patients how many cases of hypothermia there were, because such a severe winter surprised people, and then in financial distress the entire family could not buy heating fuel in such a short time. You could have read about how they were working out of a single mother's apartment that week, and how they robbed someone who had leukemia. And according to a report that was official on the Internet, you could find him, it looked like he even got his medical equipment ripped off. As far as it's possible, I can't imagine. That's inhuman! And, ladies and gentlemen, in that amount, EUR 963 000 is not really covered by the €170,000 they give, so that I will not say another word from the Government for NGOs for legal advice to migrants. In view of this, every migrant costs, in fact, thousands of EUR 980 per month, of Slovenian taxpayers. And as long as these are the social cases that I've been talking about, which I've just presented here, which you can check with documents on the Internet, it's inhuman, it's false humanism to the detriment of Slovenes, Slovenes, citizens and citizens, to the detriment of the Slovenian nation. And that's not human. That is why, of course, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u130	A self-explanation of the vote, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u131	Nor would this intervention be necessary if you did not allow Mrs Tomic's controversy with me, which I did not start, as you know. Yesterday we were both at one meeting with the Commissioner, and we must have heard something else. In addition to what you were saying, of course, he also spoke about this in the context of the Foreign Act, so he had to write a letter for each country. Which makes sense, given his function. Anyway, I wouldn't have earned a salary anyway. That's one thing. I was ashamed, you know, yesterday in front of the commissioner because you introduced Dr. Jaklič as a criminal. Yes, gentlemen of the United Left, as a criminal, you introduced him. And I was embarrassed. That's one thing. And secondly, you argue with me that I did not provide accurate information and that the data is misleading. There are thousands of €963 on the 40th page of the Court of Auditors' report, the second line from top to bottom on the left. And before that, it says something else. It says: “at least a thousand 963”. Other things, TVs, washing machines and stuff, you have in a public invitation, because it says what it is. If you can read, you can read it. Let me conclude here: a thousand 963 euros. Last time I spoke to someone who said, "I'm going to my retirement. You know, I'm going to get the farthest pension that this country officially recognises." When I looked at the documents, it said: a thousand 755 euros. 1,000 €755 is the highest pension in Slovenia. You can't get any higher. For an illegal migrant, we give a thousand 963. How many people live below the poverty line, you know. How many people get less than 400 euros in pensions, and you know it. Or less than €660. Don't get carried away. The numbers are correct. I'll support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u132	We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 44. (For the vote was 15.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to Mr Jana Mahnič's question on relations between the US and the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 46. (For the vote was 18.)(against 46.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Andrej Couch's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science, Sport Dr Maje Makovec Brenčič to Mr Andrej Couch's question on the situation of young people. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 44. (For the vote was 18.)(against 44.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mahnič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Defence Andreja Katič to Mr Jana Mahnič's question on the situation in the Slovenian Army. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Mr Jan Mahnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, President. The situation in the Slovenian Army is worse from day to day. However, the Minister of Defence, Mrs Andreja Katič, has done nothing to improve the situation. So again we have witnessed a negative assessment of the readiness to fight, to carry out the basic task under Article 37 of the Defence Act, this is an armed struggle in the event of an attack on the country. Instead, the minister deals with herself, the ministry deals with itself. The Ministry is the target of various lobbying within the SD party, so the work is virtually disabled. Members of Parliament are receiving documents that somehow define the further path of the defence system, which are completely inconsistent. We are getting documents saying that by 2025 a billion euros will have to be provided to establish two medium-sized battalion fighting groups, while at the same time we get the government's decision on 20 to 30 million euros each year to defend ourselves. In short, we don't know where our defense system is headed or, on the other hand, we know exactly where it is: directly into failure. After a year of debate at the National Assembly last year on the situation in the Slovenian Army, where the Defence Force Commander President Borut Pahor presented his position, and nothing has happened this year, it is time for Members and Members to discuss this pressing issue again. That is why we will support this requirement in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u134	We're voting. There were 64 Members and Members present, 17 Members voted in favour and 45 against them. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič to Mr Miha Kordiš's question on financing compulsory education in private schools. We're voting. There were 59 Members and Members present, with 15 Members voting against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Karl Erjavac's response to the question of mags. Andrej Širclja in relation to the future of the European Union. We're voting. There were 64 Members and Members present, 17 Members voted in favour and 45 against them. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Zvonk Lah's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić, to Mr Zvonk Lah's question on the construction of the second track and the transport strategy. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, the government has been designing a second railway line from Kopra to Divaca for more than 20 years. It's one track. In 2010, the value of this project was 600 million, in 2015 a billion 400. Once again, it's one track. At that time, a group of domestic experts took on new, innovative options, where two tracks were involved, an investment that would have been built in half the time and half the money. When this option was presented, it all of a sudden began to rush. A financing law has been proposed quickly. Although this option would have been built in half the time, the minister's main excuse is to put it back into space for 10 years. I think that Slovenia has too little money for other projects to just throw it away, to go 20 years of age and build 8 years for a billion 400 or more. Further, since it is only one track, over time we built another track that is urgently needed because it will not go through this old track indefinitely. It is said that someone has “set up” how they will spend state money for the next 15 years for 30 kilometres of rail track, while we need to reconstruct the entire railway across Slovenia if we are to join these European corridors and also the TEN-T criteria. That is why I think it is right to discuss this in order to compare both options. I think that within two years a new option can also be placed in the space if we decide about it, and all projects are prepared, and it will still be built before this first one, the Government, and for less money. It is only the will to respect the domestic profession that proves itself elsewhere in the world, including the technical, not just the other. That is why I think we are at a time when we need to listen to them and take a closer look at the project and take into account both proposals. Let the government present its, for a billion or a billion 400, with a bunch of unknowns, because it goes 20 kilometers of tunnels through the karst terrain and can still be some Postojna pit in between, and it will be even more expensive and more time will be built. In the second variant, it's only 4.1 kilometers of tunnel. I will vote in favour of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u136	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 40. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Anžet Logar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Anton Peršak, to the question by Dr Anžet Logar, on the autonomy of the Slovenian Public Institute of Philharmonic. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you. I asked the Minister of Culture about his crusade on one of the most successful public institutions in Slovenia, the Slovenian Philharmonic, which in 2016 had a surplus of more than 200 000 euros in revenue, and yet in some dispute currently before the court, he actively put trade unions on the side and also accepted the rhetoric of trade unions, saying that this director should be removed from the head of this public institution. Let's remember how this minister came to be the head of the Ministry. When former Minister Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, taking into account the professional criteria, rejected the financing of five miners from Idria, I do not know who apparently had to leave. When this minister came to the head of the Ministry, he quickly signed the financing of those miners and apparently secured immunity at that Ministry, so that he could be free of charge today on behalf of trade unions by public institutions. Instead of waiting as the minister responsible for the heads of public institutions to argue with the parties in court, he once again took the stand for strike unions and adopted an amended act, which even theatre officials said was in fact a failure, a poor act of self-government and a return to the management of public institutions in the past. Therefore, I think it is necessary, given the lack of manner of the Minister for Culture, which is also contrary to your contract of work for the 2014–2018 term, which explicitly underlines the autonomy of public institutions, to hold a debate here even because the Minister himself has acknowledged that he has engaged in pure personnel only in this public institution and that he will obviously not exercise his powers in other public institutions. I therefore believe that this public debate must be held and that the Slovenian Democratic Party will vote in favour of this proposal for a public debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u138	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Jelka Godec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to Jelka Godec's question on the financial loss of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's question on the question of paying the difference to the minimum wage. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Andrej Čuš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Zdravko Počvalska, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, on the question of the issue of the dismissal of employees in the company Safilo Ormož. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to the question of Mr Franz Breznik, on the results of the work of the Slovenian representative at the United Nations Organisation for the World Trade Organisation. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 43. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to the question of mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar in connection with the abolition of the health care system of doctors and the financial reinforcement of public health homes and hospitals. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc to Violet Tomić's question on the implementation of the decision of the Health Committee and the amendment of the Regulation on the classification of illicit drugs. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u139	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We know that more than half of cancer patients are treated with hemp. These people are left to the black market and are stigmatized. Doses and the correct content are known to be difficult to determine. So the Medical Chamber also turned to us and we aligned the proposal with SMC, Desus, Unbound, United Left and so on. That's how we're with the Ministry of Health 7. Ten. 2016 have ordered that within 60 days it arranges all necessary to allow patients to receive these medicines legally and to transfer the plant from the first group of the most banned drugs. Within five months nothing happened and yesterday the regulation changed and the hemp was moved from the first group. They'll be able to meet up with resin-free spikes in pharmacies. What worries me is the next thing. It'll be imported. Once again, Bedrocan imports, a multinational, will produce this and regardless of the fact that according to the Israeli-Australian company Medical Grade Cannabis Slovenia has the best position to produce medical cannabis, we will again depend on imports. That is why I would like to know why the two other decisions which were unanimously adopted on this committee are not taken into account, namely, to ensure the appropriate legal basis and to amend the Regulation so that cannabis can be produced and processed for medical purposes in Slovenia, because, as we say, we have very good conditions for this. The Committees' conclusions are supposed to be somehow realized and it is a pity that the Ministry takes five months to implement one decision and the other two remain unrealised. That is why, of course, we are proposing a public debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-03-24-SDZ7-Redna-28.ana.u140	We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] It notes that the decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravko's response to the question of Mr Franz Breznik's question on the results of economic diplomacy. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 18th item of the agenda, these are Mandate-Voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal to establish the termination of the term of office of members and the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d. d. Within this point, the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding shall be informed of the termination of the term of office of the two members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding and the proposal of the Government. With regard to the Government's proposal to appoint two members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, I note that candidates for the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, Mr Željko Puljić and Mr Franc Žmavc, withdrew on 23 March 2017, so there are no formal conditions for its consideration. Their resignations have been received and published on the e-club. The proposal dealt with the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother's work, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to take stock of the decisions on the termination of the term of office of the two members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding and the proposal for decisions appointing two members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. The selection of the selection decisions by way of derogation from the nomination by the two candidates proposed will not be considered and will not be decided on. Having regard to the notices of the President of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding and the proposal of the Government of the Council of State and of the Council of State, it is proposed that, pursuant to Article 40(1) of the Law on Slovenian State Holding and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following conclusions be taken into account: Second: The National Assembly notes that Lidija Glavina is 22. 2. 2017 gave a derogation from the post of Supervisory Board member of the Slovenian State Holding Board, d.d., in order to appoint the President of the Management Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board, d. d., and therefore terminated its term of office as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding Board, d.d. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 28th meeting of the National Assembly.
