ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jelka Godec, Anja Bah Žibert, Teja Ljubič, Mag. Tanja Cink, Ludmila Novak, Violeta Tomić, Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Tomaž Gantar, Benedict Kopmajer, Tomaž Lisec, Jože Tanko, Branko Zorman, Simon Zajc, Saša Tabaković, Marko Ferluga, mag. Matej Tonin, Dr. László Göncz, Roberto Battelli, Igor Zorčič, Franc Breznik, Luka Mesec, Miha Kordiš, Franc Laj and Jerna Vrtovec. I invited the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar, Minister of Finance of Magi. Matejo Vraničnik Erman and other representatives of the government. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Tuesday, 3 October 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 48th Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving on to one. This is at the time of submission of the budget memorandum 2018-2019, the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. We are moving to the first part of the discussion and adoption of the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 in the National Assembly. Pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present the Budget Memorandum 2018-2019, a proposal for amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. There is no debate on this presentation. I give the floor to Dr Mir Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to present these budgetary documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-48.ana.u2	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the draft amending budget for 2018 and the draft budget for 2019. In preparing both documents, our leadership was to ensure the stability of public finances, which is an additional challenge in the last year before the elections. Nevertheless, I am pleased to say that over the next two years we are planning a budget surplus of €50.9 million in 2018 and €53.8 million in 2019. This is how the objectives of this government's mandate have been achieved. However, the priorities I set out here last year are also being implemented. Our priorities remain also in the proposal for both budget documents: investing in infrastructure for better quality of life and work, investing in science and employment, strengthening the quality of health services and enhancing safety in the broadest sense. For these areas, almost €2.66 billion will be allocated to the 2018 budget and nearly €2.74 billion in 2019. The assessment of the implementation of this year's budget shows EUR 2.5 billion. The good news is that due to prudent policies and targeted measures and to favourable international economic conditions, we are witnessing relatively rapid economic growth and good prospects ahead. This gives us more opportunities to invest in people and the economy, and it is also a great responsibility. The draft amending budget for 2018 and the draft budget for 2019 before you are prepared to pursue the purpose of Article 148 of the Constitution and of the Fiscal Rule Act. This law provides for a gradual balance between the revenue and expenditure of the state's budgets until we reach the objective of medium-term balance of income and expenditure in the state's budget without debt. This is a difficult task, which requires not only a reduction of the deficit or the achievement of the surplus in public finances, but also the management of the amount and structure of public finances and the reduction of public debt. The economic situation in which we are shows that according to the SURS, the growth trend of the Slovenian economy has accelerated in 2016 and 2017, which will also affect growth dynamics and structures in 2018 and 2019. In the autumn economic forecast, Umar estimates a 4.4% growth this year, and in the next two years economic growth is expected to continue. For 2018, growth is projected at 3.9% and growth at 3.2% for 2019. The deficit of the sector, measured according to the ESA methodology, was 1.9 GDP in 2016 and is planned at 0.8 GDP for this year. As the circumstances have improved since April this year, when the National Assembly adopted the framework for the preparation of the budget of the 2018-2020 sector, and until the publication of the Ummarje autumn forecast, the Government has also prepared a proposal for amending the framework proposing an increase in the maximum amount of expenditure for the state budget and the CFSP and at the same time for the whole country sector. Thus, for the next year, instead of a target deficit of 0.2 GDP, the government proposes a target surplus of 0.4 GDP for the country's sector. This is what the Government proposes for next year instead of the target deficit of the state budget after a cash flow of 0.2 GDP for the target surplus of 0.1 GDP. The increase in the maximum expenditure of the State budget is expected to relieve pressure on the use of integral resources due to the projected higher expenditure financed from European funds. This will enable the budgetary spending of resources to continue to promote economic growth and preserve social and other legal rights, while allowing higher levels of CFSP expenditure to finance health services. The draft budgets for 2018 and 2019 shall take into account the new commitments of the State and the institutional changes resulting from the adoption of the 2018 budget. The guidelines for the implementation of the key policies described in the budgetary memorandum are also taken into account. Let me mention some: the tax policy is intended to support the ease of business and the fairness of burden-sharing; wage policy should gradually adapt to the economic situation; transfers to individuals and households should respond to the economic situation; the use of European funds should also be strengthened through recoveries and, last but not least, investments from public funds should be primarily on infrastructure. More information on the draft budgets for 2018 and 2019 will be provided by the Minister of Finance. I am convinced, however, that the proposed budgets in the given circumstances are properly set in the context of commitments and commitments made, so that they are a good basis for further development. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that the two draft budgets be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Mag. Mateji Vraničar Erman for further presentation of the budget memorandum 2018–2019, Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, distinguished President of the Government, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, fellow Ministers and Secretary of State! We have prepared a proposal for amending the budget for 2018 and the draft budget for 2019, taking into account the favourable and stable economic situation in both the international and the domestic environment. In the autumn economic forecast published last month, Umar also took into account the favourable expectations of economic operators in addition to these stable conditions. As a key reason for this year's acceleration of economic growth, Umar cited the high export growth and impact of higher state investments compared to last year. High export growth is not only due to foreign demand but also to a further improvement in export efficiency, which has been increasing since 2011. At the same time, domestic consumption will remain an important factor in growth. With favourable conditions in the labour market and consequently a high level of consumer confidence, we continue to expect an increase in household spending. In addition, private investment will be strengthened as a result of increasing demand and favourable investment conditions. Inflation is expected to move at around 2% in the coming years. The changed macroeconomic circumstances and the new assessment of the implementation of this year's budget have led to a renewed reflection on the level of government budget revenue that can be expected in 2018 and 2019 and the appropriate level of expenditure of the state budget and the budgets of other units of the sector, in line with the Fiscal Rule Act. The government estimates that the revenue of the state budget in 2018 will exceed by 4.4% the revenue estimates that were made last year when the initial budget for 2018 was adopted. Better macroeconomic circumstances call for a faster consolidation of public finances and a faster reduction of the public financial deficit. Therefore, despite this expected growth in revenue in the 2018 draft budget, we are only planning to spend 0.6% of our expenditure on the approved 2018 budget. Nominally, this means that in the draft amending budget for 2018, revenues of 9 billion 676 million are planned and expenditure of slightly more than 9 billion 625 million. Accordingly, instead of the deficit planned in the approved 2018 budget of more than EUR 305 million, a surplus of EUR 50.9 million is now planned in the 2018 draft amending budget. It should be stressed, however, that the planned positive balance next year is also due to the fact that we have successfully drawn from the past financial perspective and that the final report and the eligibility of the use of European cohesion funds are 205 million retained resources, which we expect next year after the cash flow. The proposed increase in the ceiling of the expenditure of the State budget is also reflected in the proposal for amendments to the MFF. The proposal for amendments to the decree also proposes a higher level of expenditure for healthcare and for the whole sector of the country. We are also setting new targets with regard to the gradual fiscal consolidation in terms of a faster reduction of the deficit of the state budget and the sector by amending the decree. Our final objective remains to achieve the country's structural balance of public finances in 2020. This year's proposed package of budget documents shows the way in which we want to achieve our objective. In short, 2019. In the 2019 draft budget, we estimate that revenue will be realised at EUR 9 billion 750 million and, on the other hand, expenditure is planned at EUR 9 billion 697 million, which is 0.7% more than for 2018. This is also the way in the 2019 budget proposal a surplus of €53.8 million is planned. Taking into account the projected payment of the retained European funds of the old financial perspective in 2008, the expected surplus in 2019 represents an improvement in the A balance sheet of the state budget or fiscal effort of EUR 208 million. Since November 2016, when the 2018 budget has been adopted, new commitments have been made for the country to change the structure of budgetary expenditure. Certain decisions have also been taken that have led to institutional changes. And all these changes are also reflected in the proposed changes. In addition to the legal obligations and strategic orientations resulting from strategies and national programmes, the preparation of draft budgets and financial plans of budgetary users has taken into account the guidelines on key policies and priorities as described in the budgetary memorandum and has been taken up briefly by the President of the Government. The draft budgets take into account the solutions already agreed upon by the unions and therefore for 2018 there are higher payments for labour costs due to the progress made this year and higher job classifications due to the abolition of the anomalies. For 2019, the Government has taken into account the economic capabilities and objectives for further fiscal consolidation, but negotiations on some of the still open issues concerning the elimination of salary system abnormalities and the gradual elimination of restrictive measures to manage labour costs are still under way. In the negotiations with the public sector unions, the government will seek to reach an appropriate agreement that will allow for a controlled increase in expenditure in the area of labour costs. The level of transfers to individuals and households is expected to reflect the situation in the economy and, due to the favourable situation in the labour market in the coming year, slightly lower transfers are planned for the unemployed, while other transfers to individuals and households, in particular social transfers and family benefits, will be slightly higher, although some restrictive measures have not yet been automatically released in the coming year. Nevertheless, the largest share of planned transfers to individuals and households will be devoted to these transfers, namely social and family benefits. In the following year, in the area of pension protection, a regular reconciliation of pensions and extraordinary pensions is planned, namely 1.1% in April. It is also planned to pay the annual allowance to all pensioners. These solutions will have a significant impact on the level of transfer provided by the state budget to the pension fund. During the budget year, 905 million European funds are planned and 895 million European funds are planned in 2019. The main focus is on cohesion policy projects and the programmes of the common agricultural and fisheries policy. Since the availability of funds in this financial perspective is smaller, it will also be necessary to make the most of the available funding resources, and therefore the so-called financial instruments, including credits, microcredits, guarantees and equity financing, will be implemented, in accordance with the Fund's principle. The transfer of funds to the Fund is planned to total EUR 235 million in four tranches. Financial instruments will be implemented in the fields of research, development and innovation of small and medium-sized enterprises, energy efficiency and urban development. However, it is important to note the news that due to its nature of return, this part of the funds is not reflected in the State budget but will be shown at the end of the year in the balance sheet. The budget package therefore adds a document describing the content, objectives and amounts of financial instruments, so that you can also discuss this part of the cohesion envelope during the budget debate. Compared to the evaluation of this year's implementation, investments and investment transfers are increasing by 28% in the coming year. They are planned at EUR 945 million. In 2019, however, an estimated €887 million is planned. In the programme areas, the most resources are planned in transport and transport infrastructure. This is followed by environmental protection and environmental infrastructure, agriculture, energy sources and energy efficiency, health care and education, science and sport. Transport infrastructure is recognised as one of the conditions for the equitable development of Slovenia, which enables the economy to be properly provided and the mobility of the population. Upgrading and modernisation of railway infrastructure and road links are therefore one of the priorities in budget planning as they contribute to better quality of life and work. Thus, the biggest investment project planned to take place in the next two years is the new railway connection Divaca-Koper. For it, the funds are provided in the B balance sheet. Transport infrastructure projects, which will be most heavily funded as state priorities over the next two years, include the upgrading of the Zidani Bridge-Celje railway section, the second phase, EUR 110 million, the construction of the second track on the Maribor-Sentilj route, the second phase, the EUR 74 million, and the reconstruction of the Prague railway station of EUR 62 million. Over the next two years, we will provide 3% of the total eligible expenditure for reimbursement and just as much for grants for co-financing of municipalities from the state budget. In the nominal amount, this amounts to some more than 33 million for each transfer group. An average of EUR 551 is foreseen for the financing of appropriate spending in the coming year, which is 15 euros more than was foreseen last year and 558 euros in 2019. Since the appropriate consumption of municipalities is financed by 54% of the income of the previous year, due to the favourable growth of the revenue provided for in this title, we have tried to get as close as possible by means of a proposal to the municipal association within the framework of fiscal constraints. The priorities for which more resources are allocated in the proposed budgets for the next two years in addition to investments are investment in science and the information society, which contributes to increasing the competitiveness and added value of the economy through measures to promote innovation and technologically advanced products and services; the defence budget, due to the changed security situation requiring more adequate defence capabilities against security threats; the improvement of the readiness and sustainability of the Slovenian Armed Forces; and the achievement of common objectives and commitments within the European Union and NATO. The healthcare system is the third in a series of these priorities, in which the National Assembly has already held a debate last year on a number of government legislative proposals that provide a normative basis for changes in the provision of effective health care for all. This year, too, the Interventions Act will provide for the financial stability of public health institutions for the past losses of hospitals, and proposals for measures will also be drawn up to allow for an increase in the prices of health services in 2018. Taking into account the legislation adopted, it strengthens the financing of the medical treasury by transferring the payment of non-health services from the State budget, and will also need to eliminate the anomaly concerning the payment of health care contributions when the insured person is exempt from payment of the contribution under a specific law. Let me briefly present the framework for drawing up balance B, this is the balance sheet of financial claims, and balance sheet C, the balance sheet of the financing account. In the accounts of financial claims and investments, i.e. in so-called B-billion, no other remuneration other than privatisation purchases shall be planned on the remuneration side of the precautionary principle. However, on the expenditure side, recapitalisations and clarifications are planned, among which funds are still allocated for the payment of old foreign exchange deposits. In the two years ahead, some deficits are planned in B-balance sheet due to these expected additional recapitalisation or loan requirements. With regard to the C balance sheet, however, it should be pointed out that the State's share of the State's budget in the sector debt represents the largest share at the end of the first half of this year was 68.2% of GDP. The financing account provides for repayments in the State budget at a level consistent with the maturity dynamics of the principals of the bonds and the loans hired, with EUR 1.8 billion foreseen in 2018 and some less than EUR 3 billion in 2019. The financing of debt and B-balance deficits will require a debt of €2.3 billion in 2018, and we also anticipate the use of the funds currently in the account, amounting to €800 million. However, the use of funds in the account is not foreseen in 2019 and a debt of EUR 3.3 billion will therefore be required. Budgets over the next two years show the results of sound government debt management in the area of interest expenditure, which mainly reflects the reduction of the budget expenditure on interest payments. In view of the 2018 budget adopted, the planned interest payment expenditure is reduced by EUR 100 million or 11.4% to EUR 856 million in the draft budget for 2019 and the planned interest payment expenditure is reduced by EUR 32 million, or 3.8%, to EUR 823 million in the draft budget for 2019. Since sound finances are a prerequisite for creating a competitive and stable business environment, expectations need to be aligned with actual options. The draft budgets have been prepared with regard to public financial stability, to which we are bound by the Constitution and the fiscal rule law. We are also pursuing the objectives of ensuring that the budgets are properly targeted and that a stable public financial environment can continue to grow, while at the same time providing funding for public services and taking into account the needs of individual population groups. I believe that with the draft budgets for 2018 and 2019, we have managed to strike a balance between the priorities mentioned above and that they are the appropriate basis for our further development. Of course, I must point out once again that the proposed budgets show significant progress in the quality of Slovenian public finances, but they are by no means the final objective of fiscal rules. Nor should the current favourable situation deter us from planning and carrying out further structural reforms that will improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian business environment on the one hand and the long-term sustainability of public finances, including improving the efficiency of the use of public funds on the other. We must insist on further strengthening the public financial situation in the country and take advantage of the favourable macroeconomic situation to adequately reduce the structural public deficit and the volume of public debt. Action in this direction is essential that, as a country, the next establishment in the economic cycle will be ready with sufficient fiscal space to enable an effective response to the changed situation. That is why it is all the more important that we maintain the overall scope of public spending within a framework which, according to the economic power of our country, we can also sustainably finance. Your Honor! I am very pleased to be able to send two long-coordinated budgets to the National Assembly today, which have not been recorded with red color for decades. I wish you a good and constructive debate on this time's budget documents, and I want you to share the satisfaction with me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-05-SDZ7-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Thank you. This concludes the presentation of the budget memorandum 2018–2019, the draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. To the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr. Mir Cerar and Minister of Finance mag. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, thank you for the presentation. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Members and Members of Parliament, Members of the Parliament, interested working bodies and the Government may submit amendments to the Draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 no later than three days before the meeting of the National Assembly, at which the Draft amending budget will be considered. However, as regards the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, Members and Members of the Parliament and the working bodies concerned may submit amendments up to and including 16 October 2017. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
