ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mrs Nada Brinovšek, Mrs Vesna Vervega by 12 noon, Dr. Milan Brglez, Dr. Franc Trček, Mr Matjaž Hanžek, Dr. László Göncz until 14:00, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Ivan Škodnik by 12 noon, Mr Igor Zorčič, Mr Franz Laj, Dr Matej T. Vatovec by 12 noon. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u2	Mr. President-in-Office. Good morning, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party is once again proposing an amendment to the Banking Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the amendment of the Banking Act is necessary, as the fact is that Slovenia is one of the rare transition countries, which, for the second time in its short time, had to fix the banking system at the expense of taxpayers. The proposed law aims to obtain adequate data to enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt effective banking legislation to prevent irregularities and inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system. The proposed law also seeks to disclose the liability of those who have participated in lending without adequate guarantees in cases where the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The proposal to supplement the Banking Act, in particular, follows the principle of transparency and openness. The main solutions of the proposed law to make bank data that have so far been confidential available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly and the working bodies and investigative commissions operating within the National Assembly, if the bank data relates to a bank that has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which also makes important decisions regarding the resolution of banking problems, to obtain relevant information regarding the situation in the banking system, to identify who is responsible for the situation and, in particular, to adopt appropriate legislation that will effectively prevent future irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. It is also proposed that, in the event of the Bank’s termination, the obligation to protect confidential data no longer applies if it has received State aid within a period of 10 years prior to its termination or has been subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that it is fair for taxpayers to know why their money was spent – whether it is the fruit of reckless business moves or criminal acts. The last resolution of the banking system cost Slovenian taxpayers more than €5 billion. At a given time, however, we cannot be certain whether this number is definitive or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Miranda Groff Ferjančič, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! The proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act, which interferes with the protection of confidential bank data, is not supported by the Government because it still does not address the professional concerns that we have raised in the context of the previous three treatments of the law with similar content. Allow me to introduce them again in a short time. In order to effectively and autonomously identify and investigate the actual state of play for the exercise of the powers of the National Assembly, an institution of parliamentary investigation was established, whose function and content are specified in detail in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. Under this law, the National Assembly may also obtain confidential information from various stakeholders, including private legal entities, where such information is necessary for the adoption of legal and political decisions under its jurisdiction. Such interpretation of that law was also stated by the Constitutional Court in one of its 2000 decisions. Therefore, the parliamentary commission of inquiry may also require, in the context of the conduct of investigations, the submission of confidential data on the bank's committees, if necessary in order to achieve the objectives of the parliamentary investigation. The Bank of Slovenia may disclose bank information to the National Assembly in accordance with the statutory powers conferred on it when it exercises control over the operation of the Bank of Slovenia in respect of the performance of its tasks and powers in the exercise of its control and to the extent that it is necessary to provide individual confidential information for the exercise of control over the operation of the Bank of Slovenia. The third paragraph of Article 126 of this Law provides, inter alia, that the obligation of the bank to protect confidential information does not apply in other cases where the law expressly provides for the obligation of the bank to provide confidential information to the party. The Government therefore considers that the existing legal regime of the Banking Act is adequate and sufficient legal basis for the parliamentary commission of inquiry to obtain confidential bank data from both the Bank of Slovenia and banks, as well as from a private entity within its powers and given its mandate. Also, professional concerns about the proposal that the bank's obligation to protect confidential information would not apply in the event of bank termination remain the same. The applicant shall align all the termination procedures of the bank, both on a regular basis and on the basis of a joint decision, in order to ensure that the bank regularly and fully fulfils all its contractual obligations to the parties, as well as the forcible termination of the bank by reason of the bank's infringements, including either compulsory liquidation or bankruptcy of the bank. Since, in the event of a regular winding-up, the bank fully fulfils its contractual obligations and the termination is not a consequence of the infringements of the rules in force, the Government does not consider that there is any reason to justify public interest in retraining the confidential information of the Commissioner into information that the bank may disclose to the public. However, in order to force the bank to terminate, as a result of the alleged infringements of the rules on the part of the bank, a special provision is in place in the Bank's Rescue and Forced Cessation Act, which specifically regulates the publication of data on individual parties in order to protect the legal position of creditors in the enforcement process and thereby eliminates the confidentiality of such data. Nor does the draft law define a specific body or entity that could obtain data on banks' clients in those cases of termination, which could mean that data on banks' clients would be made available to the general public in the event of a regular or forcible termination of the bank. In view of all the above, I propose that you do not support the proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. In view of the fact that the applicant has already tabled the same proposal for the fourth time, the position of the United Left has not changed. We are in favour of democratic supervision of banks; even more so, we are in favour of public ownership and democratic governance of large banks. We advocate that banks also take into account non-commercial criteria such as employment, regional development and technological progress in their business. Of course, something like this is impossible if banks are privately owned and owners require them to make as much profits as possible. Demands for increasing profits are also the cause of banking crises, as all banks are demanding increasingly risky transactions due to increasing income requirements. Such risky transactions were also credits to church holding companies and local tycoons that caused the last Slovenian banking crisis. These transactions were also promoted by private owners of NKBM, NLB and other now-supported banks. All around them were encouraged by the then Yanshe government. I don't have time to list everything if I only touch the main moves. The Taiwanisation was encouraged by the acquisition legislation, which allowed the lease of the acquisition credit by setting up shares of the target company. It encouraged it by privatising Mercator types, as state and parastatal shares were not sold alone. That there will be no mistake, even under the current government of Cerara, the maintained banks seem very similar. Therefore, it is not enough to keep banks publicly owned. It is essential that we replace a profit motive with a development motive and remove from the governance of the country the policies that have brought us here where we are today. As we have said many times, the United Left does not defend bank secrecy. We supported the SDS proposal a long time ago so that the Court of Auditors could revise the Bank of Slovenia. In principle, we also support a similar solution prepared by the Ministry of Finance, provided that the Court of Auditors has access to all data. We also do not object to the fact that the National Assembly would have an insight into the business of banks, but not in the way SDS proposes. What's the problem? We are in favour of allowing investigative commissions to obtain all relevant information, but the condition is that there is an additional safeguard against misuse of such data for client purposes. This guardian is the judicial protection we have in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, but not in this law. Next. We are in favour of overseeing the National Assembly, but there must be a procedure for how the National Assembly or its committee can obtain this information. There must be a possibility for the court to reject this in case of abuse. We are socialists, therefore, for the National Assembly with certain security guards to have access to this data. However, we believe that it must have access to data from all banks, not just those who have received state aid. Because if we are really investigating political responsibility, then it must be investigated to the end, regardless of the bank's ownership. In short, of course, we are not so naive as to see where the dog prays to the taco, and as long as we have words, we will not leave access to sensitive data of innocent citizens to the various SDS commissions. It is also crystal clear to us that this law has not been introduced in order to be adopted. If there was any serious purpose here, the proposer would bring in those security guards, which can be easily copied from the current legislation, and it is clear to us that a three-hour mass will now follow. In it, the politicians who appointed the bank's leadership will privatise state-owned enterprises and guide all economic policy at the time of the bank's creation will preach to us that someone else is to blame. This sermon, of course, is of no interest to us in the United Left, and I seriously doubt that you're going to fuck anyone else with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A very nice greeting to all, dear colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting, ladies secretary of state! Colleagues and colleagues, just on the days when we are considering the proposal for the amendment of the Banking Act, we are again listening to variations on how to sell the NLB so as not to sell it. I would like to recall here, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, the document, the Slovenian Government's commitment, this is the European Commission's document of 18 December 2013, it has the number SA 33229, and with this document, the European Commission has allowed State aid to the New Ljubljana Bank of thousands of EUR 558 million. The Slovenian government, at the time, applies to this government too, and has committed itself to privatising the New Ljubljana Bank by the end of 2017, that is to say until 31. This year's 12th. We are concerned in New Slovenia when we listen to the statements made by the highest representatives of this government, including the President of the Government, that this moment is not suitable for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank for Brexit and other matters, but, of course, we also listen to the leadership of the New Ljubljana Bank, which says that Nova Ljubljanska Bank is in very good condition and that if a business entity is in good condition, it means that it has a good price and must be sold, not when we see it again, we find a new bank hole that we think is probably already emerging in the New Ljubljana Bank. This is so much more unusual if we take into account the fact that all citizens in our pockets have felt the billions of holes caused by the recapitalisation of several state banks. At the beginning of the debate on this bill, it should be made clear and clear that the best measure for the rational, economic and stable management of banks is their private ownership, and that is why Christian Democrats have been concerned about developments around the intention of rescheduling the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. In Novi Slovenija we say: more privatisation is equal to less corruption and I repeat the definition of privatisation: privatisation is the process of finding responsible owners. It is not difficult to understand the anger of taxpayers when they see that, despite each of them, each of us contributed around EUR 2 000 500 to the recapitalisation hole. Everyone! But banking crime trials are taking so long. The entire bank hole was not caused by crimes, but it certainly was a significant part of it. What is a society where the culprits for the billions of bank holes exist and walk freely around the country and there is no sanction for their conduct, as the law enforcement authorities could not enforce them. What do those who may be planning to commit new crimes in banking think at this time? That is what they think: So far, no one has answered for a bank hole why someone would answer in the future. That is why it is difficult to understand that the government coalition has not supported New Slovenia's proposals to specialise in the work of courts and prosecutors in the field of banking crime. This would ensure that actions within the law enforcement, investigation and prosecution procedures are carried out by the persons most qualified to do so. The government coalition has also rejected our proposal to prevent persons who, in the past, used to make non-profit claims to carry out casino banking from managing a function in the management or supervisory council of the bank. In the past, we have witnessed an obstacle to the work of the Investigative Commission on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, when the Court of Parliament's Investigative Commission refused to hand over the documents necessary for the investigation. By adopting the bill before us, bank data that have been confidential so far will be available for the purposes of the National Assembly if the bank data relates to a bank that has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. It is precisely in order to ensure the smooth work of the parliamentary commissions in investigating banking crime that the Christian Democrats will support the proposal of the amendment to the Banking Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Potočnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u10	President, thank you for your word. The first-signed group of Members, Mr Jozet Tank, re- tabled a law to the National Assembly, which had already been tabled in December 2013, February 2015 and December 2016. According to the law, the bank's obligation to protect confidential information would not apply if the bank received State aid, but was subject to measures under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and confidential data requires the National Assembly, the National Assembly's working body or the State Assembly's investigation committee. The obligation to protect confidential data would also not apply in the event of a bank’s termination, whether on a regular or compulsory basis, provided that such a bank has received State aid or has been subject to measures under the Bank’s Stability Act for a period of ten years prior to its termination. The proposed amendment to Article 126 of the Banking Act, as written, is controversial. The closure of bank secrecy for banks that have received State aid means that everyone could see all transactions and all accounts in the bank that received State aid. This means that it could cause business damage to banks there and the loss of customers. The Banking Act, ZBan-2, laid down the obligation to protect confidential information in Article 126 of the Law in a manner which provides that the Bank must provide confidential information if the data are required in writing by the Commission to prevent corruption or are required in writing by the Court, the State Prosecutor or the police, in order to carry out the pre-trial or criminal proceedings, unless the law expressly provides for the order of the investigating judge for the provision of confidential data. Thus, the Banking Act, ZBan-2, in Article 126, paragraph 2, legitimized the scope of access to confidential data in such a way that detection and prosecution authorities are always ensured their direct and rapid acquisition. Under this Article, however, banks are also exempt from the obligation to protect confidential data when another law provides for the competence of an individual authority or entity to obtain confidential information from banks for the purposes of exercising their legal powers, and therefore it is also possible to understand, under the Banking Act, ZBan-2, that the Commission of Inquiry is to obtain data under the procedures laid down in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. Thus, the method of obtaining data under the Law on Parliamentary Investigation is in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, which provides for the right of judicial protection. This solution, as set out in the proposal for a novel, is not to be followed. In order for Members themselves to have access to all credit agreements, however, it may be controversial. These data should be handled by relevant institutions, such as law enforcement, police, the prosecution and the NPU and the parliamentary commission of inquiry. As was the case in the previous draft law, there is again a dictatorship in this law in order to eliminate the confidentiality of the data at the time of the bank's regular or forced termination. We also find this proposal difficult to understand. A regular winding-up of the bank means that they are made on the basis of a decision taken at the assembly of the bank, but that bank still meets all its contractual obligations to the parties regularly and fully. It is so difficult to determine the public interest if no one was injured. Indeed, the activity is transferred to the new acquirer and all obligations are serviced on a regular basis, so that we do not understand why an intervention is proposed to banks that have had no problems and have ceased because of the owner's business decisions. In the parliamentary group, we support all efforts to prosecute and investigate banking crime. A number of measures have already been developed by the Government in this area. The Penal Code thus lays down higher prison sentences for corruption offences, extending the limitation period from 10 to 20 years for such acts, and in the National Assembly there is a proposal for a amendment to the Penal Code, which provides for changes in the criminal offence of abuse of the position or economic activity. This crime is the one that most often comes into play in the prosecution of the most responsible persons in the banking sector. For example, a proposal for a new Law on Criminal Procedure, which is also part of the National Assembly, sets out a clearer and simplified regime for faster collection of data by banks, savings banks and other financial institutions. It is also a solution in the proposal for a law that legal persons and entrepreneurs, as advertisers or prosecutors of criminal offences, will no longer be restricted to the protection of bank secrecy or the confidentiality of those data relevant to the criminal complaint. We can also mention that the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office provided a legal basis for the establishment of a special department for procedures for the confiscation of property of illegal origin by the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia. During the period of operation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia carried out the largest human resources reinforcement of state-owned species since independence, since it is from 15. 9. In 2015, 30 new state prosecutors and prosecutors swore a total of 33 since the launch of the mandate, representing about 15 % of the increase in the staffing area since the beginning of 2015. Of course, it is just a few of the measures that this government has taken. In the SMC Group, we will therefore vote against the fact that the draft law on the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the government, welcome! It will not take a month for the National Assembly not to consider any point in the area of banking in Slovenia. Today is again before us a proposal to supplement the amendments to the Banking Act, which we have tabled again in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Why again? Because we are convinced that the problem of banking in Slovenia is great and that the changes proposed in this law are necessary. Since Slovenia is a single country, another rehabilitation of the banking system has already been carried out, costing taxpayers more than EUR 5 billion. It's an extremely large number. The reasons for this, however, indicate, inter alia, that the legislation governing the operation of the banking system is flawed. The adoption of appropriate legislation that will enable effective control is the task and responsibility of us here sitting in the National Assembly. The proposed law thus aims to obtain adequate data to enable the National Assembly to adopt effective banking legislation to prevent irregularities and inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system. The proposed law also seeks to disclose the liability of those who have participated in the granting of loans without adequate guarantees, in cases where the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. With the proposed solution in the law before us, we propose that banking data, which have so far been confidential, be made available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly, the working bodies of the National Assembly and the investigative commissions operating within the National Assembly. However, this is only if the bank data relate to a bank that has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This will enable the National Assembly, which also takes important decisions on the resolution of banking problems, to obtain relevant information on the situation in the banking system, to identify who is responsible for the situation and, in particular, to adopt appropriate legislation that will effectively prevent future irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. In the law before us, it is also proposed that, in the event of a bank’s termination, whether it is a regular or forced termination, the obligation to protect confidential data shall no longer apply if the bank has received State aid or has been subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks within a period of 10 years prior to its termination. We understand that banking secrecy is the basis of the business between banks and their counterparts, and that, like each institution, the institution of banking secrecy must also have adequate safeguards to prevent abuses. The definition and handling of banking secrecy under the applicable legislation prevents competent institutions from effectively controlling the situation in the banking system. Finally, banking secrecy is often used as an excuse to conceal the wrong decisions of bank management, which were sometimes taken at the borders of legality or even beyond the limits of legality, and which is still not demonstrated by the inefficiency of the judicial system. In the past, the National Assembly of the Bank of Slovenia has already requested certain information on the situation in the banking system, but it has never been possible to determine the responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia, as well as the responsibilities of members of the supervisory boards and members of the management boards of business banks who signed and gave credit without adequate guarantees, often on the basis of various friendly, clientelistic and political links. Despite the fact that Article 152 of the Constitution provides, inter alia, that the Bank of Slovenia responds directly to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also worth noting that so far Banka Slovenije has not acted as regulator against any person who has granted loans that have not been adequately secured. Although we believe that the Banking Act currently in force provides for exceptions where the obligation to protect bank data is not valid, it is laid down that confidential information may be transmitted to authorities responsible for the supervision of bodies carrying out acts in the course of compulsory liquidation or bankruptcy, or in another similar procedure, but that there is no State Assembly among these authorities, even though it is competent to supervise the work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for the recapitalisation and transfer of poor claims to the Special Companies for the Management of Bank Claims, has carried out the rehabilitation or supervised liquidation of several six banks on the basis of stress tests in December 2013. Therefore, we believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should also be included among the authorities which can receive confidential information. The main reason for the adoption of this law is a change in the definition of bank secrecy, which will allow for the determination of liability for the situation in the banking system, thus determining who is responsible for paying more than EUR 5 billion for all errors and wrong decisions of the management of the Slovenian business banks and consequently insufficient supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, support the Banking Act which is before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! We have before us a renewed attempt to disclose data, which in our view would be a disproportionate intervention in banking secrecy. We will also oppose such a proposal in the Desus Group. Let us reiterate the key reasons why we believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Once again, the applicants did not seek to show a better comparative analysis of the other Member States of the European Union. Thus, in the analysis, we can see again the explanation of the burden sharing in the recapitalisation of banks and not the handling of confidential bank data. Such a display of regulation in other legal systems, unfortunately, has no further value in improving the understanding of the bill itself. We must stress that we already have a strong enough legal tool at our disposal to access confidential data. I am talking about the work of the investigative commission, which is investigating how they dug a bank hole and, above all, trying to identify who is responsible for the situation in the Slovenian banking system. The means used by the Commission of Inquiry in its operations are quality data or evidence. The key law through which this possibility is made possible is the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which provides that a parliamentary inquiry into the most sensitive areas is carried out through a court carrying out specific investigations or carrying out certain evidence. That is why we also have competent authorities and institutions in the country that are part of such tasks. Further disclosure of confidential information beyond the statutory powers of the commission of inquiry would, in our view, be inadmissible. It would cause further confusion, quickly increase the lack of confidence in the banking system, which would only make the bank's stability worse. Even in the Desus Group, we want the story of the bank hole to be quickly obtained and those responsible are responsible for their actions. We are convinced that the reasons for the bank hole must be defined, that in the future this or anything like that will never and never happen again. It is also essential to define the responsibility for multibillion-dollar recapitalisation. Therefore, we insisted that all of this should be enshrined in the coalition contract. The definition of liability for the damage that plagues our country is ultimately crucial to the legal establishment of trust in financial institutions, their supervisory authorities and, last but not least, the institution of the rule of law, which we repeat over and over again. However, this task must be carried out by the competent authorities and institutions. In the Desus Group, we believe that revealing the confidential personal data of individuals would open up room for political overuse and abuse, so we will vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The speaker has the floor, Mr Marko Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u16	Mr President, thank you for your floor. We have listened to the views of individual parliamentary groups and come to the realization that we can still expect our proposal to be supported today. I'm sad that the Social Democrats didn't even have a point of view. I mean, there are no representatives of the Social Democrats, and I think this is extremely irresponsible in the case of such a significant change in the law and in the fact that Slovenia had to rehabilitate the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. The last recovery cost taxpayers more than €5 billion, and the question is whether this figure is also final. I am not sure whether the proposed law, which we have tabled in the National Assembly as a party to the Slovenian Democratic Party, has, in particular, read definitively, whether only the professional services have written a position to them, since in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have decided to amend the proposed law as compared to the previous ones, in the event that the bank is wound up or shut down, that this applies only to that bank which has been saved on the basis of the taxpayer's money, not to other entities. In fact, no one in the position mentioned this. This means that this is not the same proposal as the Slovenian Democratic Party had previously tabled, but that we were also aware of the discussions in our previous proposal and we have taken a step in the other direction. Let's just look at the case, I don't know, and the Bank of Probanks. The gradual liquidation of the bank was made and to this account we taxpayers, say at the end of 2016, recapitalised DUTB due to the accession of Factor Bank and Probanka. This means that the reason and argument is probably large enough here. We have heard many times in our position, because today everything is fine, the competent authorities have access to confidential bank data. The Commission of Inquiry was also mentioned. Your Honor! I don't know if you live in any other world or if I don't know In the Slovenian Democratic Party, when our member of Dr. Ange Logar is successfully leading this commission – at least from his interview with Dr. Logar – this commission has a significant problem in obtaining this data. [[…]] Most of the data must be requested by the Commission of Inquiry through a court and, in a number of cases, the Court also rejects access to such data or requires further explanation by the court. I really don't know now. I don't know; in Desus' position, in the position of the Modern Centre Party, we've heard that the Commission of Inquiry has access to this data. Literally from this point of view, we could understand why in the Slovenian Democratic Party you are once again struggling with this law, why you are trying because everything is fine. At least in my opinion, the Commission of Inquiry has a significant problem with obtaining this data! And all data must be obtained through the court and, at any given time, at least on the publicly available data of the Commission of Inquiry, it also repeatedly rejects for such or other reasons. This means that the system is not the same as in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if there is tax money in the game, it would be necessary to be honest with taxpayers and here, I would say, throw the papers on the table. [[…]] Dear coalition, the word public interest has also emerged today. If you are in the private companies we witnessed last week, you are in the public interest; in private companies, when we have not invested even the euro of tax money, you are demanding the entry of a government representative or one of another, and then I am interested in what the public interest is in the five billion tax money that has been included in the last two years. But isn't this a public interest or something? You do not see the public interest in more than five billion taxpayers' money, and on the other hand, in Mercator, private society, you are very much in favour of the public interest and the entry of a representative of the 'government' into the Mercator administration. But here, I think, a well-respected coalition and all those who advocate, something is very wrong. You don't see the public interest in five billion taxpayers' money. It's sad! Initially, so much for the point of view itself. But it will probably be interesting to see the debate as well. I would point out once again, this is the first reading and I am sure that all 90 of us sitting in the National Assembly should be interested in having a transparent and effective Banking Act here. In my opinion, given all the events that have taken place in the Slovenian banking system, we do not have it, and we have the possibility here to supplement and amend this law. The vote in this last bill we tabled in December has also brought some optimism to the Slovenian Democratic Party. This was the main reason why we re tabled this amendment of the law and tabled it with an amendment; we did not re- table the same law as it was. I appeal to the well-respected coalition: we have two more hours and about 50 minutes to discuss to see what we can do to change together. Last but not least, there's a vote in the game.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Let's get Mr. Marko Ferruga ready. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! I agree with the proposaler's warning, or mag. Mark Pogačnik, who reminded us it was the first reading. The fact is, in our opinion, that this law needs to be amended in the second reading, and that is why we have such a procedure in the National Assembly. I am of the opinion that it would be very useful for this law to be adopted by the National Assembly and that banking secrecy is actually eliminated for those banks that have received State aid recapitalised by taxpayers and for those banks that are subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks; perhaps not for all the working bodies of the National Assembly, just for an investigative commission. But it's already a matter of second treatment, second reading of this marriage. But first we have to make this possible, so in the first reading, of course, we will support the marriage. Ladies and gentlemen, even this weekend, I have met many of our citizens who tell the Members what the problems are and also ask and shout, in fact, under the rule of law, but most of all in the case of banking crime. I agree that not all credits were donated, given, approved as criminal acts, but probably some. Look, it's not normal for a banker to sit down today – you know where. But to me, practically every day, even on weekends, when I am among my constituents, a little more among my citizens, and they ask me, take those who have taken us. We all know what 5 billion recapitalisation of state banks means, what development money could be, and we literally threw it into a hole. And more than that, the donkey goes on ice once, and we don't stick to that river. From 2007 until now, we have thrown 2.7 billion euros into the New Ljubljana Bank, lastly a thousand 558 million euros or, if you will, 1.56 billion euros. In New Slovenia, we will no longer give silence to banking criminals, and in fact – the legislator has to solve this – such acts must be prevented by legislation, but at the same time those responsible must be called to account and sent to prison for me to be very specific. However, I have a feeling that in this area of looking for responsible persons is the most important thing our parliamentary commission, led by Dr Logar, but this one also has limitations, is limited in its operation because it does not receive data on bank secrecy. Colleagues and colleagues, will anyone raise their hand now to keep the new and new ATMs quiet? Yeah, even political parties, you know! Let's do it one time! There's a country that's done this practically overnight. Why isn't she in love with you? When I really listen to these variations for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, there is also the Minister of Finance who turns himself into a liar. We don't know what's going to happen now, and that's what we're worried about.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Marjan Pojbič. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Bank hole and banking crime is a good political theme that has been used and worked over and over again for many years. In this particular case, I wonder what the point is. Is the purpose of this proposal a law that the National Assembly performs the tasks of the commission of inquiry or of the investigating bodies? I don't think this is the primary task of the National Assembly. However, if, I stress, the complainant, the responsible and paid institutions do not do what is right, then obviously there is nothing more than the establishment of an investigative commission in the National Assembly and assumes this task. And here, I think, is where the problems come in. Why? We have established law enforcement agencies, the police, the state prosecutor's office, and in the final stage of this most important – the judiciary. What is it now? The first problem I see here and everywhere, even in this area of economic crime, is the responsibility of the supervisory councils. To be specific, the supervisory boards of the banks. Here we also have the commitment that the supervisory councils are criminally and materially responsible, and as far as I know, none of these bank supervisors have been punished, not to mention other companies; and that is the problem. It's a big problem. The second problem I see in this economic and banking crime is the effectiveness of the judiciary. If we look at what has been done in this direction, in my opinion and apparently also in the opinion of most of Slovenia's inhabitants, it is not enough. I would expect an independent and so-called intellectual branch of government to see that it has problems with the legal basis, or if it sees that it is ineffective and does not propose amendments to this legislation to us, the National Assembly, then I do not understand what the difference of thinking is. It is absolutely unacceptable, however, that the perpetrators avoid liability by means of well-paid lawyers with legal acrobatics. Of course, politics absolutely bears part of its guilt, including us, even me at the final stage, and the second part of this story is that politics exploits these matters. If I wasn't just critical, I'd get to the stats. What do the police statistics show? I have obtained statistics since 31 March 2017, which is next. According to police units, 252 criminal charges have been filed and there are approximately a billion and some damages; 252 have been reported for bank offences this year and 46 have been recorded for crimes after years of detection. The total between 2013 and 2017 was 131 crimes and 75 reports. So some work was done by the police. When we talk about the specific part of the police, there are also certain questionable actions concerning the complaints of the Bank of Slovenia, the concealment of immunity within the Bank of Slovenia, this is because of this Protocol number 7 on the privileges and immunities of the European Union when the police proposed an investigation or carried out an investigation. In terms of assets of illegal origin, in 2016, according to my data, investigations were conducted for ten natural and legal persons and five persons were seized at a total value of 340 000, which I think is small. Worse or for me, it is very unusual that in the report, the Ministry of Justice on page 4, I quote : "In banking crime, the success of prosecution is still uncertain because the case law has not yet been established." People of God, what are we kidding? I mean, that's unacceptable! I mean, that's the way it's written for me. Because if we really want someone and what to chase, and that we don't have an established case-law in 2017, I don't know, then we probably have to call the fishermen from the sea and they'll tell the judges how to do it. I don't understand that. But not to be so critical of justice, certain novels and corrections to the Penal Code have been made that still indicate some correct understanding of persecution. So it's supposed to be established that bank secrecy will not be protected – I hope I don't know now. The Law on Systemic Investigations of Projects of State interest is a very interesting matter, which is still pending consideration in the National Assembly. That is also, if you want, very important for this second track. It is said to provide a legal basis for systematic investigations or detection and prevention of irregularities in the implementation of major investment projects, which is important. Novela ZIKS-1F, where conditions for the suspension of a prison sentence were stricter for health reasons. Thank God! Hallelujah! It's about time! Also the ZFPPIPP-G, where the possibility of abuse of the institution of liability in the context of personal bankruptcy was limited. We needed this too for a while. I also expect a new law enforcement policy from the new state prosecutor, and here he has every opportunity, because in this law, the ZDT-1 was also a choice. While we are still talking about the prosecution of these cases, it is very important that this law of the USSReg-F, where detection and prosecution authorities have the possibility of obtaining information on connected persons in companies. This is also very important. It has already been mentioned that the new 30 state prosecutors have been employed, it is said, very much of which is also expected and also from this establishment of a specialised court for economic crime. Thus, certain moves have been made, including this amendment of the Penal Code – 1E, which is also pending for treatment, which is very important for the forms of criminality dealt with in the criminal offence of abuse of position or trust in the conduct of companies, is Article 240 of the Penal Code. This is what will be taken into account in the pursuit of the most responsible persons in banking. So certain steps have been taken. Now, I think the ball is on the prosecution's side, and to the greatest extent, the courts are doing their job. So I hope that we are all thinking in the same direction, saying that the people responsible for this break were made by banks to answer and that there is no one outside the law, not even in Banka Slovenije. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. In opening, I must say that I am once again extremely disappointed with the coalition, the entire coalition, especially that today we are witnessing that the SD has not had any position on such an important issue when we are talking about the looting of the century. Here we have parliamentary groups – even talking about one of the most powerful groups in the next term – and on such an important issue that concerns every individual in this country, when it comes to banking, they did not have the position of the parliamentary group. Then I listen here to the debate of the United Left, which comes here in 2, 3 minutes and, among other things, say that for democratic supervision of banks, but they do not support anything that would help the authorities in this society – including the National Assembly – have the opportunity to help us get to the bottom of this mess. Then they leave their species, empty chairs — and you have no one else here. They're smart, they're trying to convince the Slovenian people how ah and they're even advocating for employees, for workers, for all those who create, and on the other hand, they're talking complete nonsense here, and not a single representative of the United Left is in Parliament. Then I'm very disappointed in Desus' debate. They are more interested in some comparative analyses in this law than in the essence of the problems we want to solve with this law. As the essence of the problem we want to solve with this law! They say that the reasons for the bank hole need to be defined. Yes, what reasons do you want to hear in the National Assembly, the representatives of Desus? I'm sorry, Mr Vice President. I'm very sorry. You didn't speak, but the lady spoke. But look at what else we want to know here about what was done when we had to make two recapitalisations, the last five billion euros. And you politicians sitting here with me like you're sitting on your ears like you're not listening! It's like you're not listening to what we're talking about and what we're trying to achieve in the Slovenian Democratic Party with this law. Then my colleague Ferlug – I don't mind, I must say, he had a very good discussion. I appreciate it! But he said, among other things, it's a good political theme. I agree with him here. But not only the political theme, my dear Ferluga, is the theme of every individual in this society, every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Slovenia! This topic, if necessary, must be on the agenda for 24 hours in order not to happen what a colleague from Nova Slovenije said is that people ask him every day, just like I do. They say, "Listen, Marian, what's the matter with you all?" And I have nothing to add to it. And I have to say, "Look, I'm sorry, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we're trying, we're trying to do something to make things change, but the coalition is jamming us all over the front." On the one hand, the coalition, on the other hand, is the judicial branch of power and the only commission led by Dr. Ange Logar is the one trying to move something in this area. We've heard here today that they can't get this data, they can't get that data, we have to go to the courts, the judge refuses to get the data, and so on and so forth. And then an ordinary man like me, no matter what I am, starts to wonder what's wrong with our society. Is it a reason not to get the right information, that everyone is connected? Everyone, all the structures in this society? I think it's getting more and more like that. That those who sat – most who sat in the supervisory councils, most of them, were not all of them, but the majority who were CEOs, all those who sat in the Bank of Slovenia, and all those who from that moment forward learned about this mess, had done nothing, but had done nothing, connected to each other, otherwise it can't be true that nothing would go wrong and move on. It can't be true! If the Slovenian people who paid this recapitalisation have no right to know what happens to the money they pay, which is their money, then I do not know what country we live in. Then there's no criminal association! Not even in Palermo. If I can't know what's going on with my money! But I have to pay for it, but I have to recapitalize it. And today, bankers, look now, go look around our banking system! Look how great the wages are for bankers! Untouchable bankers! Look at the wages they have in Banka Slovenije. Tell this to the Slovenian people who work for minimum wages. 30% of people are on minimum wages and those who receive 200, 300, 400 euros in pensions. Explain this to them, this coalition that's doing everything in its power not to support this marriage. You've all announced today that you won't support the marriage. Everybody. But there's a million excuses. Look, if you don't want to solve some stuff, then there's no problem, then every excuse comes right. The same government; the government has scissors and linen in its hands. Much more, absolutely much more could be done to get epilogues in these pigs and get those bandits. I'll only tell you one case. 14 days ago, I was visiting an entrepreneur, just by accident, because we were talking there, and I was invited to a meeting. This gentleman takes me to his house, shows me the house, and I see a picture of Napoleon on a horse. And he said to me, "Listen, Marian, how much do you think this painting is worth?" I said, "I'm sorry, I don't know about this because I'm not such an expert in all the fields here either, but according to my laziness, it could just be, now I don't speak as an artist, I speak as a layman, I think, like, 5,000 euros." He says, "No, no, but she's a little more valuable." And I said, "Now, please, you tell me. Because if you bought it, you need to know." "Yes," he said, "about 9,000 euros." He said, "But now I have to tell you something that happened. The exact same picture that I have on the wall is one of the right people among themselves – he gave it as a guarantee – receiving 9 million Euros of credit for it!" Where's our police? Now I'm asking the coalition if this isn't a first-class mafia deal at 150th. And that kind of mob should believe the Slovenian people? Now I'm asking. Here you're telling me some bullshit that when I listen, I'm going to throw up. [[…]] I'm going to throw up when I listen to you! Unfortunately, I have to say this. You don't give a shit about my people. Not all of them. There are some of you who are honest. I won't speak by name, because that's how people will create their own beliefs. But most of them are holding a gang of mob gangs. And that's not good. That's not good! Now I will read once again what is at stake in this law, what we have written down as the goal of our marriage and the main solution. Please let the Slovenian people listen to these two articles to know what we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party and what is at stake here, I ask. I ask the Slovenian people, all those who know things. I call on all organs in this society to listen well to this. And those who have to react so that it does not happen again that someone will get a picture worth 7 000 or 8 000 euros, 9 or 7 million euros of credit. I think it's 9 million credits. And the credit can't be repaid, the picture is taken there, and the people of Slovenia are paying off this shit. And that's justice? Is that fair? For who? For a tight-circuit community! Look, all those people who helped dig a bank hole are spinning around in a circle. Today they are here, tomorrow they are there, the day after this position in state companies and they practically control everything, from SDH, not to talk to DUTB, to the Ljubljana Bank, until I don't know who else; to the Insurance Office Triglav and so on and so on. Look what group of people it is that's going around! What effect do you in there have on that? What's that? Tell me! Speak here in front of the Slovenian public! You'd have it as a coalition because you have the opportunity to put people in these state-owned companies. Put it through some ways, because you're the majority where the country is the 100 percent owner. And what have you done in these three years — the fourth year is running? Nothing! You've done this by putting those people there who are extremely contaminated, and then you've abandoned one Jazbek and so on -- because you've seen that it's no longer acceptable, that it's no longer delicious, that neither can the coalition eat these soups anymore, because it won't get 3 percent at the next election. That's the truth, and that's the fact. See what we have written as the purpose of this law: "The aim of the proposed law is to obtain relevant information that will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt effective banking legislation to prevent the exercise of irregularities and inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system." What's wrong with that sentence? I ask the Slovenian people who are now listening to me, not you who are sitting in the coalition because you have so announced that you will vote against. "The purpose of the proposed law is also to disclose the responsibility of those who have participated in lending without adequate guarantees in cases where the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks". I wonder what's wrong with this article. You have heard, and the aim of the proposed law is also to reveal the responsibility of those who have done what I said earlier, that for 7,000 euros he has given the picture and received 7 or 9 million euros in credit. They're the ones we're talking about and the shit we're talking about. These devils need to be shut down! When are we going to do this, when, say it! Tell me when, for God's sake, come on! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we can apply the law every 14 days – you still refuse, you reject everything, you always reject everything. And look at the main solutions that we propose in marriage. The proposed solution will make bank data, which have so far been confidential, available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and of the working bodies and investigative commissions operating within the National Assembly, insofar as the bank data relates to a bank that has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. What's wrong with that sentence? Tell me! We have some people in here who get to know the banking system very well, but they haven't said in a single word that there's something wrong with it. This will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which also makes important decisions regarding the resolution of banking problems, to obtain relevant information regarding the situation in the banking system, to identify who is responsible for the situation and, in particular, to adopt appropriate legislation that will effectively prevent future irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. And why is this marriage in the National Assembly? Who else in this society can adopt legislation as the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia? If we don't accept the amendment of the legislation, things will go the same way, but if they have a coalition stand all these punks and nothing is done in this area, of course this story will go on. No one will ever convince me that they are not all connected, because if they were not related, things would have happened differently. I am convinced that, of course, it is unacceptable, untasteful and extremely inappropriate. It is true, however, that we have organs in our society that we should disclose; even an individual, if any of any branches of authority are connected to this mess, but not to pursue chicken thieves. This is where billions go. Where is this Mr. Zidar today? Where are these people today? I'm asking you. Who was checking on Mr. Grounder? Who was checking on Mr. Isilovich? When I know he's in on all the stories. I can't prove it. That's what people talk about. They say he's not in the country to sell one company so that Isilovich doesn't have his fingers around and his team worked out and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to start talking about this in the National Assembly. I'm not the one to judge these people. But I warn the authorities in this society that they are going to take a look, visit and tell them a little bit, sir, you can show me where you get a boat or a boat, worth not knowing how many thousands of euros, 700 or 600 – I don't know how much. Where'd you get the money? They come to see me every day, and we have to send these reports, and all those poor people sitting in here. Even if you bought a car for 10,000 euros, you must send a report to the Commission to prevent corruption. These gentlemen, who stole hundreds of millions and billions of dollars, no one sits — everyone outside, one sick, the other there, the third in Switzerland, up there driving every day, you see him, rehabilitating there, I don't know what he's doing. Our Judicial Branch of Authority [[…]] Then someone tell me that not all of these are connected, that everything is bribed. It's all bribed. This is not normal, what kind of society we live in! It's not normal where this corruption in our society went. Where did this corruption go? We have a parallel branch of power, definitely. The parallel police. Take a look at the case of health corruption. For example, the link between who sold some stories there, brothers, sisters, uncles who connected each other; some at the top of the prosecution, and some at the back. Huge money serves at the expense of Slovenian health care and Slovenian patient and so on. Look, I think that's enough. My dear coalition, you look a little bit through, and let's step together, because it's our nation, it's not me. I don't have any problems. I've been doing fair work in my life, and I don't have a problem with that. But I'm willing to do everything we can to get together, no matter who's in any political group, to solve this problem once again, and those bastards who emptied the system to at least bring some of the money back. At least 14 hours in prison, they have to work every day to serve the barbarians they've done, not go around there, but say a hundred medical certificates, and say that I don't know how sick they are, then you see where they're driving around and what they're doing, and you see them on the ship -- living like the gods. And these key politicians in the previous system meet each other, and they drink nice coffees and champagnes and more. Shame, what a society we live in! Shame. And the coalition that should have done something about it did nothing, so I'm so disappointed and sad. I was talking about the main solutions, then we have the last paragraph: "It is also suggested that, in the event of the bank’s termination, whether it is a regular or forced termination, the obligation to protect confidential data shall no longer apply if, within a period of ten years prior to the termination, it has received State aid or has been subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks." And that is, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, what we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party to be adopted today. This is where the coalition tells us, and the government doesn't support it. And the government writes in the decision – I will not read all that it is because today the State Secretary has already said – writes, "... for these reasons, the Government does not undermine the draft law on the amendment of the Banking Act, EPA 1858-VII, which has been tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, and proposes to the National Assembly that it should take a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration." Dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! Remember this sentence, which was written by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end. Now you see what kind of government we have and what coalition we have, and I ask the Slovenian people not to repeat these mistakes in the next elections, because this has gone too far now; the matter has gone to this point that the people will remain bare, blind, naked and deaf and still hungry. And we can't afford that. This needs to be cut and this needs to be changed. One more to conclude. In front of the Slovenian people, in front of the nation that pays for these bastards, no one in this society has the right to prevent them from knowing where, when, and why their money was spent. No one, no branch of power! There's no such thing as confidentiality! Such confidentiality is unfair, unacceptable and extremely rude and irresponsible; and this must be prevented. With this law, we want to make things change in this area, to help all those bodies in this society, to get these bandits who did this to jail as soon as possible. Please, coalition, please don't listen and don't sit in the position of the Government that is misleading you. Support this bill because in the second bath, in the third reading or in the second reading, we can complete it, as it pleases us, to help everyone and to step together to get to the bottom of this mess. I think it's only fair and fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I just wanted to make it procedurally clear that the position of the Group of Social Democrats would be put forward on my behalf. I regret to note the tenth hour of the opening of the session, so I am late and procedurally, Vice-President, I will present a part of this position in my debate, to which I am also declared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thanks for the information. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, prepare the mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! I must admit that after such, let us say, a particularly fiery debate is difficult to involve in some way, because on the one hand I received as a Member an invitation to support and on the other hand I will not speak with negative connotation. However, I will allow myself, for the introduction, to comment a little on this objective, to the honourable Member who spoke before me. I have no problem here, I have to admit, but since he's in the middle of this debate, I also need to involve myself in not following as a coalition or as individual Members in some way. Here I would only comment that the applicant most likely wrote a little awkwardly in the first sentence, in terms of objectives and principles, the second part of the sentence, because of irregularities, inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system, this cannot be because in Slovenia there are 14 business banks, of which the majority of banks are in foreign ownership or private ownership, and I must admit that if we monitor that the owners are truly responsible owners – with the exception of state-owned banks – and I assume that this was mainly the purpose of the register of state-owned banks. If I go to the content, then. Despite the fact that I am in the past, according to this mandate, I have repeatedly rejected such proposals with an argument that I must not interfere with banking secrecy, but today, I can say, for a different reason. I support the amendment to the Banking Act 2 in that Article, in order to remove banking secrecy only for the purpose of the parliamentary banking commission. I would not now discuss or ask why it is spreading to the home committee or the entire National Assembly, because I am a great advocate that the banking system is based on confidentiality and security, and if Members have unanimously taken a decision and given jurisdiction to the banking investigative commission, it is entirely logical for me, even in this part where it is written, explicitly in the articles themselves, for which period and for which banks I am determined to untie this secrecy. Why a different attitude? Everything shows that in the Republic of Slovenia, if we wait, only the political responsibility of the people who have made it possible – and I will also use the term – to plunder tax money through state-owned banks. Apparently, there is no real interest in the types of prosecution and the judiciary, because in the area of economic and banking crime, the prosecution and the judicial branch of the authorities are constantly citing and sending messages to the public that they are only being educated and trained. On their part, I mark this message as practically a mockery of taxpayers and also of the legislative body, Members of Parliament. I must admit that I thank the applicants for re- tabled this bill in question, and I am also of the view that persistence is necessary in this case. As I have pointed out many times in the National Assembly and in the parent committees, I have made it very clear that it is necessary to sanction those persons who have allowed this 5-billion-dollar bank hole to occur. Again, in the first place, I am sure – and I am glad that there is an increasing debate in this work – among the members of the boards and supervisory boards of the state-owned banks. I think there's more than one comment on that. This is certainly followed by the State regulator, says Banka Slovenije, and we were also convinced in the process of hearing the Bank's Investigative Commission, where the Governor made it clear that the national regulator did not comply with the legislation and powers it had, and somehow the recommendations of the European Central Bank carried out controls to the extent necessary. I have added to this and I am still adding, but it is not often heard, internal audits of state-owned banks. Each bank, including savings banks, has an internal audit and the heads of internal auditors are obliged to analyse any processes and procedures, especially if they are negative, and to report this to the administration. If not accepted by the Management Board, they shall be required to report to the Supervisory Board in accordance with legislation. None of that! And that piece of ultimately, certainly part of the responsibility for this 5 billion-dollar bank hole is also on the side of commercial auditors, because we must not forget, all the annual reports of business banks, in accordance with the law, must be audited in accordance with accounting standards and carried out by external auditors. It is interesting that these same auditors who participated in the last bank hole appear in recent audit procedures also in so-called business banks. As far as the Bank of Slovenia is concerned, I must admit, and its leadership, which in recent times has consistently referred to the independence and independence of the institution – and calls even the European Central Bank – is practically in order to prevent views as to whether, in the past, these processes have been potentially misleading or harmful to the Republic of Slovenia. The requirements of complete inviolability, including for the previous decisions of the Bank of Slovenia, I find them unacceptable and, literally, Banka Slovenije behaves as a country within the country. Unusual! This is not for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but perhaps it is for the benefit of individuals and perhaps the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and also our colleague, who was the Prime Minister, who, if we remember, was then in that three self-proclaimed saviors of the Republic of Slovenia. Here I wonder why the government of Alenka Bratušek has already supported private banks: Factor Banka, Probanko and Abanko. Where's the responsibility? Quiet. I firmly believe that it is high time for all members of the National Assembly to be conscious and stop protecting the perpetrators of this so-called bank hole. This is not only about the bank holes in 2013, 2014, even in the past this has already happened. And if we're found, all the clues show that these persons, directly or indirectly, partly via SDH and DUTB, can say with such an unusual word, break with the Republic of Slovenia's harmful legal transactions through the redemption of claims, amazingly, with 70 and more percentage discounts. Here I would also like to add that activities are also taking place through intermediaries and intermediaries, in order to also generate influences in company management bodies in part or in full ownership of the country. Given that the representative of the executive branch presented the Government's position, I am asking her exactly what the Government has done with regard to the coalition agreement on the investigation of the bank hole and the definition of liability; I will not read because the damage to time and matters is already known. However, I will not accept the argument that something has happened in the field of substantive and procedural law. Yeah, yeah, that's the intensity you're working on. The coalition contract is very clearly written down and defined as to what needs to be done to detect the responsibility of the 5-billion-dollar bank hole. On this occasion, I would also like to touch the words of the former Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, which is also an answer to the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State. What the esteemed vice-governor wrote in the Saturday annex of the diary Evening, Maribor, Saturday, March 5, 2016, with a large title A few bankers should wear a striped collection. Therefore, I suggest to the distinguished representatives of the Government that those who have prepared this position of the Government look at the contents of this comment or the interviews of the former Vice-Governor. But after all, I'm going to let myself read what's written in the subtitle. She wrote: "The banks, with the help of the auditors, have deceived the public for many years on rotten loans and the Bank of Slovenia has looked through their fingers. Now that the masks have finally fallen, the system's clearance prevents the courts." I really suggest, but not only that, there are probably plenty of other contributions, pads, but I believe you have much more information than we Members, what has happened here in the past. I will still touch on the Bank of Slovenia. As it has been said, this institution has been doing everything in recent times not to reveal to the public any unusual decision relating to the specific recapitalisation of banks and the liquidation of Probank and Factor Bank. Unfortunately, we are already faced with cases that have already been filed with regard to deleted securities. How can I, as a Member, then trust in the institution of the Bank of Slovenia, in the expertise, objectivity and operation of Slovenia, if we simply cannot obtain certain information as representatives of the legislative body? They're only available from the media. It's sad. Recently, however, we have designated the Banka Slovenije operator by law, called Banka Slovenije, the Banka Slovenije, the Fund for Bank Resolution and the Guarantee Fund. In doing so, everything goes through us and the public, but I believe it is not possible for you to charge negative interest on the overnight deposits of business banks of Banka Slovenije. The fact is that obviously all decisions of Banka Slovenije are in the hands of individuals. It is sad that all important decisions for the Republic of Slovenia obviously have a sign of strict secrecy. And what I must admit is that at least some Members of the National Assembly are grieving is the fact that no later verification of individual decisions is permissible. I would like to point out that it is not a matter of checking some of the decisions currently in force, but if, after a few years, it is not possible to verify, then I am not surprised if we do not follow the position of the Government. What are the law enforcement authorities doing? Something has already been said by a respected colleague of Mark Ferrug. I'm talking about a bank investigation or a 5-billion-dollar hole. In the forecasting process, a lot is to be done, according to some informal information. So it's from the police and the crime scene. On the prosecution's side – I hope I won't be too offended – but I'm in the position that there's a big fog on the prosecution's side. If I further define it with the word inefficiencies. With regard to the charges and the indictments, how powerful is it, if we can talk about it in terms of a 5 billion-dollar bank hole? I think it's a little bit of reality. However, if we take the example of someone at the social bottom, if I may say so, taking or subtracting a value of EUR 50, 100, but the complete forecasting and criminal proceedings are concluded within a few months. What do we have for a bank hole in four years? Maybe even more specifically: 8 or 9, because the recapitalisation was years ago, and the prosecution — what does it do? A few suggestions that somehow happened to reach the judicial branch of power. I hope, by appointing a new Attorney General, that we have a person who will radically change what I have previously said, the milkiness of the prosecution at the bank hole, of course, which is then reflected in the judicial branch of power. Both of them continue to communicate to the Slovenian public: we are educated, we are establishing specialised courts, we are analysing the Irish case, we are participating in international professional conferences and what else I know. Here from this city I inform the well-respected prosecution, as well as the judicial branches of the authorities, that such training and practice, as regards banking crime, can be obtained in good time if you have interest, because from Ljubljana to Celovac is a normal time of transport of a good hour. If this is not enough, even from Vienna – from Ljubljana to Vienna is good four hours. I believe that the law enforcement, prosecution and judiciary in the neighbouring country will gladly hand over the case of Hyp to our institutions. And finally, start creating economics, from banking crime, from your own judicata. Finally, I must admit that in some way my position deviates from the position of the Group of Members as well as the Government. However, I hope that, if such a decision is to be taken, the applicant will withdraw the principle of secrecy from the home working bodies as the National Assembly and that we will allow the banking investigative committee the opportunity to complete its work and to come to the political responsibility of those who have made it possible for them to continue to be deprived of any recruitment of state-owned companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u27	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Daniel Krivec should be prepared. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! Yeah. It is stated among the objectives of the law that the National Assembly should be given the opportunity to adopt more effective legislation in the area of the banking system. At this point, I would like to recall the fact that the drafter, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, has strongly insisted on the bad bank law, and a very bad bank is one of those laws that actually allows for extraordinary fraud in transferring bad claims to a bad bank. This is a fact, and it would therefore be very important that the Slovenian Democratic Party, as a great advocate of this bad bank law, nevertheless initiates a procedure to put an end to the bad bank as soon as possible and thereby to those transactions which, of course, allow for the actual robbery of the century – as I have called it when this law was actually adopted – because practice proves that there are large deviations from the value of bad claims and from the insurance of these bad claims. Therefore, in business banks they have actually come up with an effective measure if I can say that they transfer bad claims at low value to a bad bank, of course the debt remains for us, citizens, and this bad claim is later sold at significantly higher value. These are all evidentiary amounts today, evidentiary procedures. Finally, the Committee on Finance also adopted a decision on my initiative to revise all procedures for transferred claims and then sell those claims through a bad bank. When we actually get the results of this audit from the Government, but of course I expect it to carry out this audit, because it was the decision of the home labour body, we will certainly get more of this data. However, it must be said that a whole range of good data came from the Court of Auditors when it revised the New Ljubljana Bank. Of course, this audit is a problem because most key data are not available to the public, but as members of the National Assembly we have also received a report from the Court of Auditors on the revision of the New Ljubljana Bank, where there is no secrecy. So I hope to say that Members already have a lot of information on who participated in the granting of bad credits like this, who took part in the fact that these loans were later transferred to a bad bank, although, for example, the committee regularly repaid them. So, the fact is that the bad bank obviously allows for such fraud, that someone who pays off the loan was transferred this claim to a bad bank, and at that point, to that private person, for example, you forgive 70% of the loan. How happy citizens and citizens would be if, for example, the loan you hire to buy an apartment were to receive such benefits that 70% of the credit is written off by the bank and placed on a bad bank. Unfortunately, citizens and citizens do not have these benefits, and it is therefore right to initiate all procedures primarily in those laws that allow such fraud; and a bad bank is one of those which is specifically designed to make these bad claims of course the subject of abuse for such cases as I have stated. In this proposal, which we are considering today, it would be very important to include the Court of Auditors in it. So the Court of Auditors has very serious problems today as to how to get to the revision of the Bank of Slovenia. Banka Slovenije cannot enter into and perform audits of all business decisions, if I may say so, Banka Slovenije, either by delaying the supervision of a bank, or by failing this control, or by assessing the financial hole and all the principles that have been taken into account or chosen, in order to move around about EUR 5 billion. This is the first thing we really need to achieve for the Court of Auditors to have an insight into the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia, and then, as Members, we will be able to really adopt laws that will eliminate these anomalies, while at the same time conveying to all the authorities the clear direction they need to do and, of course, even later, let us hope that there will be epilogues in the courts in the direction that all those who are truly responsible for this huge bank hole will also be responsible for their actions. Especially so that we do not face cases where procedures are carried on for so long that they become obsolete. Therefore, not only will it be necessary, as stated in the objectives of this law, to consider adopting more effective banking legislation, but it will also have to be considered that it is enshrined in the Constitution that such matters do not become obsolete and that, of course, these procedures and such frauds will be significantly less. So it will be necessary to agree, if I may say so, on the part of all parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, to reach at least a two-thirds majority of the votes, to amend the Constitution in such a way that such frauds related to banking, including banking secrecy and the weakening of the state budget, are not obsolete. At that moment, of course, the picture will be really much clearer and significantly less difficult to deal with, whether we will require any data from banks or not, because when it is not an age, of course, the view of all these frauds is completely different. So, a key drawback, if I may say so, is that this proposal by the Slovenian Democratic Party does not at this time talk about whether and to what extent the Court of Auditors should also carry out the audit in the Bank of Slovenia. This is one of the tasks that we will, as it all appears, have before us also within the framework of the government proposal for a change, which is linked to the law on the Bank of Slovenia, and I believe that, of course, there will be a very difficult debate at that time, whether we will really be able to reach the agreement of Members and Members in a large enough majority to give this jurisdiction to the Court of Auditors. And last but not least, when there are no arguments in the home field, then the European Central Bank takes place within the framework of its competences or responsibilities of the Court of Auditors, the jurisdiction of the National Assembly and so on. That is how I think that we will also have to sit very seriously and also agree within the Act on the Functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly on the themes of the European Union, to, of course, also open this dimension of the problem, how we can also look at the functioning of the European Central Bank in that part concerning the Slovenian banking system. This is also the law that has to be adopted by a two-thirds majority and, of course, today's debate, today's proposal that the Slovenian Democratic Party has just referred to the procedure, allows us to say something more about it, or it will have to be substantially more adopted than it has been written in this law right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u29	Mr. Pogačnik, representative of the proposer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I have to respond to the debate held by my colleague Weber regarding the bad bank and that the problem of Slovenian banking in general is the fault of the bad bank and given that the proponent of setting up the bad bank was the Slovenian Democratic Party and now the Slovenian Democratic Party is the most responsible for this. Dear colleague Weber, a bad bank was established during the government of Janez Janša in 2012. It was established to transfer bad claims to resolution outside the banks' institutions, as we have found that until then the banks themselves have been extremely poorly managed and the result is a 5 billion-dollar recapitalisation of the largest Slovenian banks in ownership, direct or direct. This means that, in the past, these errors that were necessary for the recapitalisation were not a bad bank. However, I agree with you in working with you when you said about the poor management of the bad bank, but here I think we have a unified position, but we must look at the picture now, and who is responsible for putting the staff into a bad bank. And this is where Janša's government is no longer at play. Here, however, the government of Alenka Bratušek was in charge, and in the coalition you were also Social Democrats, and you set up such an administrative committee of the bank, non-executive, executive directors and, last but not least, respected colleague Weber, under the law on bad bank transfer claims confirmed by the government; the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. An interdepartmental commission consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, Bank of Slovenia was established prematurely. The current State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance was a member of the Interdepartmental Commission, and that is, all during the time of the governments in which you, the Social Democrats, participated. And I agree that this transfer of claims was imprecise and, above all, the question still arises on the transmission methodology and whether the prices of these transfers were appropriate, but the transfer of claims to a bad bank was confirmed by the Alenka Bratušek Government, of which you were also members of the Social Democrats. And it seems to me, colleague Weber, that it is unfair to involve the Slovenian Democratic Party in this matter. We have drawn up the law, but I am sure that this institution, in my personal opinion, a bad bank, has been abused since the first day forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u31	It's a replica. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you. In one part, I was misunderstood. So I didn't talk about the general problem that the general problem is a bad bank, but the problem in the part where bad claims to a bad bank were passed on, and here came a very big additional problem, in addition to those that were created before. However, the assessment is that, in fact, because of poor claims, a bank hole is possible for a billion and a half, and because of the misassessment and transfer of bad claims to a bad bank, the hole is even 5 billion. So the fact is that the bad bank was a project that SDS started and not least, Mr Pogačnik, also Mr Škruj was in fact the one that assessed these bad claims, was the one that was in a bad bank today, including Mr Šircelj was in a bad bank, and in fact it is a responsibility – regardless of political affiliation – to find and solve this matter in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u33	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, representative of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr President! Once again, the law on the bad bank clearly speaks, the transfer of claims is finally confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and you were also made up of Social Democrats. At that time, they could object to the transfer of these claims that prices are not appropriate or for any reason. However, the fact is that the green light of the transfer of claims to a bad bank and the names on which the claims will be transferred and the value of the claims, the green light was given by the government, in which you also participated by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u35	We have another replica. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u36	Mr Vice-President, I must say it again and point it out. What the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed for this law to be passed, I am sure that this was the best solution at that time. But the key problem was that they put the footage there. Mr. Member, who was the non-executive director, you replaced him, you drove him away, so that left-wings could totally control from the point to the point everything that was going on there, and all the crap that happened was the result of the people who were working there, which you as a government, so you as members of that government with Alenka Bratušek and all those who were in that government, proposed to these places. And these are the same people who are constantly spinning around in a circle and they are constantly privileged and they're there where they need to be helped to do some things in favor of this left-wing falange. This is what I am destroying Slovenian society and Slovenian people and Slovenian people. It undermines the independence of Slovenia. And one day it must be called the end, the end of this left-wing falange, and then things will go in the right direction, or nothing will change.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u37	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I'm going back to the proposal of today's law. The fact is, the Social Democrats have been trying to turn things around again, and it's a responsibility to get someone else. But the sum of how many governments you've been sitting in is talking to yourself, so I think that every debate and bad bank and who's responsible, who's more responsible, is completely out of line. Look, once again, let's go from the top. First of all, I'm really calling on the government to say something. Weather announcements, 30 minutes – blink. Let's see. The debate shall be held from 10 a.m. on behalf of the Government. We are talking about such an important matter, one of the most important matters in this country, banking crime, and the government – blink. What if we had ministers here? That doesn't seem important to them. Therefore, once again, we are talking about the Slovenian banking system, which taxpayers have had to rehabilitate several times. Well, anyway, we're all costing us a circus of 5 billion euros, and no one knows exactly whether this number is big enough because things aren't under the roof. What's the problem? That those who caused this bank hole, banking crime, crime of the century, 5 billion -- you imagine that today we're going to share it with every citizen, that's about 2,000 euros. Now, let's give this money to the naturals, and they'll tell you what they'd do with it and how they'd do it. But the problem is that these bankers aren't yet in court, but there's more. I'm sure there's more of them. One is that a marriage is not appropriate or interpreted in its own way. It is true that the law in force so far refers to banking secrecy, which is the basis of the business between banks and their committees. But, Your Honor, the state is not a committee! The state is not a committee, the state is largely with the whole system and the National Assembly and thus the regulator to see whether the system works, whether it doesn't work or whether things in banks, even when we're talking about 100 percent of the country's property, are working or not working. It's not working today. Why isn't it working? Because we have on the one hand the Bank of Slovenia, which has never accepted any responsibility or pointed to the responsibility of anyone else. However, we all know that there is something very wrong in there; that it is a matter of different friendships, clientism, lending to beautiful eyes. Look, millions and billions of dollars went for this! For someone who is a beneficiary or a representative of the elite – this left political option is better known, Forum 21 and so on – to receive credit. At the same time, they received various prizes in the form of gazelles for success, and then all the sugars went. But this is paid by taxpayers, and, of course, these people today, finely free on Prešeren, walk on Slovenian streets, money is invested in some oasis, our people, a simple man, but a mother, respected, but a mother from day to day. The stories we get are catastrophic! For 152 euros they take houses, deposit single mothers! Here we are talking about 5 billion — and nothing! And after the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, proposes to amend the law, which would allow at least partially and more easily to control this system in the sense that those responsible – we are talking about supervisors – are talking about those who are proposed in this system, so that it works to move and that this responsibility is seen that people in the country realize that the laws apply to all the same things, not only to them when they commit a road accident, but with a small amount of overspeed, but with such a share of wages that they cannot survive and do not know what to give to their children. How could anyone oppose such a bill? A 5-billion-dollar hole! Except those who support it, who are powered from this system, or who have helped it happen. I don't see any other explanation for this, because this law actually only has positive effects, but once again, those who have been paid well have been strongly and overly rewarded for their work, but there is a 5-billion-dollar hole or 2,000 euros per citizen. Let's stop this second class of other citizens and the first class of these elites! Are you able to do something good for this country for once in the National Assembly? It's simple, it's not a bank secret, it's a bluff, which is in marriage. Bank secrecy is true what a bank employee says with a certain individual commissioner. When we talk about the system in general, it needs to be opened. We listen to the same and similar flossules in justice. We're adopting the Law of the Council of Justice, and we're closing it. Again, no one will know anything and no one will be to blame, or everyone – a collective responsibility. It's like here, but in the end, it's the citizens' fault, because the citizens are paying. So if you don't support this marriage, it's the same as saying that you're guilty of a bank hole because you're paying for it. For the punishment fell on each of us and every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. Is that what you want? At least once with your own head and your own conscience, press the button! Of course, that's one problem, a change of law. Another problem is – you know very well that because of this law it was unable to function or that the investigation commission for the detection of banking crime, led by a colleague of Dr. Ange Logar, is working very hard. But it's not just that he's having problems where I'm going to stop, because of justice or criminal justice. For the same similar data two different decisions of judges. The Commission did not know how long it had spent to get some data that was necessary for work and probably not all of them. And it is true that today he is symbolically starting his term in the Constitutional Court of Dr. Prince. He said the court was the backbone of the entire system. And it's true, we're spineless. You're here because you don't hope to push the button to find the bankers, and the justice because it's held in the hands of the clutches of the former system. If the coalition can't and the justice system can't, then you know where we're going if we're without a spine. I don't need to be told. Or should I say, up your ass or up your ass? And that's where you're pushing her. I sincerely hope that at least one of you will consider this simple proposal; in fact it is very simple, but the effects are incredible. Whoever today does not support this law then agrees to steal from our banks, that individuals who are allowed in this country are everything, because justice will not react anyway. And it's true, the justice system -- the cancer of our system, no one's been behind bars yet. We have lawyers who are still serving well on this account, almost a million euros of the wife of the Minister of Justice. Come on, because if you put all this together and pull it together, then you see that we are not a banana republic, I don't think there's any such country at all! It's all intertwined, it's all connected, and the elite's moving on with their full wallets. They teach their children abroad, while our children leave them in this system and share them in first-class and second-class classes, because some have to pay for it because they go to a particular school, even though the Constitutional Court said they should not. Just in case, no banker is yet sitting, and I also doubt he'll be sitting down, given that you don't want to adopt this law. But just for comparison, look at this book, mainly for the sake of citizens and citizens, I show it. There are about 700 cases of various allegations, various apparent crimes committed by John Janša. They've been looking for him 700 times, or they've been looking for a witch 700 times. For our system, it is essential to threaten the leader of the opposition, to shut up. You just have a problem because you know we're not gonna shut up, we're even stronger with every new attack. You do, your system, your justice minister, and the system that runs it, deal with such things. But you are not dealing with those who actually caused the robbery of the century — 5 billion! I don't care if it's Tonček or Franček, or if it's supported by one or the other political option. Anyone who's responsible for this should be behind bars by now. Not just that there's no system. And it's true. We have a marriage. You don't want to do it today because you're protecting him. You'd rather be hunting a witch again in a new way and again with some new shots from Murgelj. To conclude with the sentence by Milan Kučan, your idol, said 22. 3. 1994: "All means have been allowed to defeat the enemy; not only those known to democracy, but all that democracy has nothing to do with. This is first disqualification and then liquidation. If necessary, physical." How happy we would be that Milan Kučan would devote these sentences to those who caused the bank hole! But not physically, but to come to a fair trial, in a fair way, but unfortunately these sentences are intended for the opposition and all those who in this country are not according to him and his thinking because we are fighting for the truth because we are fighting against the elites because we are fighting against the secondary class of our citizens because we want our citizens to live a decent life in the first place and that they are not privileged by different migrants compared to our citizens and because we want banking crime to be exposed, and that people who have spent taxpayer money come to the rescue. But I really expect the government to respond a little, because that's sad. But it's all just one sad thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u39	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Get Mr. Jože Tanko ready. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! First of all, let me say that I will support this marriage change. I think there has been a lot of talk about similar proposals and in the past. Even by coalition members, discussions in this direction have been made that more needs to be done in this investigation of the bank hole. You yourself have written in a coalition contract very precisely that it is necessary to investigate the bank's hole, identify those responsible and prepare legislation to avoid possible re-inclusion of banks in the direction of illegal and unfunded loans. You wrote the same thing about the Heat Power Plant in order to set up an independent commission, and there was no such commission. This law is very simple and is probably understood by everyone, including ordinary citizens. The point is that in the case of banks that were in any way saved by tax money, they were in a system that allowed them to survive or were in the process of being abolished, but also with this Banks Stability Programme, which was also confirmed by the National Assembly. Thus, for all these banks which have any connection with State aid, all information which is classified must be taken away from this secrecy and the possibility that the National Assembly or the working bodies of the National Assembly, and in particular the Commission of Inquiry, may be made aware of this information and thus determine why these anomalies have occurred. Some proposals go in this direction so that this possibility can only be seen in these documents by the Commission of Inquiry. In principle, I do not have any problems, and I believe that, in the following reading, it can be said in the second reading, we will correct this amendment very quickly, and if it is a serious desire on the part of those who have discussed in this direction, that this bank hole really will be explored in the right way and quickly enough, so that it will be effective, I suggest that this first reading be supported and that, at the next stage, the amendment will also correct this part and allow for an examination by the investigating committee of the National Assembly, which is still a great advance from what we have at this point. Those who are on the committee of inquiry are likely to feel this at any hearing because access to certain documents is very difficult to obtain a court decision quite often, which in certain cases greatly impedes the investigation and, above all, removes it. In the event of the early conclusion of this mandate, this Commission will also be without a serious conclusion and thus without the task that you all want to see in view of your deliberations. In particular, in the coalition, at least in the initial phase, there was a lot of talk about the need to do this as soon as possible, so that similar things would not happen any further. We are now in the third year, and none of the words have been translated into action. Thus, this is a second attempt in a very short time to allow the Commission of Inquiry to access this data, and I believe that some understanding will also be in the coalition, which has also been demonstrated through discussions. Now, which discussions have also gone in this direction, that first we need to talk and find out who is more guilty, who is less guilty, what measures have caused this. The purpose of this Act is not to deal with it, the purpose of this Act and the opening of these documents and data is that the Commission of Inquiry can complete its work and find fault, irrespective of which lair originates or who has been the godfather of individual acts. I hope that in this second attempt there will still be more understanding among Members, that this law is adopted in this first reading and that it can be complemented in the next stage by the concerns that have been, because I believe that it is for all of us, as well as for all citizens, in the interest of examining this bank hole in a qualitative manner, and that this will also prevent any further exhaustion in order to prepare a qualitative change in legislation in the event that this is necessary. So I believe that even in the coalition, it has somehow been overtaken by this thinking that this law, with these minor corrections, needs to be supplemented and given the opportunity to realize what you have in the coalition contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u41	The word has Mrs. Urska Ban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. First of all, let me say that the topic of bank holes and all related issues over the last few years have often arisen both in some professional debates, in public debates and in political debates. In practice, not one session of the Parliament will pass in this mandate in order not to touch a bank hole in one way or another. For the introduction, I would like to say that this bill, as I supported it in the previous reading, is that I agree with the proposaler's intention to deal with this law. Why do we keep talking about a bank hole? As I said, a broad public interest in this debate, professional interest, political interest, although it deals with a number of specialised bodies that are formed within the national institutions, whether it be the Bank of Slovenia, the police, the prosecution or the judiciary, and in the end, not the public here in Parliament, we have not received some key and important answers on this subject. The first question among them is certainly the search for those responsible for the creation of the bank hole. I know, of course, the blame goes also to certain external circumstances, such as macroeconomic circumstances, and most of this responsibility is certainly in my opinion both in banks and in the country. At this point, I would like to point out in particular corporate governance, the functioning of bank management bodies, which includes both supervision and the responsibility of the regulator for effective control of this system by the Bank of Slovenia. When it comes to the fault of banks themselves, of course, it is also necessary to distinguish between the bad business decisions of some or banks that have been taken, if I say so, in good faith, and between banking crime. The reasons for the bank hole do not go solely to banking crime, but also to other reasons that do not have a criminal basis. As the biggest losses occurred in the three largest Slovenian banks, all of which were state-owned, there is no way to forget the issue of political responsibility, as it was the policy that called the supervisory banks and then the administrations of individual banks. And since the recapitalisation of banks required the involvement of public funds, the cost of poor banking decisions has shifted to the burden of taxpayers, of course the public interest is very important here and is the search for culprits, the responsibility for this great public interest, as the consequences of this banking recapitalisation have not only had consequences in the banking system, but, consequently, the wider, the whole economy, the labour market, the fiscal policy of the country and others. So here, as has been said several times today, I see a huge public interest here; a public interest of €5 billion. The question of the success of detection and prosecution of banking crime is likely to depend on many factors, many factors. In the first place, appropriate legislation, both substantive and procedural, is certainly the basis for the success of the procedures. Once all the evidence is gathered, then the courts play their part. In view of the current performance balance for the prosecution of banking crime in Slovenia, where eight years or nine years after the start of the financial crisis, not one banker has been convicted legally of being involved in the role or members of the board or a member of the supervisory board at the time of the crisis, I think it is more than obvious that we have a major problem in this part. There are no representatives of the Ministry of Justice here today. Now I can only ask the representative of the Ministry of Finance whether we have done something more effective with the financial legislation adopted. We know that we have adopted an end or a new Banking Act in March 2015 – what has this law changed, what have its results? Of course, when we detect banking crime, we quickly run into this concept, which has been repeatedly described even today, banking secrecy. I understand that this is a fundamental banking institution, which provides some confidence in the banking system as such, but I wonder; on the one hand, we have banking secrecy and on the other hand the involvement of public funds, 5 billion public tax money, which in some way has cured the wrong decisions of bankers. These costs have been transferred to the public sector, indirectly to taxpayers. That makes the problem so much bigger. So, on the one hand, we have Members who, by votes here, have confirmed and have already allowed some grounds in the previous term that we have carried out this recapitalisation, we still, through budgetary documents, confirm large interest on the repayment of the credits paid for this bank recovery, on the other hand, we have taxpayers who have paid this bill, we have law enforcement bodies that do not have results to date, and we have bank secrecy. Then who are they entrusted to? Who can just look at this data? Europe, European Central [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. First of all, he gets the word "magic." Miranda Groff Ferjančič, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. The Government does not oppose the objectives set by the applicant in the law under consideration today. For such objectives, which lead to greater transparency, the government has also advocated and advocated a number of proposals for this purpose, and this is also based on a programme for the prevention of corruption and the enhancement of integrity and transparency. In the first half of 2015 a new Banking Act was adopted, which regulated access to data protected as bank secrecy. Article 125 provides that the bank must provide data protected as a bank secrecy where such data is required in writing by the Commission to prevent corruption or is required in writing by the court, the State Defence Office, the State Prosecutor or the police for the purpose of carrying out a pre-trial or criminal procedure, unless the law expressly provides for the order of the investigating judge for the provision of confidential information. The law also contains a provision on the system of notification of breaches in the bank. This law contributes to increasing the transparency of banking operations and to more effective prevention and detection of potential corrupt practices from banking. The amendment of the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks, which entered into force in 2016 for persons who have established an obligation with DUTB in a legal relationship. These persons must report to the detection authorities any offence they have been informed of or otherwise have been committed, and this has been done in connection with the bank which has received the measures. It thus complemented and upgraded Article 145 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which provides that public authorities and organisations with public powers are obliged to declare offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility, if they have been informed or otherwise known of them. In total, DUTB announced 46 irregularities by the end of April 2016 and also launched internal investigations in these cases. The Bank of Slovenia has set up a special inspection group for the purpose of more active cooperation with the judiciary and law enforcement authorities and for the purposes of faster response, analysis and interpretation of bank data and supervisory analyses. The purpose of this inspection team is to achieve rapid response, access to data and rapid coordination of the Bank of Slovenia's work, investigative bodies and prosecutors in the handling of certain cases. Currently, this group deals with the analysis of individual cases of pre-trial or criminal proceedings, by identifying facts, circumstances and emerging forms of suspected crime and bank abuse. The current activities of this inspection team are aimed primarily at assisting the police under the cooperation agreement between the police and the Bank of Slovenia, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and, where appropriate, the banks in the composition of quality criminal complaints against those responsible in connection with poor credit. Many cases of bad banking practice are not necessarily criminal, but they are based on restructuring cases where there are write-offs and debt conversions that are often very complex. It is justified to expect bank administrations to file appropriate complaints and to speed up the investigation of bank abuses and to seize and thereby secure evidence from subsidiaries and branches. Bank administrations are obliged to demonstrate the will of the injured party, and once again we rightly expect the courts and the prosecutions to judge infringements of the substantive rules under the Company Act and the Bond Code and to adequately fill in legal gaps, to judge substantively and not merely procedurally. However, banking transactions are subject to four times the general limitation of criminal and civil law cases under the Act on measures to strengthen the stability of banks. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to amend legislation in a particular field and other decisions of the National Assembly under their constitutional competence. Even if the Commission of Inquiry has the same powers as the judicial authorities after the Court of Justice in matters of investigation and examination, the parliamentary investigation is not intended to detect the offences and their perpetrators, nor is the criminal procedure. These are, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out in its decision, the investigative powers and powers of the National Assembly and their working bodies, as well as of the Commission of Inquiry, limited to the constitutionally defined position and powers of the National Assembly. The legality of individual investigations by the National Assembly or its investigative commission, all judgments under the powers provided for in the Constitution, in accordance with the powers of the commission of inquiry, as provided for in the laws, and with regard to the mandate of the commission of inquiry. Thus, in relation to investigative powers, including the acquisition of confidential and other information from different stakeholders, this acquisition is limited on the one hand by the principle of the division of power and the constitutional powers of other institutions, as well as by the constitutional rights of individuals and other entities. In its judgment in 2016, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia decided that the Court is obliged to take care of the constitutional protection of the rights of members of the parliamentary investigation, but in this case the interest of the protection of classified information is striking the public interest to investigate irregularities and abuses in the Slovenian banking system, given that the banks have been saved by tax money. This court has also found that the measure is proportionate and inescapable while ensuring the confidentiality of the data requested and the fact that without looking into all relevant documentation it is difficult or virtually impossible to carry out the full investigation in accordance with the subject-matter and purpose of the parliamentary investigation and within a certain scope of the parliamentary investigation. Therefore, the Court has already repeatedly complied with the requirements of the parliamentary investigation for the transmission of the requested data. Maybe it's just a final thought. It may be a problem to actually obtain data from a parliamentary commission, but it is not a problem or a matter of banking law. This allows confidential information to be disclosed in certain cases. However, of course, the assumptions must be met and procedural safeguards must be respected. These include the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. So, in the end, I would like to stress that we have legislation that allows the parliamentary investigation to obtain data, including those identified as bank secrecy, and that only needs to be brought to life and brought together by judicial practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u45	Mag. Marko Pogačnik, you have the floor for concluding thoughts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u46	Mr President, thank you for your floor. On conclusion, I would like to reiterate the intention that the Slovenian Democratic Party has once again tabled a proposal to amend the Banking Act in particular on matters relating to documents of a confidential nature. We are confident that, in view of the resolution of the banking system carried out by taxpayers – I will repeat, taxpayers – for more than €5 billion, the National Assembly should take note of these documents. An interesting proposal came mainly from an esteemed fellow Member of Parliament Verbic, who mentioned that this law might change to write only for the purposes of an investigative commission. Given that the law is in first reading today, such a proposal could also be supported by most of the coalition Members and Members and would go into that change in the second reading. I think it's important that the investigative commission has access to this data. You, too, Madam Secretary of State, have found that the Commission of Inquiry has problems obtaining these documents. A series of documents must be requested by an investigative commission through a court of law. Some documents are obtained, but we also have a case where two different courts decide differently on the same thing. And what's the problem here? Here's the problem with the time component. The time component, however, is a function that plays for one who is in some alleged crime. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we need to create such an environment, that the Commission of Inquiry can carry out its work, which is its basic mission, but not that most of the time the Commission of Inquiry has to deal with bureaucracy, administration and fight the courts' mills, whether they are even entitled to access. I'm sure the investigation committee is wasting a lot of time here. On the basis of the proposal that was put forward, I am sure that in the second reading as well as the proponents in the Slovenian Democratic Party, if there is any assurance that there is a greater likelihood of support, such a proposal submitted by Mr Verbic would also actually be supported. However, I do not understand the views of SMC and Desus' members, who are primarily talking about some other things that this amendment of the law has nothing to do with. I really don't understand that the Modern Centre Party and Desus do not see a public interest in the 5 billionth bailout of the banking system at the expense of taxpayers, and you see public interest in Mercator's private company. I don't know what's going on here. Before the vote, we have one more day, honourable Members and Members of the coalition of parties of the modern centre, the Social Democrats and Desus, to take a step forward, the interest should be in all of us to protect the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who also elected us to the National Assembly. I am sure that this change of law will not jeopardize any confidentiality of the data. For it is important to point out that the authorities that we have proposed, which could have confidential information, are still subject to the law by which they must have information that is familiar and confidential in this way. This means that there is no danger if we support this law, we accept that confidential banking information will then come to the media. They will not, for anyone who becomes familiar with this information must also act in accordance with confidentiality. We still have time, and I'm sure we should really talk here about public interest, the public interest of a 5 billion-dollar bailout at the expense of taxpayers. It is fair for taxpayers to at least inform the National Assembly, the Commission of Inquiry and the working bodies of these data, which are in banks.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposal's proposal for the Magi Act. Marko Pogačnik and a representative of the Government, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. In this case, they will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word has a master [[…]] I apologize, Mr Primož Hainz is the first to take the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I should have said the following about this marriage myself. Actually, we've had our problems for 25 years, around surveillance. This is simply not the case; supervisory authorities in institutions, supervisory authorities in state-owned enterprises, supervisory authorities in banks simply do not work. And then you ask yourself, what now? In my opinion, the first thing that can happen is, first, how can you actually open things up in order to make business change is, of course, the public work. In this sense, I see this bill, as it is, as something that can contribute to this public, which can contribute to the opening, which helps us to know once what is actually going on with public money. The question is whether or not the commission of inquiry. Members, if I may say so, are also sitting on the committee of inquiry. So, Members of Parliament. And if Members of the Commission of Inquiry are related to certain data confidentiality, then of course this also applies to Members, but it is probably necessary to open the matter up more broadly, because people in some way have the right to know what is going on with their money. We are really these numbers, how much money we have thrown into the bank holes – but also the bank holes – are so high that we can't look away. We cannot act ignorantly, and we should also do something at this point, and I think we could support this law at this first stage. But it is true that there are some triggers, others we are not instigators, but the fact is that all governments have so far fallen on this point of control. The international financial capital that caused the great crisis was not controlled by any government, I think, at least not by these smaller countries. Then how big the Germans are and so on, that's another question, I'm not getting into this, but the fact is, none of the Slovenian governments have mastered this area. In a way, at least through the National Assembly, it has to be done through parliamentarians in some way. The other, of course, is a question that I will not share, but the question is when one of my colleagues is back on the path of total privatisation. I'm always in trouble there, and I have to be here with at least one sentence. Indeed, the German state banks, the Austrian state banks, all of us are proving that, in fact, it is not true that private capital is one that is disputed, that private capital works well, that private companies operate well; on the contrary, I think that even state banks can operate well under the thesis or under pressure, if we can say so, to the greater public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u49	Colleagues, colleagues, this also concludes the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 25, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 4. In the context of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 12 noon with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda. So in 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u50	Respected and respected! We begin with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 45 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government, whom I welcome, to the opposition's members and to the Member of the ruling coalition's question. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers and Secretary-General of the Government shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister and the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will raise the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Minister Karl Erjavec, Minister for Foreign Affairs, apologized for today until 2 p.m., mag. Ms Vesna Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior, and Mr Anton Peršak, Minister of Culture. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Mr Tanko wanted a procedural question. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a proposal for a meeting to be held on 26. 4. For I propose that the vote, which is scheduled for the 13th item of the agenda, be put to the end of the meeting, because in the course of the vote, another 7 hours are scheduled for discussion, and it is incorrect of the drafter of the agenda, from the President of the National Assembly to set such an inappropriate agenda or mid-meeting event. I do not think that this is worthy of the vote to be completed earlier, to the proponents, to propose all three points, to the representatives of the opposition parties, and then to the end of the vote seven hours later, the coalition will leave, the government will not and we will not speak to anyone. Mr Vice-President, I propose that we give the mid-term vote, which is foreseen under item 13, at the end of the meeting on Wednesday, 26. 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. We will take your proposal into consideration and inform the President of the National Assembly. But let me tell you that the chairman is to determine when we vote and when we don't vote, but don't take this as a final agreement, but we will take note. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you so much again for saying that! Look, Mr Vice-President, I did not propose this to be taken into account, but to decide how it will take place on Wednesday. If it is not up to you to decide today as those who hold the meeting, then I suggest that we change the order of the agenda on Wednesday 26. 4. First, we discuss point 18, then point 19, then point 20, and then vote. This proposal is in accordance with Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and must be decided on by the National Assembly. If it is not possible in such a way that we decide ourselves and do so, then I propose that we vote on a change in the debate and vote now that you put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u54	Mr Tanko, the assembly only votes on changing the order of the session, so I will consult and let you know, but we can vote now. Are you suggesting we vote now? Okay. Let's do this job. So, if I understand correctly, we are voting on Articles 18, 19, and 20 on the order. [[…]] You have a procedural process, and please, if you can once again present your proposal, on which we will vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you so much again! I propose that we first discuss and discuss the 18th item of the agenda on Wednesday 26 April, on the 20th, and lastly on the 13th item of the agenda, followed by a vote on those items of the agenda where this is envisaged.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thus, we vote in favour of the agenda on Wednesday 26, 18, 19, 20, 13 and 14 of the agenda. We're voting. It's not working? I interrupt and we vote again. Let's start by voting. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 43. (For the vote was 19.)(against 43.) I note that the proposal is not adopted. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Miro Cerar. We'll ask him questions in the next order, and I'm the first to give the word mags. Alenki Brother. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished President, Vice President! During the years of the crisis, Slovenian governments were forced to adopt measures limiting public spending. These were measures that covered practically the entire population of our society, from children to pensioners. I believe that there is no Minister or President of the Government who wishes our citizens harm, but the fact that as President or President of the Government, you are responsible for things working in the country and therefore responsible for taking the necessary measures, even if people do not support them, is because you know that what you are proposing is good for people and the country. At least that's how it's supposed to be. In 2014, when you, Mr Cerar, took over the leadership of the government, the crisis was over. The country has recorded economic growth, the highest in 10 years – 3.1%. Today, the fourth consecutive year of economic growth, we are still discussing crisis measures. Why? Are they still necessary? Are they only necessary because you do not make the most necessary structural changes that you have promised? I'm gonna touch the pensioners today. What, in fact, is the reason why pensioners still have savings? I agree with those who say that pensions in Slovenia are too low, but on the other hand it is necessary to be honest and say that a pension cannot be high if a person has a low salary if he works his whole life for a minimum wage of 600 euros. And this is a topic that we should talk more about in Slovenia. What needs to be changed in our country in order to open highly productive jobs with as high wages as possible? That is why today I will not ask you what you have done to make pensions in Slovenia higher, but why pensioners still do not get the minimum provided by the basic pension law. This, however, means the coordination of pensions and the payment of the regress, as provided for by the so-called law of STIZ. After four years of economic growth, four years after the end of the severe crisis, I would expect pensioners to receive the minimum required by law without negotiating with the Government. This is the normal coordination of pensions and the payment of regress to all pensioners at two levels. Is that too much? Because I believe that pensioners deserve what belongs to them, I ask you: Why do you think pensioners still need to be saved?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u58	The answer is given by Dr Miro Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, mag. Alenka Bratusek! Of course, I can only agree with the conclusion that the individual measures introduced during the crisis, including for pensioners, still apply. But they apply to a limited extent, because in recent years, it is said that this mandate has already been largely relaxed or completely abolished. So, like you said, this government, like everyone else, is working for the pensioners, for all the other segments of the population, to make them feel better. I should say, however, that your conclusion that we have already come out of the crisis in 2014. On the contrary. At the time our government started working, we were still in a deep crisis, we had an excessive deficit, the European Union gave us some over 10 recommendations about corruption, we were a country under strict scrutiny, we had no regulated governance of state assets. There was a lot of things that needed to be done. One of the key measures was that we had to consolidate the country publicly. This process, of course, continues. Now that we have established good financial management, we must insist. Therefore, these measures adopted during the crisis can only be phased out gradually in order to ensure fiscal sustainability for the benefit of the entire country of all citizens and citizens, including pensioners, in the long term. It is true, however, that we want and therefore work to coordinate pensions as quickly as possible for the benefit of pensioners and to help them achieve a better standard if we only talk about them, but they are not the only social part affected by the crisis, and so on. Let me just say that, in 2016, we harmonised pensions by 1.1%, which was significantly more than 0.4, in terms of regular harmonisation at that time. This year, too, we have carried out the harmonisation of pensions at a slightly higher level than was envisaged under the provisions of the law. This year all pensioners will be entitled to an annual allowance, so we have changed the law and after several years the annual allowance will be paid back to all pensioners this year, and next year the total amount of the annual allowance is foreseen at the level already before the entry into force of this crisis law, that is, Zuifa. To this end, we have provided an additional €21 million this year compared to 2016. So we're also taking steps forward for the pensioners, and as you can see, we're going to keep doing them, as I said before. We have increased the minimum pension precisely because we are aware of the difficult social situation of some pensioners. The amendment of the law, which we have also adopted, will provide old and disabled full-time pensioners with higher pensions than they are subject to the applicable legislation. As you know, there will be a new 500-euro pension, and a total of 45 000 291 beneficiaries will be provided with such a minimum pension, as we have provided for this year and an additional 20 million euros in total for next year. So these are our efforts. The situation has been difficult, we are going to do better, but of course I agree with you, more needs to be done and it needs to be done in such a way as to maintain public financial sustainability, but the government will not actually stop here. The government will take further measures, both with regard to the coordination of pensions and structural reforms. You know that the White Paper also provides a framework for the development of pension insurance in the future, and here we will certainly take further steps that will also bring a decent life to our pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u60	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you. As early as 23 December last year in the Alliance, we introduced a law that would ensure that pensions were regularly coordinated and that the regress was paid in full as of this year, and unfortunately we were rejected at the end of January. Only two parties in the National Assembly were against you, your SMC and your colleagues and colleagues from Desus. I will be happy to have your answer if you support such a decision by your party and also why. In any case, I would like your clients' support in my second attempt. After all, we introduced the law once again — on February 24th. More. We wanted people to tell you that they support this law, and in just a day and a half, we collected 5,000 733 signatures of support for our marriage. I hope that this is enough for colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly to succeed in our second attempt and to ensure what you promise for next year. But, Madam President, neither the fiscal framework nor the consolidation of public finances are and cannot be the reason that you are not predicting these measures until next year. The only reason is that next year the voters will tell you how pleased they are with your work. But that's not right. Pensioners are not and must not be any market niche with which any party can manipulate. If you really care about the pensioners, you will support our proposal and provide €21 million to make it possible to pay the regress to the full this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u62	I give the President of the Government a word in order to complete the reply. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The customer of the modern centre, SMC, and Desus acted responsibly at the said vote, as is done by the parties leading the countries that must have the full picture in front of them. Look, of course, we would all like to give more to the pensioners to help those or those who want more. But your proposal went beyond realistic possibilities. This would disrupt the public financial picture and once again become a bad master with public finances, and what we would have done at this point would have disrupted the system, we should have taken someone away because it would not have been enough and then we would have a deficit again over time and everything we had before. Unfortunately, I will not allow this as President of the Government, and I will also make this very clear. There's nothing preemptive about that. It's a long way from the election. It is simply a matter of having to manage public finances well with assets. That is why we are taking gradual steps for the better. But not like some people who die and then fall apart. We're working calmly, thoughtfully, moving calmly and stablely forward. And that will be our policy. We are aware that it is not easy because we need to be patient, but only then will we be a successful society for a long time. I guarantee that we will also coordinate pensions further, we will increase them in favour of the pensioners, but I repeat that the country will still be a good state-owned economy, in favour of all citizens. Of course the pensioners, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek, you have the floor to make a proposal to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u65	I suggest that we discuss at the next meeting what I am asking the President of the Government today. For you, Mr President, I hope you do not believe that 21 million, as far as it is necessary to ensure that we pay full regress this year, can prevent the consolidation of public finances. 21 million euros! With one swing, you donated 100 million dollars to a public servant. With another stroke, you gave the doctor 36 million. And today the problem is 21 million for pensioners. That's irresponsible. Four years of economic growth, successive economic growth should be sufficient to put an end to the anti-crisis measures or to the crisis measures imposed temporarily during the crisis. Four years of economic activity. When you took over government leadership, our country recorded 3.1% economic growth. If this is a crisis for you, then the crisis is still today, because to this day, unfortunately Slovenia has not exceeded this economic activity. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I invite you, for the first time, to discuss this, and for the second time to support the proposal on the table, and this year we have stopped saving on pensioners and on other categories of Slovenes and Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The second question will be raised by the Magi to the Prime Minister. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u67	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! It is completely absurd that at the time when we waited on our own borders for hours and hours, even after ten hours, to examine us, our documents, when we left our own country to Italy at that time, drove about 9 thousand migrants without any control. This is one of the absurdities of the European Union that we are witnessing to. How is that possible? Because part of the policy has taken the right to declare that the European Union's legal order does not apply to it – first, as you know, it was someone in Germany who said that the Dublin Agreement no longer applies – and then the European institutions and many governments followed it uncritically, unfortunately, Mr Cerar, with your government. Today we are witnessing a social experiment where young prospective entrepreneurs go abroad and migrants are imported. This experiment takes place throughout Europe, with the honorary exception of the Visegrajska Group. Unfortunately, even in Slovenia. Where it leads, even the rectors of individual colleges now warn. One of them wrote today that Europe, instead of being founded on Christian tradition and Christian values, is becoming an equal community, becoming some strange socialist creation, where the greatest social experiment in history takes place after the fall of Nazism, fascism and communism, when entire nations are changing, entire electoral bodies. It's a fantasy that the migrant flow has stopped. Of course, he has slowed down now because the elections are in France, because the elections are in Germany and everything will be pretended to bridge that time. But with the expected leftist victory — and Macron is, by the way, a leftist — in both of these two countries, we can imagine what will happen next. This is why it is now time for Slovenia to prepare. You know, the only positive measure lately was the law we helped you to adopt because your coalition was unable to do so. Unfortunately, this law, thanks to a lady who is supposed to protect human rights for all Slovenian citizens and citizens, is now going to the Constitutional Court, where the question is what is going to happen, because some of the coalition have said at the time of adoption that this will be for the sake of the pier and that it will end in the Constitutional Court. Interesting. That is to say, if we want to ensure the safety of citizens and citizens, if we want to protect ourselves from all possible consequences, including the possible collapse of Europe, which will not be fast, then there will obviously be a danger for some time, then it is time for action today. And I ask you, Dr. Cerar: What measures is the Government preparing to eliminate the harmful consequences for Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u68	I give my reply to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Before I mention the measures you want to hear, let me first say that it seems inappropriate for me to talk about Slovenia doing some social experiment to import migrants, as you said. I think that this is offensive to Slovenia, to all our people and authorities involved, as well as to people who are refugees who are fleeing from countries where they are actually running for their lives or in fear of their human rights. In Slovenia there may be a few hundred migrants or refugees that we provide protection to, and I think that Slovenia can not only do this, but it must continue to do so. This awakening of fear in humans is very damaging because you operate on unrealistic facts. We are very well aware that we will be able to accept a certain number of refugees only to the extent that we are able to offer them some integration, to train children to give people a job and so on. Here, to this extent, when we can integrate these people successfully into society, we have some very good examples in Slovenia that are taking place, and this makes sense. Slovenia must remain a humanitarian society in this respect. However, we will still doubtless reject illegal migration, all of which also pose security risks. So let me tell you what measures we are prepared to take. At the green border, our police at the crossings with the Republic of Croatia are still in tighter control. Members of the Slovenian Armed Forces are still helping the police, and we have also increased the police reserve. We still have at certain parts of the border temporary technical obstacles that serve to control or direct the crossing of the state border. Some reception centres remain in readiness, for example in Lendava and Šentil, which would be activated at the state border with the Republic of Croatia if necessary. We are also ready for a greater arrival of applicants for international protection. We have all this in our plans, and we are also prepared to do so in a comprehensive organisational way. The implementation of this plan shall be accompanied by a close operational group within the Ministry of the Interior. The Ministry of Health is also responsible for providing emergency medical care to migrants if such a need arises. Recently, as you know, we have established a government office for the care and integration of migrants. Its central role will be to provide for migrants, their integration, accommodation and so on. In short, everything I said before. I repeat, Slovenia is aware that it cannot become a domicile, i.e. home for too many migrants, because we are a country that is in the territory, by the number of people living in Europe, but as a humanitarian state, we know that we are solidarity, and we have always proved this. And that's what we're gonna do. A few hundred migrants, even a few more of them, are able not only to receive and provide but also actively and usefully to include in our society, so that we will all have a good feeling in the end and we will all maintain human dignity. On this occasion, of course, I would also like to thank volunteers, NGOs, humanitarian organisations, including local authorities and residents, who are all staying here with the Government in dialogue, for maintaining regular contact, and for preparing that if we have to, once again, take part in this assistance project and at the same time a project to ensure security for citizens. Such humane conduct and at the same time concern for the safety of our citizens, their assets remain the main priorities of our government. So far, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u70	Mag. Branko Grims, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you. I was hoping we could have a serious conversation. Again, the word refugee is used, which even your minister or secretary of state is no longer used and uses the correct expression of illegal migrants. What refugees! Only 28% of all who have come to Europe in the last period are from war zones at all. And they haven't come directly to you yet. So none of these are fugitives. Refugees in Europe are only those who fled Ukraine before the Russian incursion and then were accepted by only a multi-city group, while the rest of Europe is doing as if it were not, in its eternal shame, with the Germans at the helm. By the way, some of these were accepted by Slovenia. What is it about importing migrants from radical Islam? It's business. It's not war or fear anymore, but, come on, it's business. Even in Slovenia. Look at the case of Velenje, look at the example of those two lawyers who hired an ex-coupler in Crassus and where he's taking it. It is said that NGOs are already being directly referred to as smuggling. The Italian judiciary, or the Italian state prosecutor, are now drawing attention to this. And worse. If we look at one part of the legal order that has been suspended, it is a conscious violation of the law. Conscientious violation of the law, however, is a feature of criminal associations and in this respect, with all due respect, but one part of the European institutions and those governments that have helped do so act as the largest criminal association in history, in order to import illegal migrants. Even in Slovenia, what half a million have gone through, and this can be repeated. But surely now those in the quotas are being imported, and believe that Italy will come and demand an increase in these quotas because they are constantly importing into Europe, as well as someone else. That is why these measures must now be taken and therefore this madness must be stopped. Importing migrants from radical Islam leads to the end of European civilization, as we know it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u72	I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Mir Cerar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u73	Very briefly. There's only one thing I'd like to explain. I did not carefully distinguish between the word refugees and migrants. I used both. You'll see I used it in the right context. We are also aware that illegal or irregular migrations are a problem, a problem, a challenge, that refugees are a category within the term migrants who deserve a completely different approach. And I made that difference. We are also aware of some negative phenomena that even certain organisations, groups of people sometimes help to cross illegal migration. The police and other competent authorities are also aware of this. Work is being coordinated with other countries in order to prevent this. But still most of these organisations, non-governmental, humanitarian, voluntary, and people working for them are doing good work, so that I think we must continue to work with them in Slovenia as well as to establish this balance, so that we remain open to some extent to help people, so that we do not go so far as to endanger the safety of citizens and citizens and, finally, these people themselves if we leave them illegally in too many numbers to our country. By insisting on this policy, we will continue to ensure both security and humanitarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u74	Mag. Branko Grims, would you like to make a suggestion that the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u75	Of course, it is imperative that the National Assembly face the challenge of helping. We are in the SDS and will always advocate that each government must first help its own citizens and citizens, all those who, due to objective circumstances, are in need of assistance. Only then can any other help come in. However, this aid cannot be at the expense of the safety and well-being of its own citizens and citizens, so we reject the absurdity that every Slovenian migrant or azilante who has entered the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the official report of the Court of Auditors, costs this country a thousand EUR 963 each month, when they are awarded apartments equipped with glass ceramic plates, leather seats, LED TVs and the like, which the Slovenian family cannot afford. It is therefore necessary to establish a full social state first, in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution for Slovenian citizens and citizens. We have also proposed this in the context of an appropriate agenda item, which you have now put to the vote by voting just before, which is contrary to all the practice in the National Assembly, all the years now, you can go back and also have legal practice, as you know, in the normal Parliament. And it is a great shame to you, for you know very well that the things we are talking about today are those on which Europe will stand or fall. The Brexit has already happened. Brexit would never have been if there had been no influx of migrants from the Islamic world into Europe. That this brexit is also too late for the English, let me tell you that they have now had 2,000 acid attacks, which Europe had never known before without the import of illegals from radical Islam. That's never happened. That's what came up. These are things that are so far from our way of thinking that they require special, serious consideration and extremely serious and decisive treatment by any government. It is a fundamental issue of the security of citizens and citizens, of security as well as of values, without which all other values are actually becoming less important. It is a question of the existence of the European Union as a community, it is a question of the existence of national states, with Slovenia at the helm, for us Slovenia is the most important, and it is a question of the existence of a civilisation based on Christian tradition, on Christian values, on the values of enlightenment, on the values of humanity, on everything that we considered to be self-evident a few years ago, and now all of this is being questioned. And none of the darkness is more important than you, for it is safe [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u76	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the third question of Parliament to the President of the Government, Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the question of the mission. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, chairman. President of the government! The question I have asked you is one of the fundamental policies of your government, this is about the policy of building walls. First of all, I am interested in the procedures for the introduction of the new Schengen Border Control Regulation. This weekend between May 1st, we will certainly be witnessing again a major setback at the border with Croatia. Here your government seems to have been completely, completely unprepared for the events that were expected without too much imagination. Representatives of your government have repeatedly pointed out that Slovenia has expressed a number of concerns over the course of the process after finding out what kind of chaos it has caused at the border. If I did not know the work of the Modern Centre government over the last two and a half years, you would be wise to ask why Slovenia voted in favour of the regulation, but if it had had a number of concerns. But I'm afraid I know that answer too well. Because we are the guardians of the Schengen because the columns at the border are somehow necessary for our security and for the safety of the entire European Union. If that is the case, and if these measures are so urgent, how is it that you seem to suspend them every time there is a greater influx of tourism? Will these measures be necessary only for as long as this is worth your money? In the United Left, we are convinced that the regulation in question is harmful and unnecessary and that there is no good reason for it. And that's why I'm asking you: Will Slovenia take action to repeal this harmful and unnecessary regulation? If so, how? At the border, however, they are only the last in a series of technical obstacles introduced by this government. Leaking, misdirection, concealment is an integral part of the second enhanced border control measure. First, you sent an army with police powers to the border and amended the legislation so that it will no longer be possible to obtain international protection in Slovenia. Well, then you surround us with a wire and a fence that you're still setting at the border, you're obviously expecting the coffins of Croatian tourists to be stopped. In this regard, I am interested in: Why are all the documents relating to the acquisition of wire and fences secret? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u78	I give my answer to the President of the Government. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I really want to clarify again not only to you, but also to Slovenian citizens and citizens, that the regulation which has introduced systematic control at the external borders of the European Union is, of course, at the Schengen borders, a European regulation. Slovenia has been preparing for this regulation in the process of adoption, yes, you have rightly said, it has had comments, we have noted the problems that will arise and want to prevent them with some additional measures, but Slovenia has not been successful in doing so, as has Croatia. Let me say that both Slovenia and Croatia finally adopted a regulation. From the point of view of Slovenia, we are the guardians of the Schengen border, which borders us with the neighbouring country of Croatia. If Slovenia does not carry out this function, it will protect these borders effectively, as is bound by the Schengen Order, and now this regulation, too, will put the border on the Austrian border, on the Italian border, and then you can ask yourself what the situation will be for us – politically, economically and of course for every citizen. Slovenia, just by respecting the regulation, proves that it can be the guardian of the Schengen, while at the same time, in the framework of the pardonary provisions that this Regulation has, since these provisions, Article 8, allow for a slightly softer approach in certain cases, we have introduced such a softer approach and have made waiting at borders significantly easier, although it has been largely due to the holidays that have been coming and then have also come. At certain border crossings we were able to practically minimize this waiting almost to nothing, but some were waiting species. At the same time, we have been cooperating with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, informing it since January of how we are preparing for this matter, so we cannot say that we were not prepared for this. However, the regulation is hard and reflects that there is a major security problem in the European Union, terrorism, individual attacks on people here and there, and we know how scary it is for us who are actually part of this space. And even if it happens far away, we know we can't be ignorant of it. For these safety reasons, which may be explained below, this Regulation has been adopted by the members of the European Union. And Slovenia is a member of the European Union. I reject your claim that SMC policy is a wall-building policy. On the contrary. SMC is breaking through many walls, perhaps a little harder in your heads, but in many more quickly, because we have established much more dialogue in the political space than before, much more constructive dialogue, including with the neighbouring country of Croatia despite technical obstacles, we have good cooperation. But don't forget why we put these technical barriers that we've only placed on a limited part of the border, and it's temporary. Because neighbouring countries were uncontrollable in our village, starving, hungry, thirsty, sick people in large numbers were sent across the green border. Thousands were coming and only in this way could we convince the neighbouring country that it is totally inappropriate and also against European regulation and against certain human standards to send people across borders. This is not building walls, it was just a guidance maneuver so that we could normally receive people at entry points, record them normally, treat them, aid them with food, health care and accommodation. That's why it seems to me that many volunteers, the police, the military, the local authorities, the humanitarian organizations, were involved, far from what you call building walls, but some very good cooperation action, so that we could help people in distress and, at the same time, what is very important, protect our people, their assets and also something else. We will also be implementing this European regulation at the border in the future, because we have to, but also with targeted controls, when necessary to ease this rush at the border. We will also take care of all other possible approaches to make this waiting time as short as possible. Of course, we are in a situation, the whole of Europe, which we must take into account. However, regarding that documentation, there are rules under which the Government has complied with them. As far as I am aware, everything was in accordance with the rules and the purchase of these materials was carried out accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u80	Mr. Miha Kordish, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we cannot agree to a new reality that the President of the Government is deliberately trying to present. The fence is not a matter of historical urgency. Instead of strengthening her, we should crush her. On behalf of security in this government, this security becomes an insatiable beast, devouring freedom, devouring human rights. Apparently, it also devours our neighbourhood policy, which according to the new Roman neighbourhood policy, the tourist to Croatia is a terrorist. That's why our people have to wait five or more hours at the border. In his reply, the President of the Government talked a lot about the construction of the walls and why it was somehow okay, but he said little about why all the documents relating to the acquisition of the wire and the fences were secret. According to the Journal, we have very clear suspicions of illegality, even corruption. Apparently, the procurement documents were prepared prior to the government's decisions. The government here is hiding large sums of public money. Comrade Moon has already addressed you with an initiative to withdraw secrecy and I am interested in how you will define yourself here. Can you please explain your government's business to the Slovenian public? And then I'm interested and I'm asking the question again: How will you act against the regulation, or will you withdraw from it, since for the time being, it has been heard more than just that you are defending it, regardless of the inconvenience that this causes to the tourist columns, and what inconveniences can we hope for in the coming May Day? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u82	I give the President of the Government a word in order to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u83	Your statements, Mr Member, are so absurd that they would not actually deserve an answer, but I will answer because people may think you are right if I do not answer. That's why I'm gonna say it again. Your claim that the security advocated by this government is devoured, you said, freedom and human rights is completely absurd. That's not real. Human rights are very much respected in Slovenia, which is recognised by the Council of Europe, which is recognised by the international institutions, which can be asked by our ombudsman, regularly acknowledges in the reports, of course we have problems here and there, we correct them, we face them. But so dramatic and frightening people and trying to train them with some fear, with some sense of living in a totalitarian country, but it is really unfair and very harmful, very harmful for Slovenia. Just as it is harmful to say that we should step away from the regulation that classified Slovenia as the most integrated part of Europe. This is the position you took in the National Assembly. This is a fundamental guide for our European and foreign policies to keep Slovenia in any way in the most integrated set of European countries, so that our entrepreneurs can move from country to country without borders or without such border controls in the internal part of the Schengen. So that students can go to other countries without distraction. You just want to cancel it. What do you want, Slovenia back to the Balkans or what? I'm not going to go along with this, so I find this misleading debate very harmful, and that's why I've even responded to it and I'm going to answer it. I expect Members to respond to this, too, so that people will not be impressed by something that is in no way held up in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u84	Mr. Miha Kordish, would you like to make a suggestion that the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u85	I would like to make this proposal, President, because the President of the Government is serving the Slovenian public and this state council with the Flossules and with his firm stance, undoubtedly pianic advice. At the same time, it is strongly avoiding the answer to the question why all documents relating to the acquisition of wire and fences are secret. Regarding the columns, he spoke to my question about entrepreneurs without borders, but in this case it is obvious that entrepreneurs on our fence have earned only boundlessly, which is not what the President of the Government wants to talk about. After all, human rights in the Republic of Slovenia are respected so much that last week the Ombudsman passed the Aliens Act for constitutional review. Against a regulation that causes inconvenience at our borders, the President of the Government and his entire government will obviously not act. They're going with the tourist columns against the refugees with whom they're still scaring our people. But apparently only for as long as it's public service. When the waiting species at the borders become too long, then European security and Slovenian security, and all of this property and the lives of our people who are so severely threatened, become meaningless and the borders relax. The suspicions of dirty wire transactions remain unanswered in financial terms as well, the Prime Minister of the Government is bringing tourist migrants to Croatia, simply because there are no wars on the other hand. That is why I want the National Assembly to open a debate on the failure of the President of the Government to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u86	Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. The fourth and final question will be raised by Kamal Izidor Shaker to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Chairman. President of the Government, ministerial assembly, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! My question is very similar to the one before, but I will try to ask it in a slightly different way. The situation of crossing the border in Europe has changed significantly since 2015. As a response to the current situation, a regulation has been adopted at EU level. Today, the regulation on the implementation of systematic control at the external Schengen borders, which, due to increased risks, including security risks, introduces tighter controls at these borders. The implementation of the adopted regulation has resulted in a number of inconveniences and disapprovals between passengers, as we, too, have experienced a marked increase at the border crossings between Slovenia and Croatia, especially at the end of Easter holidays. Some of the border crossings between Slovenia and Austria were also slowing down. However, a number of questions have been raised in public about the relevance of border control when leaving the country. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask you for a detailed explanation of this measure, because I believe that this needs to be further clarified. In this national assembly, it is essential that certain things are repeated so that they may happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u88	You, Mr President of the Government, have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much for this question, honourable Member Kamal Izidor Shaker. To avoid repetition, somehow I'll start where I end up. So this Regulation, which Slovenia respects, although it has had comments when it adopts it, was aware that the problems concerning the transition to the border in columns will be, however, this Regulation is an EU regulation that we must respect. And we will continue to respect it. Of course, by applying the mitigating measures provided for by the Regulation itself. For example, target controls at the border of a particular group when larger columns or congestion occur. And there are other measures. In particular, the regulation strengthens border control on behalf of security and protection against potential terrorists. Then let me say there are other security risks, terrorism. It's a gun store. It's a drug trade. These are illegal migrations that also lead to certain security risks that are not necessarily terrorist and so on. In addition, the transition to the external Schengen border also allows for the transition of those European Union citizens sought by law enforcement authorities in the European Union. We must therefore be aware that this transition check is also intended to monitor the exit from the European Union to such citizens. The fact is that in most terrorist acts, I repeat, in most terrorist acts in the past period, European Union citizens who have the right to move freely within the European Union have participated. These are the main reasons, of course, among others, such as this one, some citizens of the European Union, as you know, are also going abroad and abroad to crisis areas where they join these various forms of fighting, the fighters, that is, the various armed groups. From this point of view, too, there is a need for tighter surveillance in the European Union's view. The key reason is therefore security, as well as the prevention of other worse crimes. The Regulation provides that all citizens of the European Union, as well as others, must be checked for their identity, that their travel document is authentic or counterfeit, and that passengers present a security risk to the European Union. Let me say that we have been very thorough preparing for this implementation of the regulation. Thus, in order to prepare technical means, in fact, at the earliest possible time, our border police are checking this transition of individual citizens across the European Union. Of course, problems were, for example, for Italian citizens who did not have these more modern sensors on the documents and data had to be scrutinised manually. In addition, we have called for an additional number of police officers to the border to be able to carry out this control more effectively. For quite a few months, we slowly but intensively prepared ourselves to be qualified for this oversight. As I said, the strategic interest of Slovenia in staying within the Schengen area. If Slovenia were to bypass this border control in any way, it could, in some way, allow Croatia, which is not part of the Schengen, but it is not the wisest thing to ask me, because it is only a departure from becoming a member of the Schengen, which is also in its and our interests, I hope. If I didn't get this done at the border properly, I'd just start doing it, like I said, by someone else, the Schengen borders would move north and west. Then we would remain outside this integrated group of countries, which is very important to us. We are still working to ensure that this temporary border control, which is also at the Austrian-Slovenian border, which is, of course, much nicer, but still exists, is eliminated. We work for this every day, but we have to protect the Schengen border. Let me stress that the key challenge in the future will be the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area. This is what we want, of course, because then the Schengen border will be placed on the external borders of Croatia, and there will be no more this problem between Croatia and Slovenia. It is true, however, that this can only happen in the next spring in ideal conditions, because Croatia was not successful at the last evaluation check, so the new evaluation begins for Croatia in the autumn. So we hope that she will succeed in the second spring, but she too may be implementing the Schengen regime. In Europe, the world is serious. Slovenia acts as a responsible serious member of the European Union. Therefore, we will continue to implement this Schengen Regulation by applying all possible mitigation measures. However, we will work at the level of the institutions of the European Union and also at the interstate level within it to implement a policy that will eventually be able to abandon such measures once the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u90	Mr Kamal Izidor Shaker, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your answer and your explanation! I would like to focus further on this part, which is related to passengers, which I am interested in: Has Slovenia carried out all activities so far both for passengers in respect of compliance with procedures in the most appropriate way of crossing borders as well as adequate legal protection of the Schengen border at the Slovenian-Croatian border? What would it mean if Slovenia did not implement this Regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u92	Mr President, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u93	If they did not implement the regulation, I have already responded and will repeat it, then it would be recognised as a country unable to maintain a Schengen regime. This could lead to procedures to exempt Slovenia from this regime, of course, by procedure. In the meantime, security would create a border at the internal borders of the Schengen, i.e. between Italy – Slovenia and Austria – Slovenia, even more acutely where it already is, where it is not, would be established, because they would find that Slovenia does not address the security risk that the regulation wants to eliminate. As regards people, both citizens and citizens of Slovenia, the European Union and others, we strive to be even more able to be friendly to them at the border in the future. This is said not only to enable them to cross the border as quickly as possible, but also to coordinate with some other activities to provide some accompanying forms of assistance at the border – to provide more sanitation, water and so on. Especially in the event of increased traffic, which is particularly significant for holidays or when the season comes. Of course, much depends on how we work with neighbouring Croatia. I expect both the neighbouring country and us to respect the rule of law of the European Union, not only have we all adopted this regulation, but we have tried to help in the best possible coordination to avoid unnecessary columns and congestion – for the benefit of people, for the benefit of economic transport and the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u94	I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. Minister of the Interior, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar should answer question number 5 mag. Branka Grims is absent because of her illness in connection with police action in the event of the flags of other countries or former countries or provinces being hanged. I ask the MP if he insists on an oral response or if he wants a written reply from the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u95	I want an oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer the question orally. We continue to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Dejan Židan, who will answer question 6 of Mr Bojan Podkorška in connection with the drawing-up of European funds from the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, the honourable Members have a nice greeting. Thank you, Mr President, for the question. We manage three warehouses. The Fund, which is called direct payments, is being fully implemented and we are currently in the third year of the subsidy campaign, for 2015 and 2016 all was paid in time, and the third subsidy campaign is now under way. From the Rural Development Programme we have a billion hundred, about 25% of ours, remaining from the European budget. Until now, that's what I mean. 3. 2017, €195.1 million was paid out of the new Rural Development Programme, which means that 17.7 has been used and we are on the average of the European Union. At this point there are many calls, only last year there were 20. Since more than 170 million money was available, a new package of tenders is coming this year. 150 million will be available to subsidise various investments, so I believe that money will be the same as in the previous perspective, when the use was 99.69%, so that this time it will be the same. If I understood correctly from the written magnetogram, you were further interested in what we would do to make money more accessible to the smallest farms because of the smallness of Slovenia. This year, there are two good news for the smallest farms, which are actually harder to get money due to the demanding papers to be filled out. First of all, the call will be worth 20 million, which we have agreed with the non-governmental sector, in the second half of this year. When the farms run, they will have €5,000 at their disposal for the most urgent tasks on their farms. The second is the amendment of the Rural Development Programme itself, which now allows us to allow less-income farmers to have at least 4 thousand revenue per year, but not more than one minimum gross wage, to go into a special measure, which is a measure where they have an investment of up to EUR 50,000. This is now being taken into account in the new investment calls. However, the advantage of this special measure for small farms is that it is not necessary to submit a classic business plan, which was a major problem and some parameters of the business plan should be included in the application itself. Especially the one that shows the farm going into some kind of upgrade. Whether it is, I don't know what kind of complementary activity, whether it's an irrigation system, or some other technological thing that gives the farm the opportunity to make development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, do you request a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u99	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Minister, first of all, thank you for your answer. Let me reiterate that I am concerned in this perspective of rural development 2014-2020, especially small farms. You have served with numbers, especially with numbers for farms that have already been paid in this period. We must be aware that we are already strong in 2017, that much time is no longer available and this perspective will end. Of course, we live in a time when, according to the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, 2 000 300 farms have ceased farming since 2013. I quickly calculated that these are almost two farms a day. This is mainly about small farms, which you yourself have talked about, that a lot of land in the Republic of Slovenia is growing. If I touch the invitation to tender. When I listen to farmers, as well as advisory services, they often say that these invitations are largely for small farmers, not accessible. And in some ways, it's illogical. Of course, it is said that calls are often for large systems. However, I must say that the fact that, of course, there is no possibility in the Republic of Slovenia that there will be only large farms. We must be aware that the specification is such that it will not be possible, because it is not only a Ptuj field, but another that the farms are hilly. It is therefore important for me to see as many of these small farms as possible in this perspective. As a member of Parliament, I hope I'm wrong. I've said this a number of times in this National Assembly that [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you, Vice President. Fertilization is significantly less than it was. If there were some 32,000 hectares under cultivation in 2010, according to the latest figures for 2016, the figure of 15 000 came and we are also carrying out a special programme – the call was for the first time on Friday – where we will give additional financial incentive for these also to start eliminating. In general, as far as the number of farms is concerned, the matter is quite simple. We have 470 thousand or a few hectares of agricultural land available. If we have an average farm size of 6.6, you can see how many farms there are. When we had an average size of 6.2, the farms were a little bit more. We are actually often given two types of directions. The first was to keep everything the way it is. On the other hand, contrary to the point, if everything remains the way it is, there will simply be no farms. Some farms, however, need to expand, because they live only on agricultural land, although most farms have additional activities. But as far as money is concerned, this is the easiest way to answer. If transfers via direct payments and the Rural Development Programme are on average, with delays, but not large, around €300 million, it is an important part, which is about 220 million hectares. You can see from this that payments are per acre. However, as far as these calls are concerned, which I mentioned earlier, the fact is that as little as possible is the farm, the more difficult it is to prove the economic viability of the investment. We can only co-finance investments that are economically viable. Some distance is allowed. As a one-time help to call it that, this call will be worth 20 million, which will allow them to run only the smallest farms and to arrange some of the necessary things for themselves. My wish is that farms will run, but nevertheless they should run for state money only when there is an economically acceptable project in the background. In previous periods, when the co-financing rate was possibly even too high, this has been found because the economy has not been calculated or sufficiently calculated or has been sufficiently calculated that a variety of farms have therefore come into business problems that they simply cannot solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will receive the reply of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Dejana Židana related to the implementation of the Law on the Management of State Forests and the non-implementation of the Economic Assembly of the Slovenian State Forests, d.o.o. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The question is often from the Member of Parliament, which I thank you for, and I think we both believe that the development of the wood industry in Slovenia is also an important opportunity. Therefore, I am also pleased that the last three years have grown at a 10% rate, although there is not yet what we need in the background, the development strategies in the field of forestry, but my ministry is not responsible for this. I'd like to say the following. As we look at the economic society of the Slovenian State Forests, it must be fully understood that the new society had some of the most urgent objectives at the outset. The first urgent objective, since we are all aware that, unfortunately, the law was made relatively late because there were so many coalitions and other coordinations, was to be with 1. 7. He even starts work. Many people were observing this society with interest at the time. The company started on time, so we removed the first threat. Another danger was whether what would be cut, given that the company was new and there were no lost sales routes, would be able to sell. And the company used to sell. Thirdly, we must all understand that last year we were at the height of the crisis due to the cranial attack. It is therefore quite right in our view that the company dealt mainly with cutting and remediation where the skull was most present. You can also see from last year's report that then some things went down because society focused most on what was necessary. I am fully aware that in Slovenia it is necessary to establish an additional wood industry, it is said that wood remains in Slovenia – at least the added value of wood, which is then consumed, area and possibly brought to a house or window or to any other final product – is significantly higher than that of wood only being sold abroad. But all you have to do here is say that that's what you have to do. If we managed to cut three to 3.5 million cubic meters a few years ago, now we're coming up with 6 million cubic meters. At this point, it is quite clear that we can also change the long-term strategy of managing Slovenian forests in its entirety, which has so far followed the need to increase density. But now, according to official data or expertise, we've come over 300 cubic metres per hectare, which means we can get closer to cutting the annual growth. This is currently 8 million cubic meters in Slovenia. I myself do not know any argument that society would do anything contrary to the guidelines set by the Assembly. I am aware, however, that the company is currently working on an annual plan for 2017, which was adopted at the Assembly. The long-term development plan is also subject to coordination, in particular coordination between the two sectors, which are not our forestry but in other ministries. On the other hand, as far as I know, society has also been given new management. The new management must probably be defined by what it will have to do. Allow me to say in the end, Mr Member, that our objectives are exactly the same: we need, we want a new wood industry. What is important is what I hear that SiDG is also helping to find new investors, both Slovenian and foreign. If we keep doing this, I believe the result will be a good one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u105	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to thank the minister for the answer. In a way, I also got relevant answers to most of my questions, because four of them were united into one, but I believe we have the same goals, after all, we were students of the same Faculty of Biotech. And we worked well there as students anyway. I just want to remind you of this number, which you yourself have pointed out that we did cut 6 million cubicles last year and that, according to some estimates, about 4.5 million of this wood, one or the other, ended up abroad, which is not proud of the Slovenians. Here I mean mainly the whole wood mass, not only the logs, but also the wood of poor quality, for which we do not currently have capacity in Slovenia. From this point of view, as a Member, I would like to see that the laws, as well as the guidelines adopted by the Government as a Assembly, have been implemented at a possible slightly higher speed. But most of all, when I drive from Koroška to Ljubljana, I meet 10 trucks loaded with beautiful wood that they drive – of course, somewhere other than abroad. I have also repeatedly, when we adopted this law, pointed out a number of lost jobs and that indirect economic damage was in one way or another in 20 years around 9 billion. And as you can see for yourself, wood industry and jobs would bring some economic growth, some estimate even 0.4% per year. Here, Mr. Secretary, I would like, above all, to see you as a member of the Assembly, which I believe you are also taking, after all, as a minister in order to [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, dean jedan, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you, Chairman. Thanks for the extra question. Maybe just some information, Mr. Member, that I believe will cheer you up. I myself met several times with representatives of both the forestry industry and the Jagari industry, both those organised within the Chamber of Commerce and Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. They had two wishes now. The first wish was to change the system of sorting, classification, so that it would essentially be completely similar to Central Europe, because then those who export will also find that it is easy because they compare two systems that are not comparable, that they have a false feeling that they get more in Austria or in Germany than in Slovenia. And that's what we're doing. So I believe that the last meeting in May will be such that we will coordinate and then we will go over the stage. The second wish was to upgrade the sales method, which the State as a assembly had accepted, how to sell from state timber, so that it would be possible to support investments through the provision of some percentage if the state aided by supply at market prices. But only the currency is important. I must say that we are also moving forward here, as the wood and sawdust industries say, that they need these two legal acts to make it easier for them to invest. However, there are quite a lot of potential investors in various areas, which I am pleased with. So it doesn't show that the country should have its own money, but the state should only create conditions. We've done something else. It is also during this time that an open call is open to register those centres that are ready to be taken over, and these are already existing centres where some economic activity is taking place that are ready to take over that wood that is attacked by the bulgar and other dangerous insects that are currently in the Slovenian forest. So the activities go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u109	I would just like to clarify that I will not require a debate in the National Assembly, but I would like to see this business model, which we have also inter-resorted before the law, come to life with the establishment of centres after the periphery of Slovenia and that it is also somehow established. Cooperation is already under way with the Ministry of the Economy to further intensify this and to fully implement the Law on the Management of State Forests, in particular the articles on wood collection and processing centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Dejan Židan will also respond to Mr Ljub Žnidar on the external trade deficit in agriculture. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for your question as well. In fact, in your question, I think that Slovenia has a billion differences between imports and exports since 2010. However, exports from Slovenia are increasing faster than imports into Slovenia. If there was a coverage level of 45% and 46%, according to temporary data not yet in the tables and the data were published in this provisional report for 2016, we have now reached a coverage of 52%. In practice, if we only look at this information, it must be said that this information does not tell us everything. This is because Slovenia has become a distinct area for imports and exports immediately. Luka Koper plays an important role here. This role only increases when we look at transport this year, so statistics also warn us that when we look at these balance sheets, we should also look at the balance sheets of production and self-sustainment in Slovenia. Here we now observe quite a few balance sheets that are important to us. First of all, the most important balance of what remains important in Slovenia is the balance of production of raw milk. Here I can see that since 2010, the production of raw milk has been increasing. What is important, however, is that the purchase of Slovenian dairy is also beginning to increase, which is even more important. What Mr Ranc asked on another issue is important not to export raw material, but consumer milk, yogurt or anything else, because it is more added value. We also have similar trends in some other segments. What is the Slovenian state doing now? In addition to the traditional methods of allowing agricultural and food production through direct payments and through the implementation of measures under the Rural Development Programme, we have found that further efforts must be made on the market. If our food production has a market, it produces more. And that's what you've seen in recent years. On the one hand, we have export activities, we divide export activities into three classic markets. The first market is the market of the former Yugoslavia. Here is our goal to maintain the production that we export there. Then we have new markets within the European Union, this is Central Europe. These markets are developing and exports are increasing. Here our food production also achieves relatively good sales conditions. But then we have third, third, some call it exotic markets. You've seen some activities in China, Russia and elsewhere. All these activities are successful, so we have succeeded, I think from 2000 until now, exports of food products will increase by 38%. So at this point every fourth food product produced in Slovenia is already intended for the export market. The second market that we see more than in the past is what to do to make more loyalty to home-grown food. Here, too, I think we are successful, because if we look through surveys, we find that there are more citizens looking for food in markets or elsewhere to think about whether food is also of Slovenian origin or at least that it is made in Slovenia. The third market, which we are also observing, is the market of public institutions. This market is also relatively larger, and here we also have some results to show, so that demand for Slovenian products is growing. But we've done a number of activities. Maybe the ones that matter the most. First activity, we organised regional meetings last year, where we brought all the public institutions or their officials and local food providers to the same place where they met each other and also made some first business arrangements. Secondly, we have also changed the rules of public procurement, which are now changing again. A very good change is that, in addition to having 20% direct orders to increase the amount of each contract, which has previously been limited to a total of €80,000, each package should not be more than €80,000. What is now new is, in fact, a stricter requirement for so-called environmental standards. I can also translate this, for example, if the food from the quality scheme is chosen by the quality of Slovenia, where there is a shorter transport route, it will essentially have additional points in the tenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u113	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answers. Of course, the external trade balance is of great importance to our country. The 2015 agricultural situation report made it clear that in agriculture we are recording a minority of less than one billion external trade deficits. This means that we import more for a billion than we export. This is a lot of money, for a country very big money that actually flows out of our country. If I look at this fact, then I can't say we're successful here. Bananas also do not grow in Germany, but Germany also has a positive balance in the agricultural field with external trade. I believe that there is still more to be done here, but measures are needed to do so. I agree with you, Minister, that in a certain trend over the past few years the situation has improved slightly, but absolutely too slowly. There are no major effects that would significantly or consistently improve the situation, in fact there is no major progress here. It's not enough, we know the advertisement Let's eat Slovenian and so on. That's not enough. Action is required. These measures cannot be traced. Okay, there's something small in public procurement. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u115	Allow me, Mr. Member, just some statistics. We in Slovenia produce food for about €2 billion, half a billion of which we export, so we have a billion and a half. In Slovenia we produce agricultural products, which is not the same as food, about a billion, billion, two hundred if it is a good crop. One part of this, or the smaller part, goes to export, in particular one part of milk, one third, now this is slightly smaller, one part goes directly as a meat raw material to food production, then it disappears, but in general we can say that we get half a billion from this balance sheet. So we have a billion and a half. Here, half a billion imports and we come to three billion spending. We can say, but this is such a rough data that it is, say, 66% of Slovenia. But it's rough data, statistical grave data. Where can we increase in Slovenia? We have absolute limitations, these are hectares of agricultural land. Agricultural land is the basis for food production for the first step. We have these 800 and a few square feet. Now with this new measure that we will attack these 15 thousand hectares if the measure goes well, in a few years we may get three, four, some optimists say that even six thousand hectares. We can grow here, but this is going to be growth, like, to some extent limited to resources. The next growth, where we can grow, is growth in the food industry, where it is also allowed to grow. And here's maybe two, three data. First data. We have an extremely important dairy industry. This year alone, the dairy industry is growing so as to buy our milk, i.e. Slovenian production, and in particular it is growing in production. Data, I think for the first three months, are already official data that consumer milk production has increased again in Slovenia by 10.5%. What is even more important is that it generates more money and the production of fermented products has increased by 33.5%. As the consumption of milk and milk products continues to decline in Slovenia, this in practice means that some small Slovenian products push away foreign products and, above all, strongly exploit foreign markets. At this point, it is very interesting to speed up exports to Scandinavian countries. As far as the meat industry is concerned, we're re-recording the increase in slaughter. The statistics are monitored monthly and are showing quite noticeable growth. What we get information in some way indirectly from what food companies in the bakery industry say is that we have growth here all the time now around 3% to 4%. So this is going to grow. As this grows, you will see further, even in the coming years coverage will increase. It should be borne in mind, however, that in some industries growth is only possible for the processing of raw materials coming from elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, are you requesting a procedural procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. I agree that there are indicators that also show this growth. Of course, we both want this growth to be even faster, which is understandable. Personally, I think that the power with additional measures, including targeted subsidies, would be, but not only so much, I would say, to just increase food production, but also by replacing domestic food, of course we speak here on the other hand also with a reduction. I can't understand that children in primary schools today are banging bananas instead of digging with homemade apples. But good, now they can't with apples either, because every year they're cold, because we don't have targeted subsidies to subsidize irrigation and to stop the cold. There are still some reserves with which it would be possible to survive more than actually with work, with the efforts of both the ministry and other segments, but there are still some reserves. Let us put together this reserve through public consultation, where there are other options, opportunities and where measures are still possible. And that will make us even more successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Minister of Finance Mag. Mateja Vraničar Erman will answer Dr Dragan Matić's question about unfair competition in the area of hospitality regarding VAT accounting. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor and thank you very much for the question raised. Two aspects of taxation of guest services are addressed in the question compared to the VAT trade. First of all, the issue of dealing with beverages or selling drinks is where I have to explain that the value added tax system is based on the European value added tax system and requires objective criteria for classifying individual goods or services either as a regular, general rate of taxation or as a reduced rate of taxation. Therefore, it is not possible to arbitrarily determine the rate or individual group of goods or services subject to lower taxation but to follow these objective criteria. In Slovenia it is stipulated by law that, as far as services or activities are concerned, this is a standard classification of activities. On the other hand, as regards the results of the operation or the goods or services provided, the relevant classification, the statistical classification, shall apply accordingly. It complies with these two objective criteria, considers the sale of goods as a commercial activity and is in fact considered as the supply of food or beverage service services. This also results in a different tax treatment where Slovenia decided, at the time of the introduction of the value added tax, to take into account a very wide range of goods and services which can be applied to a lower rate of value added tax. Thus, it has fully enabled the use of a lower VAT rate than the sale of goods in trade, as well as the sale of goods in trade, to be considered as automatic sales, while, on the other hand, in preparing food and catering services, it has decided to use a lower VAT rate only in connection with the preparation of food. At the Ministry we estimate that this distinction is justified and also appropriate, because of these changes in this area we do not plan. In the second part of the question, Member, you refer in particular to issues of possible unfair competition due to the implementation of the Law on tax clearance of accounts. For certain debtors who meet specific criteria, an exemption from compulsory clearance of accounts may apply. This exception arises mainly from Article 143 of the Rules on the Implementation of the Added Value Tax Act and thus from the interpretation of the Act on the Tax Certification of Accounts. With regard to these exceptions, I can confirm that the Financial Administration is also exercising a slightly more intensive control over entities which enforce such exceptions, but have not yet identified certain major irregularities. I expect the Financial Administration to prepare a comprehensive report on the implementation of the Law on tax clearance of accounts, which will also include an analysis of the exceptions to the validation of accounts. In the following month, because the annual data on changes in the amount of tax liabilities are now known, this will allow us to propose, if necessary, any amendments to either the regulation or the law by the end of this year, on the basis of this report. The end of this year is also a transitional period, which makes sense to me that these matters are intertwined. We note from the control data that it is not possible to attach to the claims of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry that there are major abuses here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dr. Dragan Matić, do you request a supplement to your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, Madam Minister, for your answer. I would like to add to my question, given your implementation, by saying that you have set objective criteria and that they cannot be arbitrarily determined. From the point of view of an accounting point of view, it may indeed be objective criteria, but in the real world in which we live, it is difficult to objectively defend that one and the same product, such as coffee, hot, black, sweet or bitter that we drink, is, in one case, placed in a commercial activity, with a lower VAT rate, exempt from taxes, and the owner of this machine does not have labour costs. This same product, which is consumed by the consumer, is so set up in the hospitality business that the owner of a restaurant has the cost of working force, pays higher VAT and also deals with the tax box. This both, this comparison in the real world of these objective criteria based on regulations and based on legislation, is not sustainable. My question was in this direction that legislation is adapted or also takes into account the real facts in the real world, because in my opinion the situation is not about promoting hospitality, it is not about reducing unemployment in this area, but it works counterproductively, and I therefore hope that this problem, which is also addressed by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, will be examined once again. As regards the second part of my question regarding these societies which are exempt from these tax boxes, I have pointed out more about the fact that these societies should not be established solely and solely for this purpose. Those companies that already exist are justified and also rightly defined as exceptions to existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. As regards this second part of the question, let me further explain that, according to the legislation, the Financial Administration has the possibility that if it perceives in practice that the status of society would be misused, they can propose a ban on the functioning of society through the application to the Public Prosecutor's Office by means of a proposal for action, so that the mechanisms are available. As far as the first part of the question is concerned, of course, as soon as we have a system of value added tax, where we are applying two levels, the general level and the lower level, there are always borderline cases where it can be argued in one direction or another. The question that you are addressing in your Member's question, namely, tax treatment of drinks and drinks in the restaurant compared to sales on machines or in shops, is a matter of our constant conversation or negotiation with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but at this point, as we have said, we have not assessed that it would be appropriate to act in the direction of reducing the tax rate on drinks and beverages even in market activities. However, in the opposite direction it would also not be appropriate in terms of ensuring the competitiveness of catering activities. However, we will also continue to discuss this through cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will ask the Minister for Infrastructure, Dr Petar Gasperšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u125	Honorable Minister Dr. Peter Gasperšič, colleague and colleague.Oh, my God! In October last year, the Law on Supplements to the Motor Vehicle Act, so-called Zorčič's Law, was passed. Zorčič was the main proposer of this law and the Ministry supported this proposal. It is the so-called ‘twenty mopeds’ for which, on the basis of this law adopted by the coalition, it is necessary to carry out a technical review, whether this moped is new or old. That is to say, it is necessary to carry out a technical examination and to register it. This law entered into force 15 days after its publication, this is said to be last November, but on May 1st, this is said to be a few days later, and it is the date from which these mopeds must be registered. This is just before the laborers and there are quite a few comments, in fact examples from the practice of how it looks, especially in proving the ownership of these mopeds, which no longer have papers, if I say so myself. It is necessary to obtain two witnesses and here the matter in this particular case, which I am now referring to, is very complicated because it is also very important how old this moped is, where the employee states that this moped owner cannot register because he is too young or too old. In short, it is anomalies because instructions have come that in fact, those who want to acquire ownership of the vehicle must be 18 years older than the vehicle. I'm talking about the old moped registration. But an even greater anomaly is that witnesses must be 15 years older than this owner who wants to acquire this property. I didn't check to see if that was true, but this is the case that was refused to register such a moped.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you, President, for your word. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the registration of mopeds whose speed is structurally limited to a maximum of 25 kilometres per hour, it is true that they will need registration from 1 May of this year. In this regard, we have carried out a number of activities at the Ministry after the adoption of the law, so that we have also prepared all the sub-legislative acts and all the systems so that matters concerning technical checks and registration can be carried out. According to the information we receive from the field, things are going well and there are certain complications that I will later touch. Now all I want to do is fly over these formal demands. With regard to the technical review, you asked the thesis that a technical review should be carried out immediately. This is not true, because the technical examination of the moped before its first registration in the Republic of Slovenia is only necessary for those mopeds that are older than the deadline for the first technical review, it is said, four years. So when you get to register a moped that's up to four years old, you don't have to do a technical examination, but if it's older, you have to do a technical check before registration. As far as the age of the vehicle is concerned, procedures are known. This shall be done on the basis of the available data, either in the declaration of vehicle suitability or in the certificate of conformity or in the model year code in the vehicle identification number, or perhaps in other moped documents submitted, for example, on the basis of factory data during the production period of each type or moped model. This technical review shall then be carried out on a professional organisation empowered to carry out technical checks on vehicles. However, data on the technical inspection carried out are part of the register of registered vehicles and are then also available for the implementation of the registration procedure. So much for this technical inspection. The frequency is also determined in the law as these technical checks are then determined. However, it has already been agreed or promised by me at the time of the adoption of the law that the following amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act will also reduce this frequency for these mopeds at a speed of up to 25 km/h, it is said that these technical checks will have to be carried out every five years. It was also necessary for these technical checks to be carried out in a field similar to that of tractors. As for these problems that you mentioned, which were also discussed on social networks, you can see that the owner of the vehicle must show that he is over 18 years of age and that the witnesses are then 15 years older than the owner. This was the case of one of the authorised organisations. We have examined these matters and, accordingly, have received detailed instructions on the requirements of these procedures from all administrative units as well as from authorised organisations carrying out these technical checks. This is how we count, and we don't even have any more information to come up with this kind of complication. These procedures, according to the information I have at my disposal, take place in the vast majority of cases as intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. Now, I wouldn't repeat so much nonsense that these bikes that can reach a maximum speed of 25 km are vehicles or these mopeds that drive somewhere at an average speed of 15 or 17 km/h for a technical inspection. That's really a lot of nonsense for me. You also mentioned that the first time the law opened to add some improvements. Dear Minister, let me inform you that we, in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party today, have tabled a bill to eliminate these anomalies. In Slovenia, it is not new, but older bikes with auxiliary engine estimates of between 15 and 20 thousand and stories such as those that we have dealt with or similar or different, will now be after this date when this is mandatory – now these commitments have not yet been made and the owners have not actually regulated this – a significant number. To avoid this really unnecessary administration, because there was no argument and data that these mopeds, which drive at an average speed of 15 km/h, caused the accident by the technical failure of this engine, could not trace this data anywhere. If there is no such data, only on a constructive basis are laws made, not on [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Gaspersich Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. As to why we have actually decided that such mopeds should also be registered and why helmets are also needed for drivers and passengers on them, there are reasons for transport safety in particular. Not so much because these vehicles drive at a low speed, as you're saying, the problem was on the other side. We all know that these vehicles, which we didn't need registration for, have been many, I'll say, processed or modified in such a way that they allowed for much higher speeds than this. Which is structurally specified for this type of vehicle. This was a key problem in the use of these vehicles because it was not possible to properly control this matter on the ground if these vehicles were not registered. This was therefore the main reason why Slovenia was in fact one of the few countries in the EU that these vehicles were not registered. It was therefore necessary to put in place order in this area and I am convinced that this amendment will now be in place and that it will also be possible to monitor this properly and thus make an important contribution to greater transport safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Žnidar, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I cannot agree with you here that the main reason for the introduction of this law was that the vehicles were processed. If we look at what it looks like in practice. Now this motor vehicle will be brought to the technical inspection as it drives home, this block will be removed and this moped will be able to drive 60 kilometers an hour again. Whether the license plate is up or not. This will be an example of practice. I'd suggest something else. As this law will now be opened, it will assist the profession, preparation, ministry and proposers, in a public debate that will show where those shortcomings are and what additional proposals are, or is indeed justified to register these bicycles with an auxiliary engine, to drive them for a technical review and so on. I propose that a public debate be held, which will then help in preparing a supplement to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Member, your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 25 April, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec will ask the Minister of Culture Mr. Anton Persak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! This year we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the accession of the Primorska home country. This is a very important holiday, as after suffering under Italian fascism, Primorska was finally liberated from her homeland. But freedom and connection, so to speak, have we gathered the Primors ourselves. As a result of austerity measures, the government organises this central state celebration only every five years, which is also a eloquent fact that reflects the country's relations and priorities. We also know which government has taken these measures, but they have not yet removed them. During the interim period, the celebrations were thus taken over by the municipalities and the Association of Fighters for the values of NOB in cooperation with other civil society organisations. Last year, so to speak, the celebration was held in Postojna, and it was actually an all sea holiday attended by more than 10,000 people. There are also celebrations of the accession of the Primorska mass event, which are attended by a large number of people from both Primorska and other parts of Slovenia. The celebration is of great symbolic significance, while at the same time it is a point of meeting and connecting. The celebration was usually held on Saturday morning, and this year the Coordinating Committee for State Celebrations and Events, which is called the Government, is chaired by you, has decided that the celebration will be held on Friday at 20 p.m. It is true that this is the exact date of the holiday, but this has completely changed the role of celebration or the very concept of celebration, which will sooner become a chamber TV event for a narrow circle of electors, not, I'll say, a human assembly. That's why I'm asking you: Why did you decide to change the date of the celebration on the day of the return of Primorska to your homeland? Why did you decide to change the concept of a mass event into a sort of chamber event? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u137	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. Of course, I agree with you that returning Primorska to her homeland is a very important holiday. This holiday was celebrated regularly between 2005 and 2009. Then in 2010, as already mentioned, the then government adopted a system of state celebrations, according to which some celebrations with national celebrations should be marked every five years. This was not only about saving, but also about arranging too many celebrations that had multiplied in the past. As you say, the Associations of Fighters for the values of NOB Primorska with the municipalities were co-organizers celebrating this state holiday after 2010. Since 2013, the Ministry of Culture has co-financed the celebrations on certain national holidays through public calls, allowing or facilitating their implementation. This also applies to the celebration of the accession of Primorska to her homeland. The last celebration should be held by the State in 2012, and was cancelled by the then government, as in that year it cancelled all state celebrations, with the exception of three, as well as funds for them. The current government and the Coordinating Committee for State Celebrations and Events are working to ensure that the provisions of systematisation are adhered to. For this year, the committee has adopted a calendar, after which it will celebrate the national celebration on 15 September, the state celebration will also be held on the day of the rebellion against the occupying party and at the 500th anniversary of the Reformation. For the location of this year's celebration, the Auditorium Portorož, ZZB, the Association of Associations of Fighters NOB and Municipality of Nova Gorica intervened only after the adoption of the calendar, but we listened to their arguments and tried to implement them as much as possible. After several meetings, at which representatives of the municipal municipality and representatives of the Association of Fighters from Nova Gorica or the surrounding area participated, the Coordinating Committee proposed to the Government the relocation of the location of the national celebration to Novo Gorica. Of course, both congregations had to agree. We also accepted the desire that the celebration should be outdoors, that it could be mass and that it would include a directed artistic programme, which would make the celebration much richer in Nova Gorica than before. Why Does It Celebrate Friday, 15 / 1 September, 8:00? Part of the reasons in the nature of the programmes is the celebration of recent times, which build a lot on so-called multimedia content, which is, of course, very difficult to present at sundown in an appropriate way. Another reason, though, is the expectation or desire to see as many viewers as possible. The show will be open on September 15th, as was desired, so it should not be after the holiday. According to experience, we can expect more television viewers at night than on Saturday morning. Last year’s celebration saw about 27,000 people on television this morning, on Friday evening the practice shows that we can surely expect more than 100,000 television viewers. With regard to attending the event, the celebration will begin at eight o’clock, ending at nine o’clock in the evening, it is said that it will not be too late for people to attend. I think that both of us and all of us strive for the same goal, it is said that the holiday is celebrated as decently as possible and that we can see it as many viewers as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Dr. Vatovec, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you. I know that or I am glad that these coordinations have also taken place with the congregation, with the Union of Fighters, and that an agreement has been reached to change the date and location. But I still have a question about this: Why Friday night? I used to talk about it being a big holiday. And even at the 70th anniversary, I think we'll find it more difficult to expect, let's say, fighters who fought at the time, who were still alive, and who would rather come to such a celebration on Saturday morning, I'll be honest with you at eight o'clock in the evening by the end of this show. As I understand it, the concern of the Union of Fighters and the organizers in general is that due to this term too, relatively late evening fewer people will come to the celebration itself. As I mentioned earlier, there were usually between 10 and 15 thousand people at these morning celebrations, and I don't know if it's worth this TV show. That's exactly what my question was: Whether it is worth sacrificing, in particular, this socialization event, where a large number of people get to one place in order to reach a greater number of people in front of television sets. As you said, however, celebrations are regularly broadcast on nationals and those who will not be able to come to Nova Gorica will be able to watch them through television sets. I think that in some ways this balance may be unbalanced, as far as those who will not be able to go against Nova Gorica are concerned, mainly because of this term. So I'm interested in: What is the origin of this thought of doing so on Friday night? Is the number of viewers reason enough to decide?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u140	Mr. Minister Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much for this added question. The coordination committee, when dealing with the question of the relocation of the celebration and how to organize it, on the one hand, was based on more or less years of experience with celebrations, and of course from the desire to see it, if I may say so, as many Slovenians as possible, wherever they already live in Slovenia, and not only people from nearby or a slightly further area of the venue of the celebration. We know that mobility of still living fighters is, in many cases, a problem. Last year, on the day of the resistance against the invader, she was moved from Trbovlje to Ljubljana, because Ljubljana is more widely accessible and somewhat the same distance, regardless of where someone lives in Slovenia. The experience with one of last year's celebrations in Cyprus also shows that it was such a date that the celebrations in large numbers were attended mainly by veterans and that the celebration had quite a view on television, I think of the celebration of the day of sovereignty. This assessment may thus seem doubtful to anyone how much more direct participants would be if the celebration were, as you say, in the morning and not at eight o'clock in the evening, and whether this number is now, if it represents several thousand people, on the other hand, this all-Slovenian television tour and the experience that the number of television viewers is at least three times, four times higher if the celebration is in the evening. However, the judgment may be one or the other, I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for Culture Mr Anton Persak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you for asking. Greetings to the Minister and the three ministers! My question is on the subject of cultural wealth, cultural heritage, for which the Ministry of Culture is responsible in relation to the strategy for managing our wealth. What's this all about? Last month we had this opportunity and this honor and opportunity to visit the Borl Castle among the others at field practice. There we were somehow introduced to the possibilities of revitalisation and the possibility of starting this pearl in Haloza. Despite all of this, as a human, I felt that somehow these things could not move because, on the one hand, he held his hand over the Ministry, on the other hand, the congregation had something of his own, and the third party was actually a cultural society that wanted to move something. Therefore, in fact, I am interested, Minister, in the active marketing of this property of our cultural heritage, in some expropriation in the positive meaning of our castles, which, because we have very good on the one hand, are said to be practices and on the one hand practices that are not somehow harmonised. You know that cultural tourism is one of the types of tourism, and even in the world, this trend, which brings great profits, is, after all, Slovenia is one of the best in this segment. I'd like to hear your thoughts somehow. It says: Do we have a management strategy with this cultural wealth, specifically with castles? Are you thinking about renting this castle to an interested owner for 99 years? Of course, I'm talking about renting under clear terms and rules that must be adhered to to to invest in having an interest in a company, an individual, a society, anyone, that has a marketing opportunity. We know that the country unfortunately does not have enough money to equip everything, but in this way, we would have the opportunity to preserve the cultural heritage, market it and at the same time restore it. It may sound that way, I'll say, very naive, but I'd like to know what a vision your ministry has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Pershak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u145	Yes, thank you very much for this question, honourable Member Ferruga. On the one hand, I regret that, as originally envisaged, our Secretary of State did not join your visit to the Borl Castle. This was originally intended, and then somehow it was said that there was no need. Why? Because she is an expert in civil architecture because she knows history, this recent history of Borla and also attempts to establish the Borl castle in this way, as you have just mentioned. A few attempts in this regard have already been made in the past, from 1995 to 2016 a number of funds have already been invested in the castle, about 756 000 euros. As it is said, it was also in an attempt to sell the castle, but according to our regulations, how this is going, how these auctions are going, of course, it has not finally come to this. Let's say that in recent times the palace of Slivnica was sold to Maribor, which was previously managed by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which was now sold to a Russian buyer. In view of the desire expressed by your question, you might point out, above all, that the Ministry has in recent years been very intensive in considering how to implement measures and objectives that would encourage the users of culture and creators, in particular informed owners of heritage and visitors from Slovenia and abroad. We are aware that this is a great tourist potential and in many cases it is already being realized as such. Let me mention some of these destinations that are among the most successful in terms of tourist visits. So it is together with Postojna cave Predjemski Castle, Grad Sneznik, Grad Strmol, Grad Rajhenburg and, of course, Ljubljana with medieval core, with castle and Plečnik architecture. Then there are Mediterranean towns along the coast with Venice architecture and saltinas, Postojna Cave, Bled, this is actually the first large castle that combines itself with a tourist visit recently. Škofja Loka with Škopheloški pasion, Kras with Lipica and Štanjel, Škocjanka caves and so on. As far as the strategy is concerned, the Strategy for the Management of Cultural Heritage could be given the title. So far, the ministry does not have such a strategy, and in preparation, the cultural heritage strategy, which should also have an emphasis on this content, is said to be management of cultural heritage, in a way that this cultural heritage is to a much greater extent than it is to sustain itself today. At the Ministry, before the adoption of this document, we are working hard to protect and restore cultural heritage, on the issues mentioned above, and we are warning the Government and Members, even today, for example, of this. We also have a lot of communication with other departments, and we warn these departments, particularly MGRT, of the tourist potential of cultural heritage, especially since we know that cultural tourism is becoming the world's leading tourism industry. We have therefore also proposed a series of measures from this point of view so far. We are also aware that cultural heritage is crucial to the promotion of Slovenia, to the improvement of the quality of our tourist offer, that it is important for the quality of life of all citizens and that it also offers the potential for additional employment in this area. We would like to understand this and include other resources among the priorities and that we would all come to realize that certain objectives can only be achieved through cooperation and integration. The pillar of cultural tourism is also located in Slovenia, in particular castles, where local communities and ministries combine dozens of museum content. All major cities in the country other than the coast, where [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you're requesting a complete response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u147	I agree with you and your way of thinking. So, this strategy is in the process of being prepared. I think that's very good, including what you said. So, I agree with you that it must be connected both with the MGRT and probably also with the Ministry of Public Administration to foresee a public-private partnership to make it a little wider. We must not be so sad about the way we think that if we hire someone or if anything is given, it will be alienated and someone can pass on the cultural heritage. It is what you have said that we are starting to think market-oriented and that at the same time we can, as you say, because examples of good practice are to be introduced into this strategy and see what is possible to market. Slovenia, however, is such a pearl of tourism that each segment, if processed, I think we have enough opportunities to raise the level, to raise employment and to maintain and maintain this. So I absolutely support it. However, as far as I am aware, there will be one topic on the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Culture, so that cultural tourism can be discussed. However, I think it is also necessary to be made public to know, somehow to communicate, that this is also one of the most important segments, which we often forget, is neglected and unfortunately fails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Tone Pershak, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u149	I just want to add two more points. The first is that in Slovenia we must also encourage awareness of the value and potential of this heritage. There is a problem with us, of course, that we ourselves do not see this potential in this heritage, we do not see this value, and somehow, when we explain it through culture and explain it, a lot of people listen and say, yes, yes, because you are right, but in the next planning of tourism promotion, forget about it. Another problem is that certain rules from the past need to be amended to a certain extent. I mentioned earlier that we have already made some attempts or the ministry before us, how to rent as you suggest in your question, but the current rules that are actually regulating this are in some way preventing this, because it is necessary to make a valuation and then below a certain proportion in terms of this valuation. We know the case from Germany, in particular in the area of the former East Germany, where, of course, facilities under very different conditions, strict, were also paid for one euro of rents, but with these other conditions allowed the renovation of these facilities and, at the same time, very efficient marketing of these facilities for tourist purposes. As I say, the current rules are hampering us, we also foresee some changes in this cultural heritage strategy, if, of course, there will be a hearing about this first in the Government and then in the National Assembly as regards the terms of the lease and other terms of the promotions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkrodšek will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u151	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question will concern, Minister, the Slovenian National Forest Company. The largest mission of this company is to have forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We both know, or we all know in this Chamber, that when this company was established, many had concerns, including at the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, in the company itself, a tour of this company, even on the committee in Kočev, there were many open questions. My question, Your Honor, concerns the following. Even today, my colleague was talking about selling wood, quality wood, to export a lot of this wood to neighbouring countries, especially neighbouring Austria. My question, however, concerns less quality wood. It is our job, the Minister and us Members of Parliament, to take care of these state forests and, of course, also to worry about citizens and citizens. Before the establishment of this company, citizens and citizens could purchase this less-quality wood. This wood was mainly designed for wood, for winters that people always care about, every year. In short, they gave demand, got a budget, paid for this budget, and within 14 days also, of course, received this less-quality wood, which was mainly intended for wood, for the heating season. Many citizens and citizens, or in the electoral district where I was elected, and elsewhere in Slovenia, are now in great fear because this is no longer possible. When they put this demand, people who work in the field there's no problem that they don't do it qualityly, but then they don't get it anymore, it takes, I don't know, 3, 4 months and people are worried about it. Now the question is: Is this less-quality wood also mass-exported to neighbouring countries, or is there any other problem that this wood cannot be bought anymore? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Diane Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you, Chairman. Mr Member, also thank you for your current question. I'll answer like this. The government, as a congregation, meets the sale when it adopts rules for the sale of forest forest varieties, which was 15. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There, through rules such as the Assembly, it allowed for both public auctions, the sale of quantities to well-known processors and the sale on the pond. From here on out, I'm talking about the information we got from Sidg. Procedures for sale already started in December 2016 for a 700,000 cubic metre. But the demand was ten times higher, so basically for 5.3 million cubic pounds of ice and 1.3 million other round meters of wood. The company’s management then decided to take into account both the price offered and the customer rating when selling and distributing, and whether the production chain within Slovenia is established. From here on in, there were also some protests in essence, because demand was significantly higher than what the State Forest had at its disposal. What you are asking me today is what was wrong with wood or why this good practice, which was in the old years, is that concessionaires were less valuable wood, especially beech wood, sold for firewood, was not offered in the first package to local communities and individuals, and I have also addressed this question myself, and I expect to get an answer in those days. In any case, I must say that I understand that the first few months after the establishment of the main quantities must be sold. In any event, I also expect that good business practices that have made it easier for some people to live without damaging state property will be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, you have a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you, Minister, for that part of the answer. I've heard a lot about numbers and, above all, we're going to have a question with your other work, which is of course interested in all our citizens and citizens. I think, once again, that our concern is of course for the state forest and our concern is also for everyone living in this Republic of Slovenia. It is worrying that someone who is persistent and skilled in e-mail writing insists on one month, and one month can achieve this goal and, of course, succeeds in obtaining this offer or budget, the wood pays and receives it, and many people do not even know it. So, of course, I call you Minister, you will make this appeal to the proper names and surnames. I would like and kindly ask on behalf of all those who care about this less-quality wood that they have bought in the past and that they also need for the next winter. And we both know that you can't buy wood for the smoking season at least a month before winter. Dear Minister, I will not apply today for a debate on this subject in the National Assembly, but I would, of course, like to tell you and lay it on my soul that if these matters do not come to pass, I will ask the same question again in May. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u157	I can only find out, Mr Member, that we are thinking exactly the same way. I'll pass on both yours and my opinion. But I also know that since 1. 5. The company has a new management. It is well known that I replied to the other Member a little earlier that the rules for sale are being upgraded, because of course this is a six-year period behind us and it is known where to upgrade, that we will pay particular attention to these things that you have warned about. Also possible as information – a meeting at the Ministry, because the Ministry is competent to draw up draft rules and, of course, to comply with others, it will be 17. This year's 5th. Then I also expect that the final solutions will be agreed so that we can send government material, what we can do as a congregation, so that we can give guidance as a congregation through the rules adopted. Thank you for your concern.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will ask the Minister for Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, I would like to ask you further for your detailed explanations on the concept of new co-financing of the operation of the Joint Municipal Administrations. In fact, the draft amendment to the Law on the financing of municipalities in its 26th Article amends the arrangements for co-financing the operation of the Joint Municipal Administrations. The draft proposal raises the threshold for co-financing from the two previous municipalities to at least three municipalities, while at the same time the level of funds varies between 20% and 50% in several classes, with the maximum amount of state resources being allocated to the common municipalities and municipalities with the largest number of municipalities involved. The Joint Municipal Administrations, which bring together only two municipalities, will no longer be eligible for co-financing for two years after the adoption of amendments to the law. The proposal encourages large systems of joint municipal administrations. Are there any grounds, Mr Minister, that these will be more effective and rational than those that we carry out in view of the rationalisation of business and the real opportunities in the area in order to ensure the quality of the performance of these tasks? The proposed law, or draft law, is too much to say that it stimulates the establishment of joint administrations, where larger or municipal municipalities will be established, since the large administrations cannot be organisationally covered by a small and medium-sized municipality. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: On the basis of what arguments do you think that the proposed amendments to Article 26 of the Community Financing Act will improve inter-agency cooperation, reduce the costs of functioning of administrations, optimize the functioning of inter-agency administrations? Do you not see the proposed reduction in the funding of joint administrations as an additional reduction in funding and the burden on municipalities? Why not, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, allow the congregations to agree fully on these issues? Why, in this case, is there, in our opinion, hyperregulation, because it is local self-government? Does the proposal for such changes raise doubts about the capacity of municipalities that are themselves capable of making arrangements that will be most meaningful to ensure the efficiency of administrations? Do you plan to co-finance the area of budgetary accounting in the final proposal of the law? For your answers, Minister, thank you very much already.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Minister Boris Koprivnikar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you, honourable Member Horvath, for this matter. Dear President! First of all, let me say that, first of all, it is not about any reduction in this co-financing, as the level of co-financing for the common municipal administrations remains the same and even more, and it is also envisaged that these funds will increase by increasing the average, and in 2017 they will amount to, I think, EUR 4.5 million. Secondly, we do not regulate cooperation between the municipalities, but we only determine when this cooperation can be co-financed. The cooperation or co-financing of the Joint Municipal Administrations has been taking place since 2005, where we said that at least two municipalities had to participate in at least one joint task. In fact, since 2016, we have 52 joint municipal administrations in which 202 municipalities are involved, there is very large fragmentation, very small number of tasks that actually unite them, so we find that the actual decision for this assembly of municipalities is not so much out of commission, I would say, the goal of greater efficiency, rationality of operation, but simply to obtain State support for these tasks, which also must be carried out. Let me say that this is not a right, it is an incentive measure with which we want to encourage local communities to connect, and this encouragement is also financial support. And I mentioned earlier that this has been the case since 2005, after the year 52 joint municipal administrations were formed, in which 202 congregations were involved, nothing else has changed in the law, and it was also possible before that the congregations could be completely equal to one another and combine tasks, and not even two of them were united. It is said that the measure as such works, but we want to make it more concentrated so that it does not become too fragmented. The basic purpose is to optimise the functioning of the municipalities so that the efficiency of these joint municipal administrations is actually increased. Perhaps the information that I am correcting is 30 to 55% co-financing, this is the novel proposal that is now being prepared, and that the basic criterion is to bring together at least three municipalities that perform at least three tasks, then get 40% co-financing, and then, if they combine more tasks, co-financing is higher if they merge less, but of course less. In addition, it can be pointed out that the number of these tasks, which are included, has increased from 6 to 11, that is to say that there is also a larger number of tasks that can be combined by the municipalities and that this proposal has also been coordinated with the municipalities, that they have been coordinated meetings. We even had a consultation on the operation of the joint municipal administrations, I think there were over 70 participants, and it is also in line with the written positions of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. This is a measure that has been coordinated with the municipalities and is, as such, we believe, well prepared. Once again, let me stress that this is an incentive measure to bring together municipalities. The municipalities are completely left to themselves whether they will serve or not. No one's forcing them to do this administratively. It is only an administrative basis for municipalities to obtain a basis for additional co-financing of the operation of the Joint Municipal Administrations. In no way do we interfere with the autonomy of the functioning of the municipalities and their organisation of the tasks they actually have to carry out. And if I just list what are the tasks that are now recognised in the measure as a basis for co-financing. These are joint inspection, municipal registrar, legal services, municipal administrations, internal audit, budgetary accounting, environmental protection, space regulation, civil protection, fire protection and traffic regulation. All these tasks, if we unite among the congregations and feel that it makes sense, will also provide a basis for co-financing from this source. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for these explanations. In the meantime, you must have been engaged when you said that this was an incentive measure to unite municipalities, to bring together municipal administrations or, more precisely, joint tasks. I understand that. Members also move in the congregations. You said that you had education and that you were preparing the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and probably other representative organizations of the municipalities, but I can say that in the Pomurje from which I come, there is not much enthusiasm for such efforts. I believe it's an effort. I also believe that money is enough or more than it has ever been. However, you know, Mr Minister, some things are theoretically working very well, but not in practice. And, of course, if the municipalities do not combine certain functions, certain common tasks, which you have exactly listed, then they will in some way be sanctioned because they will not receive this co-financing. You are, of course, encouraging them to do so. But I'm still asking myself, under the line, whether you're trying, whether you're trying or not, you won't mind, Sisyphus' work. Would it not be preferable, Mr. Minister, to invest more energy in this both in the coalition, in the government and, of course, in the National Assembly, in order to finally reach the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia, i.e. at the second level of local self-government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Boris Koprivnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, yes, I'm doomed. It is not about bringing together congregations, because I repeatedly stress that the existence of municipalities and their functioning is a matter of autonomy of local self-government, and I repeatedly stress that I am a great advocate for the integration, the integration of tasks, the cooperation between municipalities. Because we need to find that 52% of Slovene municipalities do not reach the statutory threshold for municipalities to exist, that is, 5,000 people. It is logical to encourage small congregations to have more stable, more orderly jobs in such a way that they are also connected. I don't know what the audience's enthusiasm for this measure is, but once again, I stress that this is a measure that stimulates the municipalities to connect more, more professionally and more deeply. This is not the right of the municipalities. This is a measure by which, at the national level, we promote this cooperation and the integration of these common tasks, that is, if the municipalities do not want to do so, they do not do so and there is no reservation, nor does anyone force them to do so. As far as theory and practice are concerned, maybe that's what it is. In practice, she showed the theory that she did not achieve her purpose by combining two congregations with a minimum, usually one task, just to obtain some additional funds. It was a different purpose. The aim was to strengthen these tasks and to make the congregations more stable. It is precisely because of this practical experience that we are making these corrections in the draft legislation in order to better achieve this objective, as we have said, a more stable, more professional and more rational functioning of these tasks, which, in any case, must also be ensured by the municipalities. And if you talk about the provinces or Sisyphus’s work, the provinces will be based on the gathering of some of the congregation’s original tasks, but this is one of the very good examples of how the congregations are able to agree on what tasks they are willing to combine. As in the Local Self-Government Development Strategy, we have also stated that the fastest and shortest route to the provinces is when we determine what are the original tasks that the provinces manage. For they cannot carry out the same original duties as the congregation, the province, and the state. It is necessary to determine what these original tasks are. That is why it is this encouragement to strengthen inter-agency cooperation at the level of pooling of tasks, one important step in the search for this set of province's original tasks. We think it's going this way, not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, a procedural proposal for a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that the Minister and I have raised an extremely important issue, this is a matter of local self-government. And, of course, also now in the last part of the implementation of the second level of local self-government, i.e. the provinces. I think that once, in the 2004-2008 mandate, we have already defined exactly what the powers of the provinces, whose functions are transferred from the municipalities to the provinces and whose functions are transferred from the country to the provinces, and in this sense money from the state budget must also follow those tasks. In line with what I have said and, of course, also in line with the local self-government strategy, which has stalled in the debate on the committee responsible somewhere, I would suggest, Sir Vice-President, that the National Assembly hold a debate on this content at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will decide on your proposal tomorrow, 25 April, in the framework of the votes. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will ask the Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members, Members, distinguished ministers, especially the Minister of Health! A few years ago, unfortunately, the emergency center of Ptuj fell out of the network of emergency centres. But it's been a while since it was said, but the emergency center on Ptuj will be. However, still more than 110 000 inhabitants of Lower Podravje do not have the same health care, as other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia do in Slovenia. Why am I talking like that? By the beginning of the construction of the emergency centre Ptuj to date, unfortunately, it has not yet arrived. I read in the media a while ago that, not least before now, more than a month ago, there had been a meeting with you, distinguished minister. There's some things you talked about. I'm specifically interested in: How far is the Ptuj Emergency Centre project now? When can we expect a start? How will funding be provided? What's the timer? When can you be at the wider bottom of Podravska region, if I may say so, we promise to receive the same or at least comparable quality health care as they have elsewhere in Slovenia? We know that this area is already one way or another essential under the average of Slovenian development, and somehow we must not allow ourselves to be given comparable health care in this area. I'm asking for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Member Susana Lepi Šimenko, thank you for the question, although everything about the investment and construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre has been answered several times. As you can see in the question, of course, the Ptuj Emergency Centre fell out of the network for reasons that were not explained when we built it with the help of European cohesion funds. Today the situation on this project is like this. On 21 March this year, the Ministry of Health forwarded the Ptuj General Hospital Management Review Report on the Project Documentation Review and a description of the medical and general equipment for the needs of the emergency centre at Ptuj General Hospital. This was also an agreement on the visit of the Director, the Mayor and the President of the Council. At the same time, the Ministry asked the Ptuj hospital to examine this review report in detail and, where necessary, also to supplement and clarify it accordingly. It should be said that this report found that the building permit essentially expired in March 2017, which is why, of course, the Ptuj hospital extended the validity of this building permit. The hospital was also duly requested to complete the project documentation and submit a statement confirming that the findings of the review report are duly taken into account in the revisions of the project documentation, which will, of course, be confirmed by the reviewer's certificate that the project is appropriately corrected. As you know, we included this project in our programme already in July 2015 and also provided money in the budget. Unfortunately, I will say again, the Ptuj hospital has not yet provided its part of the relevant participation, which is little less than €585,000. However, the Ministry of Health has been on the budget fund's specific headings for the construction of €1 million 909 000. And since the General Hospital Ptuj presented a new investment programme in early 2016, which increased this investment value by as much as 20%, it was necessary to amend the timetable, the financial structure and, of course, to re-apply for the entry of so-called NRPs or national programmes. This increased investment requires an additional EUR 54,000 million. Now I must say that in addition to the financial situation, the liquidity situation of the Ptuj hospital is very poor. We must say that the Ptuj hospital has a long-term financial commitment of almost half a million euros on the basis of a long-term energy rehabilitation loan, that it has short-term liabilities to a state treasury loan, that it has the highest outstanding liabilities to suppliers and users of a single account plan among all public hospitals at the end of last year, and that it amounts to more than 23% of the total hospital's revenues. A number of interviews and attempts have been made to help the Ptuj hospital gain its participation of EUR 600,000. Intensive discussions and coordination are still under way mainly with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance, as it is one of the possible solutions [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you very much for the word and for the answer that has been given so far. We all who live in the vicinity of Ptuj understand and read about the poor financial situation of hospitals, but not least citizens and citizens are not to blame. It is probably someone else who is responsible for the poor financial situation of this hospital in the past. And we are now assessing that this mistake will somehow be that this emergency centre falls out of a network of emergency centres that needs to be fixed. In one way or another, it will be necessary to find a solution to the fact that this emergency centre on Ptuj is actually being built and that all of us who live there can have better health services. Dear Minister, I know you failed to give a full answer. That's all the facts you've given. I really want to know: How will this bridge the provision of these 600,000 that Ptuj Hospital should actually contribute? When will construction actually take place? When will the first services of this emergency centre in Ptuj be for all citizens and citizens living in the area? I'd like to ask if you could give me some time stamps you have right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u175	Thank you. I will continue where I have concluded that intensive negotiations are now also taking place with the Ministry of Finance, because the possibility of solving at least part of this financial problem is the proportion of Ptuj Hospital in a way that could go to the surplus of Ptuj Pensioner House in the budget and from the budget reserve back to the account where this could be considered as an appropriate proportion of Ptuj Hospital in this contribution to the construction of the emergency centre. However, it should be said that according to the methodology we have taken into account in the entire construction of the network of emergency centres, Ptuj would have a so-called C3 Emergency Centre, a centre of similar size according to the square and, of course, an appropriate area and apparatus, such as in Trbovje and Brežice. I believe, I hope we can solve this as soon as possible. Then, of course, we can also be able to provide the hospital with these relevant statements and documentation corrections and, of course, an additional million €55 000 will have to be provided. But once all these things are cleared up, we will, we are all ready to start essentially with the invitation to tender and construction.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! Madam Minister, as one of the main objectives of the amendment of the Higher Education Act, the objective of establishing a predictable and stable system of funding for higher education has been highlighted. Finally, this is also a requirement resulting only from two decisions of the Constitutional Court. For example, the 2006 Decision contains a requirement for the definition of public service. At the time of the adoption of the amendment of the Higher Education Act, this was repeatedly pointed out, although the issue of the use of the Slovenian language was highlighted in the public opinion. Now, the situation that should have been taken up and not discussed today shows not too encouraging a picture, at least not for a society that wants science, development and progress. Madam Minister, I ask you kindly for the answers to the following questions: Why are twelve still being paid for the basic funding pillar of higher education institutions in the school year 2016/17? Why is the Regulation on public funding of higher education institutions and other institutions not adequately amended for the period after 20 June 2016? What are the plans of the Ministry for the period after 30 September 2017 or how is the financing of the core pillar envisaged after that period?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Member, let me first explain that funding is not for the school year but for the calendar year. This is a period of the financial year and thus periods of time. Up to 12 months in the current year. The Regulation is being prepared in accordance with the amendment. Although the institutes are currently funded after 12 years, this does not mean that they are not financed more stable and to a greater extent than the innovation already envisaged. This year, all institutions will receive €13 million more, and this is also in line with a more stable, sustainable and sustainable way and, of course, support for the development of higher education activities, as you mentioned at the outset. What is important about this is that the new regulation, which is being adapted annually also, of course, in accordance with how and in what way we provide the means, is being brought into line within the so-called basic but also variable work brought about by the amendment. We therefore had to obtain all the reports on the functioning of the institutions first in the first third of the year, on the basis of these reports, to find out the achievement of the objectives and also to anticipate, on the basis of these objectives, that part of the additional funding, which also stems from the foundations of the amendment. As it is said, the regulation is now in coordination, we are coordinating it with stakeholders and, of course, also with the wider community, and in this way it will allow for further stable funding. So, all universities, seductions know what they can expect this year. However, the method of payment is conditional on coordination in the first part of the year, both with the reports and, of course, with the growth itself, as seen in the first third of the year. This means that we are following the objectives of the amendment and that, of course, we are also preparing new starting points for a comprehensive law on higher education, in which we have also committed ourselves to solving the public service area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček, do you request a supplement to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I thank you for your comprehensive answers. And now I want to know: When do you expect this new law on higher education to be ready for us to get it on the parliamentary bench? Because it is necessary to resolve what is a public higher education institution, whether it is only universities within universities, namely Ljubljana, Maribor and Primorska, whether I also belong to the Public-Private University in Nova Gorica, or whether they are also institutions with concessions. These are the questions brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court. These problems, which I have pointed to, also manifest themselves in this area. That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you very much. You have raised several questions that touch on various areas. What the Constitutional Court has imposed on us in some way is a rather fine period of this, first of all, to harmonise what the public service is, or what it is, and what activities are, those which the institutions must carry out in the public service. We also coordinate this with representatives of the entire university council, as well as other stakeholders, social partners, students and others, who make a significant contribution to harmonising, in fact, what public service represents in higher education activities in this country. At the same time, we also have a task, and this is in line with the Court of Auditors' reports to harmonise what they mean and under what conditions concessions can be granted in higher education activities. This is a second topic that is already being addressed by the Working Party. And it is these two areas that will then be able to say very precisely and clearly and at the same time to answer your questions raised. The starting points for the new law have already been considered, they have already been in public, they have experienced different interpretations, visions, even very contradictory views in particular areas. We have now defined all these visions and are looking for the right path to actually respond to everything that the Constitutional Court imposes on us, as the Court of Auditors also tells us, not just that, especially that we should place it on a developmental level for all higher education activities. We have also committed ourselves to the committee responsible to bring most of these answers to the summer, and I hope that, together with our colleagues, despite the very different views on how to write this down and ultimately implement it, we will also be able to ensure it in accordance with the proposed deadlines.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u184	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Dr Anji Kopač Dark.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, I ask again about the functioning of social work centres. In fact, I believe that double criteria are once again proved when it comes to different forms of violence, different forms of social exclusion in the family and different forms of responses to it. Now let me remind you of the Korean boys. Because of some difficult circumstances — a lot of talk about social issues — Grandma and Grandpa were taken away. On the other hand, in early April, there was a terrible tragedy in the town of Virshtan — I know the matter very well because my father is there — and it ended the worst of all, as it could be, the death of a father and the murder of a son. The fact is that, according to the figures of the surrounding people who know things, the neighbours were also with them, a great reason for social distress. The fact is also that in years ago the centre dealt with the family, but very briefly, it was only because the boy who had problems in development was not supposed to attend school. Nothing happened. After that, the boy went to school, and his transportation was enabled, but the situation in the family did not change. It was a single - parent family, living alone, father and son, and in severe distress. I'd like to know, Madam Secretary-General: What were the reactions of the Centre for Social Work, even compared to the Koroan boys, where the action was extremely fast, and here was a 13-year-old boy, and 49-year-old father lived practically all years alone, the mother abandoned them? I'm interested in these double standards because they're present, you can't deny them, and you won't be able to because I know things firsthand. I'm actually interested in: On the basis of what and do all social work centres actually have the same orientation when it comes to such difficult situations in society as the case mentioned above? There is also much to say about the letter that his father left at the event, it is said that he found no other way than to take his son’s life first, and then to himself. In short, Minister, I'm interested in: Why such double standards of social work centers? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u186	Answers Minister Anja Kopač Dark. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Your Honour, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, thank you for the question. I'll probably do it again, like I've done in this room many times. We probably all know that social work centres are independent public and social protection institutions that run procedures in accordance with the law. You have asked me a question that says that you will ask me about the monitoring, conduct and actions of the Centre for Social Work in cases of domestic violence. So it is my responsibility as Minister to tell you how the legislation determines what the powers are. This is regulated by the Domestic Violence Prevention Act. It is also important to adopt a new family code setting out this area of delegation of competence from the social work centres to the courts, which will only apply in 2009. Therefore, an important legal act on marriage and family relations is still in force in this part. The fact is that the tragedies that are taking place in our families are, above all, tragedies that are not the place for them in this way in the National Assembly, absolutely not with data, discussed and talked about the double criteria that social work centres have. On what basis do you create such an opinion that anyone has double standards and has not been considered? Here is the question of what is in accordance with the law and whether it has been done in accordance with the law, but not of course the conviction of any individual who is confronted with whether or not it has been dealt with on the basis of what someone has said and may have thought. And I think it is absolutely right that the National Assembly should be alerted if the legislation has been violated, if the procedures have not been carried out properly or in any way. It seems unacceptable to use this space to address the questions that have been put forward in a specific case that you know very well that I do not know that this has happened many years ago and that this has been the case in this way. Of course, you can ask a question to the director who will answer you in accordance with her powers. Because they act on a case-by-case basis, social inspection, which is responsible for overseeing the professional work of social work centres, can do so. As ministers, however, I think it is important and crucial for social work centres to reorganise, in particular, the provision of legislation that responds to modern challenges. The Family Code – I thank you for having been adopted in the National Assembly after many years – and in particular the reorganisation of centres for which I am working hard with all actors and I am trying to accept the reorganisation because I believe that it is necessary to change the organisational structure of social work centres so that they can work more and more time on the family in the field. But this has absolutely nothing to do with what you're exposing. In fact, you suggest that different treatments have been conducted and that the Centre for Social Work has not acted properly. If you feel that he has not acted legally, you are, of course, obliged to initiate procedures to determine this responsibility. Just talk in the National Assembly and point out again some sense that the centres for social work are not acting or acting completely arbitrary and that they are acting, I don't know what you said, double-crossed, but it seems to me that we are weakening institutions that are important. Social work centres are carrying out important, very sensitive work and, of course, flat-rate assessments of bad work do not lead to citizens being able to have more from social work centres to be an institution to help, but an institution to become an institution to which everyone can turn and relax their anger. And I don't think that's in anybody's best interest, and I believe it's not you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u188	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Chairman. Minister, we're already used to your arrogance. But let's go in one order. In the case of the Korean boys, you went to the press conference yourself. Moreover, you provided information unlawfully to Gabi Čačinovich Vogrinčič, who at the time had no jurisdiction whatsoever and there was no contract. We know that, and that's what the Information Commissioner has been talking about, but we haven't closed this story yet, and we're going back to that story. But I'm not talking about things here and I'm not asking about things that are not known to the public. I draw all data from publicly available data. The Centre for Social Work dealt with the family in some way in 2012, 2015, when a boy or boy attended a regular elementary school. After he went to another form of school, he was just monitoring the center. Accompanied, respected, and the surrounding area can say that there was no one anywhere to live, not only in poverty, but in difficult situations. Because you probably know what it means as an expert and how to raise children with special needs. In short, I have a response center, it's right here on the list. I wonder how you didn't give control here? Some things do. Some things don't. Everything was fine for you here. It wasn't all right, Minister. It wasn't all right. And the answers, you know, you can always give control or demand what happened. The fact is that the deviation of data from the environment is quite different from those provided by your services, as you also have a human resources impact on it. So please don't talk to me about independence, because we're going to get addicted quickly. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u190	Minister Anja Kopač Dark, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u191	Even if we had another 14 hours here, we probably wouldn't be able to come up with an answer together. That's a fact. You said I could give control. There's a minister here who can't give anything, but he can call a proper inspection under the law. [[advertising from the hall]] No, you said I had control. [[advertising from the hall]] In the end, there are important details that you keep turning. The fact is, you're reusing the family tragedy to point out here some stories that don't really have a question, who could and could anyone stop if the social work centre did otherwise. I don't know. In the case of Jessenic or anything else, we'd have a question here again, and we'd be wondering why in Jessenica, the director or the director didn't do what you think she should do. If I understand yours, you're taking the initiative to have work under control. This initiative is legitimate and can be transmitted, but there are no double criteria here, but simply certain things are controlled because they are consistent with social inspectors who have so-called regular controls and extraordinary controls. And regular controls are every year according to what is to be determined. In view of the maximum critical points identified, controls shall then be carried out and extraordinary controls may always be possible. And if I understand you're taking the initiative in this surveillance and I'm just going to ask, in accordance with my powers, what's been going on here, and if I do, I'm going to ask for emergency surveillance. But here's the dot. Then there is no need to say that there are double criteria, yes, not that they are treated differently. I do not think that this story and specific cases in the National Assembly are necessary, nor do we need to deal with them. But I can answer you as you have asked the question that the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence is a separate legal act that has brought together the issue of domestic violence. The fundamental guide and purpose of the law is to act by the authorities to prevent domestic violence and to protect victims of violence. All institutions in the country are thus obliged, within their competence, to address domestic violence as a matter of priority and to provide assistance to victims and not to place the responsibility for helping victims to others. However, the basic principle of action is the principle of proportionality. The latter means that the authorities and organisations are obliged to carry out all the procedures and measures necessary to protect the victim in the light of the level of its threat, to protect its benefits. The measures should therefore also be adapted to the level of the victim’s threat in order to avoid excessive interference with the family. The fact is that the multidisciplinary teams are always designed to participate in them in addition to social work centres and other institutions that face this issue and participate in the resolution [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert would like to make a proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr President, I think we need to discuss this. Why? Now the minister wants to be the master of word conversion, but these themes are too difficult to play with by turning words. See, in this case, Šmarje’s Centre for Social Work at Jelšah never replied that there would be any reason to take this child away from a father who obviously couldn’t do it. He also wrote that, and he said that, and he was also a psychiatric patient. It is a sad fact that I, as a Member, must call on the Minister to initiate procedures and then initiate so-called control through the inspection service. That's sad. Look, it was two people, two lives. That's what the secretary should do on her own. And it's actually about differences, big differences, if we're just looking at the Koroan boys, how quickly you got them out of here and here, where for 10 years the father tortured himself with his son. Look, it's not the use of tragedy. It's a pity you're not doing your job. For the ambassador must call for you to initiate control in such tragedies, then not to laugh at the minister, I would hold my head. Two victims were here. That is why, of course, I propose that we discuss this, because I believe that social work centres should still have the same vats and act in the same way, if it is a matter of hardship, if it is true that a family is simply unable, but not that on the other hand, we take children and they want them, they are able to raise them, and where even the legislation has been broken just to take them away from them. The President, I ask that this be voted on at the time of the vote, in order to hold a public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u194	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. Dr Ange Logar will ask the Minister of Culture Mr Anton Persak a question. Dr. Logar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you, Chairman. The Minister and I will obviously meet again on the subject of the Minister's cultural policy in front of a certain institution. In fact, from my last question, why did he take such an active stand on the side of the union in the event of a dispute between one of the public institutions, namely the Slovenian Philharmonic, a successful institution which last year carried out 220 000 Euros of revenue over expenditure, and where the minister acknowledged that he obviously has one vat for some institutions and changes their internal acts or founding acts, and does not deal with other institutions, two new supervisory institutions immediately exercised control over that public institution, including labour inspections. This confirms what I was afraid of and what I asked the Minister at the previous meeting in the context of the questions sent. So I'm asking the Minister, I'm giving him this opportunity to say firsthand: In the meantime, how much was involved in the resolution of this dispute? If I'm a little more specific: How many times has he met with representatives of the Slovenian Philharmonic Union? How many times has he met with the director of the Slovenian Philharmonic? In fact, I think it is in everyone's interest that we do not have a constant war in cultural institutions in Slovenia, if I may put it that way, and that culture serves its purpose, that is to carry out the fundamental task for which it is also established. I also want to know: Who will be responsible for the damage caused by this sentence? This liability or damage is very concrete, amounting to €110,000 due to the cancellation of the New Year's concert. I also ask: In the event that the court finds that the sentence was illegal, and given that the minister made a very visible stand on the side of the strikers, the minister resigned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u196	Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Logar, thank you for the question. First, a few such specific answers as to what questions you have asked. What is interesting is that you yourself mention that the Slovenian Philharmonic at the end of last year has shown a minimal surplus. What is particularly interesting about this is that, at the six-year report, she predicted an increasing loss and tried to impose responsibility on the Ministry. After we requested a recovery program, however, things turned out to be a minimal surplus. The Labour Inspection, of course, is not a matter of the Ministry of Culture, nor has the Ministry of Culture of Labour Inspectorate called or in any way sent to the Slovenian Philharmonic. In order to avoid any speculation, I assume that the work inspection came on the basis of any call from employees. How many times have I met since the last session because you asked me a question about this last time, I've met with the unions. I have to say, I haven't met or met with the director at this time. It is true, however, that the question of whether the sentence was legal or not is being dealt with at the initiative of the Director of the Slovenian Philharmonic Court. However, what seems important in this regard is not the issue of legality, of illegality, for which there are other authorities that will resolve it, it is probably not a matter of my opinion, especially since the law that regulates it is already quite old and regulates it very much, let's say, an approximate way of saying it, but the question is whether, for the past 10 years, the disagreements in the Slovenian Philharmonic have persisted, that the first calls for the Ministry not to appoint a current director, as I say, for 10 years or at least 8 years, that this has escalated, since no minister has responded to the complaint that this has escalated to a sentence, whatever it is, and whoever sees it, whether it is still possible to expect some normal cooperation in a public institution and, in particular, that it will give rise to the ultimate results that we all expect from Slovenia. I come from culture, I know, at least to some extent, how public institutions work in the field of art, and I know, I have an idea of what is possible in the circumstances currently in the Slovenian Philharmonic. This was why we proposed two amendments to the founding act, which are both legally legitimate and possible. I do not know why, in the past, the Ministry of Culture and the Government has decided that there are no provisions in the law that allows a third of the members of the Council from the types of employees to be included in the founding act earlier, since in some other public institutions it is not a problem. We have now accepted this request of employees. Just as I think, as I say, coming from culture, it seems self-evident that in a public institution such as the Slovenian Philharmonic, the Director, if he is not qualified to do so, he needs or an assistant, as he is called in this case, a house conductor or assembly, to consult with an ensemble, because he is dependent on how the ensemble will cooperate with the future house conductor or the assembly of the choir, depending on the quality of the work of both the orchestra and that choir. For me, it's self-evident.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Minister Ange Logar, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u199	I don't know if the minister listened to what he said. The minister here told us that for ten or eight years, orchestras have been complaining about the director of Philharmonic. Since no minister has heard these complaints or heard them so far, Mr Peršak has listened to them. And how? By announcing the resignation of the director of Philharmonic. So now, if all the ministers in front of you have trusted the one who was put up by the institute's council, so in a way extended the Ministry's deadline, you've chosen a second direction, you've picked up the union line. And what happened because you picked the union line? You said it yourself. That's why the shock came up with a strike. So you are responsible for the €110,000 damage caused by the cancellation of the New Year's concert. So once again, he asks you: Will you take political responsibility in this case? I am increasingly concerned about how you coordinate activities in the field of public institutions in the field of culture. For example, you took the Opera Ballet €400,000 from the general costs, SNG Maribor, which had lost €157 000 last year, you told them to take the credit, and at the Slovenian Philharmonic, when the personnel plan was adopted, so on a plan where the Ministry of Culture confirmed the human resources plan, you took the €185,000 for the salaries of those who strike. What do you want to reduce the number of employees in the Slovenian Philharmonic in order to have an even bigger sentence so that you have an even easier excuse to replace the director or how? Say, Mr. Secretary-General: How do you plan to solve cultural problems in the field of institutions in the way you have dealt with them? And even if your employees are pleased with you and they want you to continue to serve as minister, that doesn't mean you're a good minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u200	Minister of Culture Mr Anton Peršak, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u201	Of course, I know that sometimes it is considered a skill and rhetorical bravorost to change facts or order of facts in order to make things work more effectively. What you just attributed to me, of course, it doesn't. It is true that for the first time I met representatives of the Slovenian Philharmonic employees last summer, and then they gave me a series of facts and I asked them to document these facts in such a form that they would be credible, it is said, in writing. Before they did that, they decided to strike. I suppose because they thought the situation was inconclusive. This has also been explained to the public and I would not like to repeat or comment here. But it is a change of order, Mr Logar, as I say. We did not take any €400,000 from ballet and operas, but we measured them according to a realistic assessment of the material costs, because in the years before, the Ljubljana Opera received a few more funds and used these funds to remedy past losses. When it came, say, to a state of zero, to a positive zero, which requires this past, we measured the funds realistically according to the assessment of material costs. The biggest surprise for me, however, is your claim that I advised SMG Maribor to take credit for the recovery of past losses because it does not correspond to the fact. For the first time, I have heard that they intend to take the loan and expect a guarantee from the Ministry of Culture, which, of course, cannot be given according to the rules in force. At a meeting about 10 days ago, when the director of SMG Maribor came to present the idea of a rehabilitation program before the public institute meeting, of course we had not even gotten him in our hands because it was already in force before the program, which he became with the public service council. Only now will we be able to give an opinion on this recovery programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u202	Dr. Ange Logar, would you like to make a proposal to hold a discussion at the next meeting on your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u203	Yes, thank you. Well, I think we should go across the street from the minister. He's running out of time for both answers. And given that it is a serious dilemma where this Minister leads our culture, particularly in the field of public institutions, given that he is obviously very late in solving the problems of institutions with financial problems, given that he has not answered the questions raised with regard to the Slovenian Philharmonic Public Institute, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this issue and that the Minister will have sufficient time to clarify his views on this issue in very detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u204	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. Dr Dragan Matić will ask the question of the delegation to the Minister for Culture, Mr Anton Persak. Dr. Matić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Last October, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduced a measure amending the Slovenian Film Centre Act to restore up to 25% of all eligible costs to foreign productions that will decide to shoot in the Republic of Slovenia. This is a welcome action that we have been waiting for a long time, and it now ranks us side by side with comparable countries in the European space. It has positive cultural economic effects. By attracting foreign capital, it provides more access to work, income, exchange of skills among film workers, and much can be gained by the tourism industry, as film teams and other film workers naturally use tourist facilities, catering services and so on and so on. It is worrying, however, that the rules on the promotion of investment in audiovisual production, which is a derivative of this law at the implementing level, have a provision which seems illogical. I quote: “In the case of international co-production of a project in which one of the co-producers is a legal or natural person registered for the management of film and television production in the Republic of Slovenia, the beneficiary of the Slovenian co-producer.” This seems illogical because if we are to increase foreign investment in the Slovenian economy, it should be prohibited for Slovenian producers to apply for this call and to designate only and only foreign producers who have representation in Slovenia or for production in Slovenia to hire a Slovenian executive co-producer. In the case of international co-production, Slovenian producer as a minority producer has the right to apply for a tender for minority co-productions, and therefore there is no need to compete with foreign producers at the request for monetary incentives. An even more pointless application in the event of a majority of Slovenian co-production is that the producer would be offered 25% of the money that he had previously received on a public invitation to tender for the realisation of his production. In practice, this may mean that the Slovenian producer receives from the country 105 % of the value of the project, since the only restriction is a general restriction on state aid of 80 % of the total value of the project. Here I would point out another point that if Slovenian minority co-production is financed by public funds, it will automatically be granted the right to use the free public service of the Viba film company, and in this case the meaning of this financial mechanism has been completely destroyed, since the Slovenian co-producer will receive the value of the technical services of Viba film on top instead of paying the foreign producer of Viba film services, as it is elsewhere in the world. It is obvious that with such a rule, the mechanism is going in the opposite direction from what is desired. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: What do you think would be the way in which the Regulation would be reshaped to write down in the fifth indent of Article 2, I quote: “In the case of international co-production where one of the co-producers is a legal or natural person registered for his activity in the Republic of Slovenia, the project is not entitled to a cash refund or a Slovenian producer is not entitled to an application.” I ask your opinion or your position on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u206	The answer is given by the Minister for Culture. Here you go, Mr. Pershak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u207	Thank you. Dear Mr Matić, we have reviewed this issue at the Ministry and we understand the concern expressed by your question. We will pay particular attention to this at the first evaluation of the rules. However, for the time being, we believe that there is no basis for this concern or risk of what appears to be possible if we read this Regulation or Article 5 of this Regulation in isolation, without taking into account certain other rules governing these matters. The first application, which is already for the use of these funds and the interest of other foreign producers with reasons, shows that such a risk could not have occurred. However, in interpreting this issue, it is necessary to take into account all relevant rules or legal acts for this measure concerning eligible applicants under this measure. The purpose of the measure is to allow the amount of State aid, the required accumulation of all public funds, the incentive effect of State aid and the explicit provision that the public agency should carry out a review of possible double funding costs. In the case of multilateral European co-productions a maximum amount of State aid is allowed, it is said, of all public funds, as already provided for by the founding act of the public agency, 60%. However, the accumulation of State aid amounts to a sum of all public funds, Slovenian and European, depending on the level allowed. The Regulation does not provide that Viba Film Ljubljana's film studio services are free of charge, but are payable and costs are among the eligible costs. The Slovenian Film Centre, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, is committed to checking the double application of costs for all public tenders or projects, including within the film itself. It is also very important to take into account the incentive effect of State aid, as provided for, and to decide on the right to State aid before the start of production or recording, that these relations are already known. Thus, an amount of 105 % of the country's total costs cannot be covered in any case. For, as it is said, the whole rule and all other accompanying rules in this area must be followed. The Regulation not only lays down the eligible costs, but also the criteria and conditions, the treatment procedure, the conclusion of the contract and the review procedure, and the approval or refusal of eligible costs, the conclusion of the contract and the subsequent payment. Article 17 of the Regulation thus provides that the Agency shall verify that any duplication of costs occurs in the event that the recipients of cash refunds are legal or natural persons co-financed by the Agency on the basis of other public calls or public calls; it is said that what has already been obtained must be taken into account. In the event that the Agency determines the suspicion of duplication of costs, it shall invite the beneficiaries to declare on the basis of which it decides whether payment is justified, at what amount, or to withdraw from the contract and not pay the cash refund. In this case, it is a provision that is even more stringent than the provisions in force since it refers to the whole of the tenders and prescribes a mandatory cost review in terms of the risk of duplication. Since this is the case for State aid, the cumulation rule applies. In any event, not only for projects financed under this measure, but also for other SFCs, the public agency of the Republic of Slovenia, may not and may not exceed the permitted level of all public funds, including foreign funds, in the case of international productions or even exceed the overall budget, as you specify. To this end, the SFC must acquire the pre-budget value of funding and resources at the time of application, which shall be further verified by the mandatory submission of the full calculation and documentation of all costs before the eligible costs are paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u208	Dr. Matić, you have the floor to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u209	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. Your answer is of a very principled nature. You are talking about other regulations limiting this fear that I have expressed in my question. You provide an article by which a possible duplication must be checked by the Slovenian Film Centre and then somehow in the process prove and then prevent. However, you did not answer my question why it is now necessary for the Slovenian Film Centre to carry out some procedures to identify possible duplications. As soon as you leave in with this article, quoted by the Slovenian co-producer, when you write, "in the case of international co-production of a project in which one of the co-producers is a legal or natural person registered for film and television production in the Republic of Slovenia, the beneficiary of the Slovenian co-producer" we already have a problem because this Slovenian co-producer can run for funds in a public tender that your Ministry is tendering and can also use Viba film or has those eligible costs in it. I do not understand why it is not possible to simplify everything together, to facilitate the work and procedure of the Slovenian Film Centre in order to simply record it as I have suggested that in the case of international co-production, in which one of the producers is a legal or natural person registered for their activities in the Republic of Slovenia, this Slovenian producer is not entitled to apply. In this way, we will achieve what is meant by the law, that these financial resources are earmarked not for the purpose of Slovenian producers of the bill and financial support, but to encourage foreign producers to come to our country and thus achieve the effect that the law aims to have, that is, the exchange of knowledge and experience with our film workers and the promotion of the tourist offer and everything else I have set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u210	I give the floor to the Minister for Culture, Mr Persak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u211	First of all, when the law was adopted, there was considerable pressure that Slovenian producers could run for these funds, whether they were co-productions or other projects. Why is it now written as it is? This is because when it comes to co-production, the Slovenian producer is not in the same position as the producer who makes the film in its entirety. The first case in this case is Viba film. As we know, the costs of using Viba film, recording techniques and so on are not accounted for when a Slovenian film is made in full by a Slovenian producer, but is considered part of this state aid in the case of Slovenian film. Where these types of co-production are concerned, including the proportion to which this State aid may be cut, in the case of these co-productions it is the lowest, that is 60%, while in minority co-productions it is 70% and in pure Slovenian films it is 80%. In fact, it is the handicapped position of the one found in such co-production. As we say, however, we will, of course, monitor precisely from this point of view. And if necessary, and if it turns out that this is really possible as an inappropriate advantage, which of course will prove to be very soon, we will evaluate it and also change it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u212	Mag. Marko Pogačnik will ask the minister of finance mags a question. Matei Vranictor Erman. Please, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u213	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister of Finance, I would like to ask you a question about the bad bank, the Company for Bank Claims Management. The fact is that the T-2 claim transferred to the Bank's Claims Management Company seems to me to be one of the largest items in the claim portfolio available to the Bank's Claims Management Company. I have already asked a number of questions myself, especially on the Committees on Finance and Monetary Policy, but I have never received a concrete answer from the DUMB leadership, so I am now addressing you as the Minister, who is covering this institution fairly. In May 2016, the Higher Court in Celje definitively decided that the claims transferred by the New Ljubljana Bank and the Bank of Celje were not secured. This represents about €120 million. I want to know: How or how will this decision of the Court affect the performance of the DUTB in 2016? On the other hand, in March of this year, the Constitutional Court definitively ruled that the bankruptcy imposed by the Court in Ljubljana in March 2016 and proposed by the DUTB was already three times unjustifiable. I want to know: How will this decision of the Constitutional Court regarding the ineligibleness of the bankruptcy procedure of T-2 affect the continued operation of the bad bank?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u214	I give my answer to the Minister of Finance. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Commissioner, for starters I must mention, however, the Act on Measures to Strengthen Bank Stability, which sets out in Article 4, the way in which the Ministry of Finance can exercise control over the functioning of the DUTB. And once again, I must point out that we cannot influence the specific business decision of the DUTB. Before this question was raised, however, the DUTB itself requested information on the specific case, in particular in connection with the Constitutional Court decision. We monitor the operation of the DUTB as a whole, through indicators, but these indicators contained in the DUTB guidelines do not refer to the individual transaction or to the individual claim managed by the DUTB, but are set at the annual level. I would also like to point out that the deadline for the submission of the 2016 annual report to the Ministry of Finance has not yet expired, so that I expect the annual report shortly. But for now, as I said, I haven't received it yet. However, the following needs to be said about this specific claim. The DUTB took over these claims in the context of the risk transfer measure in 2013 and 2014, respectively, after a legally binding settlement had already been confirmed. During the management of this claim, DUTB assessed, during the option, that it was awaiting payment of the claim by 2021 and that the company could by then generate sufficient funds to pay the liability, or that it could, in accordance with the law, take measures to ensure that the taxpayers’ assets could be reimbursed to the maximum extent possible. This resulted in further decisions by the DUTB and proposals which were forwarded. However, the specific decisions of the Higher Court or the Constitutional Court will not have a significant impact on the very outcome of the business in 2016 or on the capital structure, given that the DUTB has already taken into account in its internal valuations the book value of the claim to the company concerned so far such an option that the bankruptcy or divestment of the company takes place or that a legally enforceable settlement remains in force and that further restructuring of the company is carried out accordingly. In short, I estimate from the information obtained that the DUTB acted within its legal powers, but that both decisions will not have a direct immediate negative impact on the DUTB, but in particular the decision of the Constitutional Court may be reduced by the postponement of payment of the claim to DUTB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u216	Mag. You have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u217	Yes, Your Honor, thank you, but I think that your answer is quite vague. I'll ask you one more time. In 2016, the Celje Supreme Court decided that the claims available to DUTBs transferred by NLB and the Celje Bank were not secured at EUR 120 million. How will this affect the outcome of the business or how it affected the outcome of the business 2016? Yeah, well, I'm pretty sure you know this stuff so much, too, that I don't know if you're judging if you have 120 million claims secured that you have them booked, on the other hand, than if you don't have 120 million books. And it has also been raised in the past many times why the DUTB did not decide to return these claims after the transfer, which allows the Bad Bank Act and the Regulation, since it has repeatedly been pointed out that these claims are not secured, but now it has also been affected by the Court's decision. I want to know how this will affect the outcome of the business. They had 120 insured before, and now 120 million are not insured. We're not talking about one million, we're talking about 120 million. The DUTB is also not such a large system that 120 million would not have an impact. I wonder how this will turn out for 2016, and I did not ask you for the annual report, but for the results, probably for the results partly given that the month is already May, but almost probably for 2016 you should be informed as a department minister. And the decision of the Constitutional Court how it will affect the continuation of the DUMB.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u218	Minister of Finance Mag. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u219	Once again, with regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court, as I said, the direct impact, the immediate immediate impact on the business of the DUTB will not have on it, and it may have an impact on the level of the payment that we can expect. The DUTB assessment already in 2014 was that the bankruptcy procedure could achieve a higher payment of the claim to the company concerned than to wait until the expiry of this period following the compulsory settlement, by 2021. In this assessment, the DUTB continues to persist today, or even on the basis of the last report. Secondly, as regards the Supreme Court’s decision on the insurance or non-insurance of the claim or the impact on the results, I must say that, even in this case, the report prepared by the DUTB shows that there will be no special impact, given how the cases are recorded in their bookkeeping and how they show it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u220	Mrs Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. The spring Györkös Žnidar, which today is excused absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u221	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman. And I'm asking the Minister the following questions. We know that as a result of the refugee crisis, hatred spreads throughout Slovenia on a racial, ethnic and religious basis. The Western politicians and military commanders who in fact caused this refugee crisis are far from the public eye, so it is not difficult for the media and right-wing organisations to divert the anger of these poor people from the culprits of the situation to the victims of this same policy, as refugees. This is even easier because Cerara’s government’s official policy also supports this, and instead of criticizing its quasi - allies in NATO, Cerara’s government has fenced the country with a barbed wire – as we know, there are also suspicious businesses and non-transparent matters in the rear – and sent military patrols to the border. In short, we in the United Left strongly reject such policies, but we would like to point out that in such circumstances it is very dangerous to overlook some other forms of intolerance growing between us, and these are the phenomena of neofascism. I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior: How will the police respond to three specific cases of intolerance? The first such opportunity will be the meeting of supporters of the Constitution in Pliberk, Koroška, on 14 May. The vast majority of participants will travel by bus to this venue and will travel from Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course through Slovenian border crossings. I want to know: Will the police send passengers to Slovenia with the symbols of the institution, such as the flag shown in Maribor last year, as Youth documented in this photograph? My next question is: How will she act in the event of the Thompson concert, a well-known advocate of the Society, which will be held in Maribor on 20 May? Will the police ban the performance of this concert? It's a singer who apologizes for the U.S. crimes in Jasenovac, where we know there were a lot of children, women, and even seven priests killed. And thirdly, we experienced such an event on Thursday, when the 2014 Committee met before the Supreme Court, the police beat an older citizen before the police and, as we have seen here, the police could not stop it. That's why I want to know: How long will you allow meetings, given that the organiser cannot guarantee the safety of the passersby? I ask the Minister to answer me in writing and on the basis of these questions. I don't want a flossule on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u222	We'll address your request for a written answer to the Minister's request. Mr Ivan Škodnik will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Minister, head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister! Dear Minister Dejan Židan, I would like to stop today and talk to you as a lumberjack as a minister who represents this area where the forests belong. But I'll go very slowly. I know that this is crucial when it comes to the lack of refrigeration and so on, that these are state forests that are somewhere within 20% of the total mass and that even these forests or those logs are not all good for processing, that most of them are private forests. But it doesn't matter. When we set up a state-owned company in a year in order to at least try to change it with a state-owned company and somehow to elevate this wood at home, which has been going abroad recently or in recent years, most of all to Austria, and of course we have not converted it at home. I have a starting point from 30 years ago when we employed over 40 people in Slovenia, according to some data, up to 70,000 people, and today there are fewer than 10,000 employees in the wood industry, according to some data, even fewer than 8 thousand people. Of course, this number doesn't go up. I estimate that this is a particular feature of us and that we should somehow break off this export of wood, which, of course, in some part, it can. Dear Minister, you will understand me more easily, so I ask you to help us establish wood centers that will not only be of a logistical nature. In the first phase, I see at least five such centres in Slovenia and more later. In the centres, the refrigeration would be promised, sorted, stored, further production of semi-manufactured products, different panels and so on. These centres would be the basis for the development of the forest wood chain at home in Slovenia. This would therefore give the wood to the Slovenian sawdust producers. In this simple move I see the solution to stay wood and transform in Slovenia, but I ask you for an opinion as soon as possible of the proposed implementation. Of course, I thank you for your answer. I know that this is a question that is not easy, but one segment, but something here in your field can be added as a ministerial. Some things are changing, and I know that it didn't happen immediately in a year, but we have to look forward to seeing that our producers, our cockroaches get wood. We've got enough saws. We need to produce this wood in order to get new jobs. I estimate that 10 to 20 thousand jobs can be created soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u224	Minister Mag. Dean Jedhan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr Member, thank you for the question. It's generally as you said it yourself. In Slovenia, the state forest is only 20%. Even as the clock rises as the clock approaches its annual growth, this will allow about a million and a half cuts. That's the first fact. The second fact is that, at this point in Slovenia, the timber industry itself is growing. The demand of the wood industry for forest wood range is increasing, and right here we also have a lot of questions from your colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, why the state forests are not already supplying the existing Slovenian producers with a larger quantity of wood, even though everyone in the rear is aware that the limit is quantity, and that is 20% of Slovenian wood. Also, many Slovenians, as well as a foreign investor, are already asking and announcing investments in Slovenia. By opening new jobs in Slovenia and also by observing the state forest. Of course, we as a country can say the following. With the State Forest, some things have improved. First of all, we have a complete offer at the level of the whole country. Secondly, for this change of the rules that I have already discussed and I hope that they will be held accountable in May, so that they can then go to the Assembly and to the Government as soon as possible, we can provide long-term contracts, which has not been possible so far, under known conditions. When I say known conditions, at some average European market prices. As far as the question is concerned, whether to sell in forest wood logistics centers or not, we are being sold on a truck. According to available data, so the study that Siddg prepared himself would mean that if we were to be forced to establish as a forest forest centre country to sort and load it there, we would make an additional cost of about EUR 5 per cubic. For example, 5 Euros per cubic million means that we have given 5 million Euros for something that is not even mostly abroad because companies like SiDG are selling and we are like SiDGs, if we look at good practices abroad, they are selling on a truck. However, all of this does not mean that an additional effort is made after stopping the new wood, sawdust and other plants. SIDG can play an important role here. What is the most important role that I think needs to be discussed? First, attracting both domestic and foreign investors. Secondly, cooperation in creating conditions, in particular through long-term contracts and, if necessary, through temporary development of locations. And thirdly, what is being done, by investing additional financial resources, this must be broader financial resources, promoting the use of domestic wood in Slovenia as well. Is it possible to encourage the wood sector with all these measures? The general wood sector is currently growing. Secondly, the wood sector itself, and this is interesting, Mr Member, I have a lot of discussions both with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, with a competent section, as with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and they always very clearly through the media as well as in written documents, which I suppose is very clear to you: do not invest state money in those kinds of production where private capital can be obtained and is also available. So the very majority opinion is, make it even more accessible, fully align yourself with the sorting methods, with the ways they sell, by how they work in some foreign European countries, rather than going to those areas where there is no further progress in the foreign country, because then we can see it as a state-owned unfair competition. It is interesting that this is a major debate, which also took place during the preparation phase of the strategy for a longer five-year or ten-year period. I believe that it is possible in various ways to support the development of the wood industry, I very much want to be presented to us as soon as possible any draft development of the wood sector, for the economic part we have, this National Assembly has adopted a resolution on how it is developing, and I hope that we will move forward together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u226	Mr Ivan Škodnik, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u227	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'd just like to ask you a few more questions. I'm afraid of something. I'm afraid when there's been a lot of talk lately about multinationals, because the goal of such societies is to a large extent, much more so that they get to the mass of wood that's being collected somewhere, that might be partially distributed into some semi-manufactured and then, somehow, in some other form, is being driven out of the country. I'm afraid we're not going to get to the number of jobs that we would have if we were to develop wood industry in some regions. Because it is a specific – I think Slovenia is specific and has a lot of opportunities to develop a lot of products – we had to develop very difficult products with a lot of added value. That way we can get some new jobs. I'm saying, here I am afraid, and those centers that could be based on those locations where the remains of the old wood industry factories, we have quite a few, some even have peeling lines, and they're less operating, maybe they're not operating full, in short, we should find a solution here. I fully agree, Minister, with you, when you say that we will not spend state money on such things, that private capital should also be included and so on, I fully agree here. But something has to be done, we must not let go, because there is a danger that some multinationals will say, yes, there must be millions of saws to burn the wood, and they will drive all the shade across Slovenia to some area where they will partially burn it, process it and then export it. I'm here, frankly, as a lumberjack, and now I'm also speaking as a lumberjack, I don't see the development of the wood industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u228	Minister of the Jews, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u229	I understand that thinking. I am also aware that, like in forestry, as in other parts of the economy, the fastest development is at micro and medium level. Crafts and small businesses are growing much faster than large companies. However, what you have specifically asked in some way, Mr Member, as far as I am aware, is that you are the acting director of forestry and the secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, a very large European economic company, just to invest in the sawmill in Slovenia, visited. And I suggest you ask them, for what purpose and with what results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u230	Mr Daniel Krivec will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Free Mrs Irena Majcen a question. Here you go, Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u231	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister, to the ministers, to everyone else! We probably all agree that Triglav National Park as the only national park in Slovenia is important. And that's why it's so much more important how it's managed. Over the last period, we have a lot of comments and initiatives from this area that the law should be amended, that the law should be implemented as stated, that there are a lot of comments on the implementation of the present law as well. And here we come to the question whether this can also be caused by the fact that since 2016 and 2013 this public institution has been running the Director's. d., it is said that someone who has powers but does not work in the sense of some long-term plan and development of this area. Indeed, last July the Government appointed the Executive Director again, so it did not elect a Director for a permanent term, so this is a reopened matter. I have already addressed this question to the Minister last year, and that is when she replied that in order to successfully implement both the law and the management plan, it is necessary to ensure a stable and professionally managed institution and that the most important task of the new Director will be to organise implementation, monitoring the tasks of the management plan and so on. Now this is all in the sense that it is someone who is indeed the director with full powers, it is said, chosen for a longer term mandate to prepare a long-term implementation strategy, not that every year or every six months the perpetrator of the duty is appointed. I think that this is unacceptable for an institution as important as the Public Institute of Triglav National Park. That is why I ask the Minister again: Is it variable that the management of the Public Institute of Triglav National Park has been entrusted with the duties of the Director since 2013? What is he going to do in this direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u232	I give the floor to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u233	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Krivec, Commissioner, since the beginning of the term of office of the former Director of the Public Institute, Triglav National Park, as you have already said, in 2013, has been the first to appoint the Acting Director, who has carried out his work for a year and a half, then in October 2014, after I took office, we have already called for the appointment of a Director, but in the Council of the Public Institute, a candidate, unfortunately, has not been supported by the lack of knowledge of the work and content of the Institute and has been appointed as Acting Director. In the third call, which was in March 2016, in some way, this was already my decision, finding that none of the candidates had sufficiently demonstrated knowledge of the most important content that forms the core of work and decision-making in Triglav National Park, namely nature protection, promotion of the development of the Triglav National Park area and the proper direction of tourism, so that he was re-appointed as acting. The new invitation to tender was published in February of this year. Ten candidates applied for this call, applications were timely. The review found that two candidates did not meet the formal conditions and eight candidates. The expert services reviewed the accompanying development visions, evaluated them and interviews are taking place on the basis of this. Following the interviews, a proposal for the appointment of the Director will be sent. Despite such a situation with regard to the management of a public institution, I would hope to say that quite a few things have been carried out. A Regulation on the management plan of the Triglav National Park has been adopted and it seems important to me to say that a rehabilitation programme of the Triglav National Park has been prepared and implemented. This recovery programme shall cover those costs incurred in managing the park when the Director has been appointed. Therefore, this financial gap does not stem from the period of appointment of the holders of the duties, but from the Director. These funds were quite something for the Triglav National Park, and they stemmed from a number of projects aimed at obtaining European funds; unfortunately, the Triglav National Park failed to do so. The preparation of projects for funding from the European Funds is also being further elaborated, and calls are being made under pillar 6.2 of the 2014-2020 Operational Programme. However, it is certainly essential to ensure that the management of the Triglav National Park is managed in a stable and professional manner. The most important task of the work of the new Director will be to organise the implementation and monitoring of the tasks set out in the Management Plans and to monitor the implementation of the Law on the Triglav National Park. All of this requires the serious involvement of all ministries in the implementation of the Management Plan, i.e. ministries in the field of environment, nature, education, health, social, economy and infrastructure. In this regard, the hardest part is how to appoint a director who will be able to carry out all these tasks well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u234	Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have the floor to request an additional reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u235	Thank you for these answers, and also for these clarifications on the call for proposals to be made this year. We are back before you can choose the director, but, as I understand it, you are not before this fact. You're talking about things going on within the Triglav National Park, but responses from the field and from local communities are quite negative. There is a lot of pressure that the law is being amended because much of the law, particularly the law, is not being implemented. I think that the lack of one serious strategy by a high-quality director is an important failure in this public institution. You will probably agree with this, so it was also my question whether it was acceptable for you to manage the perpetrator of duties with such an important institution within our country from 2013 until now. I think that in normal practice, he is a duty-holder for one year, perhaps with some extension, but later he is normally elected as director. You're saying that in all the elections so far, there was no suitable man to occupy this city. This actually surprises me, given that the Triglav National Park has been established for a long time and that probably quite a few of the staff have also been trained in the direction that they know all of this within this decision. I am really surprised that your opinion that an official of duty was appropriate and capable and that there is also a solution to all these tasks being managed. You mentioned a management plan. This is just a matter of marriage prescribed by the law. This is not any added value that someone has prepared; but it was an obligation. That's why I'm once again interested in: How are you going to do that? Will the Director now be appointed in this election, or will he be acting again?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u236	Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u237	Dear Member, Mr. Krivec! I believe that when we look at what others are doing, we can evaluate that work by our beliefs. But the preparation of the management plan of the Triglav National Park was not prepared by the director, it was not prepared by the park itself; this work was carried out by quite a few people at the Ministry and in a certain part I myself attended a number of coordination. To say that the Triglav National Park Management Plan was something to be done; yes, it had to be done 20 years ago. But it has not been done until this time; so that I say to you that I do not agree with you. But I can assure you that the change of law will not be prepared by the Director. However, I agree, but the Director will certainly need to coordinate the many wishes and wishes of the mayors. We recently had a meeting with the mayors, with all the mayors of Triglav National Park, everyone was invited, two mayors came. Of course, it is different when it comes to stating interests. Some mayors or their professional services have strong interests, even strong enough to join in such conversations. It's acceptable for us. But some mayors don't even have those interests. It is true, however, that we have agreed on a more comprehensive amendment to the Triglav National Park Act and that in some ways it has also been adopted by representatives of local communities. We begin in the autumn because I am convinced that there are so many interests that his minister will also have to cut down in search of these interests and will not be able to leave any desire to negotiate or not to negotiate professional services and local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u238	Mr. Daniel Krivec, would you like to propose that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u239	Yes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to have a discussion on the Minister's response, since the latest replies indicate that, in fact, the Ministry is managing the public office more than the public office. All the activities carried out were guided, apparently, by the Ministry and its services. That's how it was supposed to be. The management plan was also coordinated by the Minister, and something similar was heard from her statements. The management plan is not a requirement which would have been 20 years ago, but a requirement introduced by the law which was amended in 2010. At that time, the last amendment to the Triglav National Park Act was adopted in Pahor's Government and since then this management plan has also been one of the important documents that must definitely be adopted. And if the Ministry is now carrying out tasks for a public institution in its entirety, as was understood from the Minister's debate, it is all the more important that we come once again to appoint one of the important directors in a public institution that is responsible for all developments within the Triglav National Park. And perhaps a poor response from local communities is due to the fact that the public institute of Triglav National Park is not a figure in this space, does not perform its work and is not a pro-active actor, for which also the law was adopted at the time and in that law also a part which speaks of the Triglav National Park as a public institution aimed not only at controlling and restricting this within the park; but also some developmental component and it has been built into it. And if local communities don't see it, they probably don't attend these meetings, and they expect to be called by the ministry and by those involved. That is why it is all the more important that we get to the appointment of a responsible director in this public office sooner rather than later, which will lead to the policy and implementation of this law as set out in the individual articles; and that this will not be done by the Ministry. Otherwise, let's shut down the public office and let the Ministry manage it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u240	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mrs Iva Dimic will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition a question. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Lately, a number of concerned and angry vegetable growers have turned to me and to the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors, who have pointed out the problem of restoring part of vegetable subsidies for 2016. The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, in its 2016 decision-making process for the production of coupled support for vegetables, has in several cases abolished the legal decisions and replaced them without the renewal of the procedure under the provisions of the ZUP by new decisions reducing payments for the production of linked support for vegetables, stating that too much support for vegetables should be paid by means of an automatic information system due to the irregularly identified factual situation. Of course, if I may say so, such as the association of vegetable growers, vegetables, integrated crops, I can also mention representatives, Mr Bučar, Majerič, and we Members of New Slovenia have been alerting for many years the necessity of preparing a coder to prevent such events; we do not have it yet. Because someone does not do his job, it will obviously be lost this year and vegetable growers will have to pay back subsidies next year. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: Who is responsible that the coder for herbivores is still not ready? How can the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development change decisions after one year and thus interfere with the acquired rights of producers with decisions already issued? How and until will you correct this injustice to vegetable growers? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u242	Mag. Dean Jedhan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member, I am always looking forward to your questions and thank you for them. It's really like this. The decisions are not one year old, the decisions are from January. Why January? Because of the difficult situation, due to the cold last year – unfortunately this year again, although it was then said to be a centuries-old phenomenon – this year an important part of direct payments were paid already in January. However, the European direct payments are such that in fact the subsidy campaign that they are now is actually being paid in the following year. This year we paid a good month or a few months before the deadline for payment. All those who submitted applications for production tying received in March a personal apology from the Director of the Agency for Agricultural Markets explaining why there had been a mistake. If you don't mind, Madam Members, I'll explain. It's not about code. It's about something else. In Slovenia, we support the production of vegetables about six times as much as we did in the last seven years – a certain amount of money, that is EUR 2 million, and this is divided by the quantity of hectares. And here was a mistake, as the director described. Approximately 150 hectares were not covered. This mistake has been made. In fact, this additional payment has been made because all the remaining payments are as they must have been reduced from a thousand 300 to a thousand 100 and something. But I must say, this is a payment that has not been paid in the past period. And it's also a payment that's only temporary until production increases to a certain extent, when more bond production is not justified. But I would also like to apologize on behalf of the state to everyone, and I would also like to say that where possible, this is a bad half of the cases, it goes to compensation. When the following payments are made, whether they are organic, or animal welfare, or payments related to environmental measures, that amount shall be compensated there. In general, about six times as much payments as in the old period are per hectare. As for the crypt, Mrs Dimic, we have a code from 2015 onwards exposed; a coded garden. But this cipher is like that, we have a general code called 402. This general code then allows or requires the addition of that type of vegetable that is the main one that is present for the first part of the season. But the other two roses don't fit in. It was a deal with the farm. Imagine that the farmer is forced to sign in, which vegetables he will have as others and as third, on what surface; and that we both know that in the third garden he often adapts to the market, and especially to the quantity. If you would write that down for me, imagine what the administration would be like in the background, what kind of control and how many errors would be detected. This was an agreement with farmers' organisations, with all the farmers' organisations. And even as we speak to them now, they insist on this arrangement. It's not a problem in the country to make the system more complicated, but then we'd go into a system that's not elsewhere to make the connection. However, if it is a question of whether this would allow for greater traceability, I suppose it was a question. We also at this point are essentially checking the traceability of food step forward and step back, through documents, because physical presence is not possible, we don't have so many inspectors. But I must tell you the good news, and this good news is that I think we are among the leaders who are developing some isotope methods. By the end of this year, we are expected to have the first accredited methods in Slovenia that will allow us to take the apple that you are selling, and the land from your farm and tell us whether the apple is real from your farm or not. Somewhere in three years, we expect to end the mapping of Slovenia. Mapping Slovenia will allow us to determine whether it is from Slovenia or from elsewhere when we take a specific food product. This will be the stage that will be a major step ahead of this material evidence that is proven through documents. Once again, there are not enough inspectors physically to be present on all farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u244	Mrs Iva Dimic, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! The fact is that farms or producers have to pay their money back for 2016 when they have been given legislative decisions. Here. In view of the fact that they received legal decisions from the data transmitted by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development by the end of May. Every year it's campaigning when they have to report things by the end of May. And so I'm wondering, after May, there was some more cold that someone couldn't. [[...]] I have also heard that 200 hectares are being talked about, which have subsequently come into this campaign, and that the farmers have been harmed and simply have to pay back the money. You said that it was agreed with the farmer that for the second and third vegetables it was not necessary to be encrypted; but according to the information I obtained in those days, they wanted this because they say that everyone would then be paid actually after what someone came up with. And even for us as consumers, traceability would be much better and easier. I didn't get information from all these associations that they didn't want anything to suit them; they even want it. However, the problem is that these decisions have been issued under section 42 of the Agriculture Act, which will be dealt with appropriately next week; if necessary, they will also be amended. Article 42 of the Agriculture Act shows that the principle of trust in law and the principle of legal certainty, which is among the principles of the rule of law in relation to Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, has been gravely violated. The principle of trust in law assures us, as parties to administrative procedures, that the State or its authorities must not arbitrarily alter or make worse the legal situation established by law, which has happened in their case.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u246	I'm giving mag a word to complete the answer. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u247	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully accept your proposal to introduce additional administration, but this is quite the opposite of what you have been telling me on the Committee on Agriculture. As Minister, I do not really have a problem if you ask and then vote to introduce a thousand more rubles; but we already have a problem that one of the biggest problems of agricultural policy is too much administration. There's always a reason, every organ finds a reason why there's still a thousand things to write down. And we're even more complicated than our competitors. But there's something I have to say. The country or our agency for agricultural markets is expected to issue a decision very close to the payment of the money. We don't issue decisions on stock. We make decisions then, sometimes even the next day the money comes, but always very quickly. And also this year, the decisions, the first decisions, were not all because they were paid in January and then in February, a small remainder in March, where checks were issued. And if we were to follow the European legal order, which says that we have to pay up to 30 at the latest. 6.; then there would be no problem at all, since it was found that the calculation error was in March. But we, and that's the only right thing, wanted to get the money to farmers as soon as possible. But once again, there will be no misunderstanding. We are in Slovenia to accelerate the production of vegetables, in addition to all other measures. The farm gets all the other measures paid, we have decided what was agreed on by the Agriculture and Rural Council to further support farms within two million in order to increase production. And that's why we share 2 million with the number of hectares. But it was true that there was a computer bill, which I think the agency would be able to explain very well, and she could explain to me why it happened, and then they apologized. But if they didn't do this to me, what would be the opposite? In any case, we should pay for it because it is European money. But if we don't do it now, we should pay in time, maybe with some punishment, and also recover. In general, I'm sorry, and I do apologize to each of our farmers. Here I would just like to say that where compensation can be made, compensation has been made that the vast majority of the amounts are below EUR 500. Where there are 500 euros, each farm also has the possibility of paying back to the budget in three instalments, but nevertheless, as a country from European money, we pay the production bond an additional thousand 187 euros per hectare. This measure has not been implemented before and most European countries have not implemented this measure; we are implementing it in order to raise this low rate, which is slightly below 40% of the self-sustainment of vegetables, at least slightly. Success is due to a significant increase in the quantity of hectares within one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u248	Mrs Iva Dimic, would you like to propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this subject? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The minister and I had too little time to share with each other the concerns surrounding us and, of course, all the angry and hurt vegetable growers. No one can ensure that the same story will not happen again next year, because this year we are also at a time when we find the cold. A very similar story can be made next year, reaching out to all these vegetable growers. In order to plan for the future, to provide more self-sustainment on vegetables, we are also among the lowest in the European Union, in Slovenia very low, I propose that we also hold a public debate in this National Assembly on the basis of this and to see how it will be in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u250	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will ask a question from the Secretary-General of the Government. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The Zaza report.si website reported on a visit by the President of the Government to Paris on 28 January 2017. All the data indicated that it was pure abuse. Let me remind the public of two figures. For the first time, when the then President of the Government, Janez Janša, made a regular trip to Greece at his own expense, his child became ill there, so he rented a private plane, paid it out of his pocket and returned to Slovenia. All the dominant media were full of headlines about how Janez Janša did not pay enough because he should pay much more. He paid 9,000 euros, and according to these media he should pay more. However, Mr Miro Cerar, with his chosen delegation on 28 January this year, at the expense of taxpayers – in my opinion, the secretary-general, as much material as you see before me, I collected – traveled to Paris by abuse of the official position. Maybe it's you. Maybe it's someone else in the office. This will be shown by a likely investigation. He traveled to Paris in a way that does not have a basis in Slovenian legislation. Each trip by the President of the Government or the Minister – two ministers who are here – well know – requires a decision by the Government, which defines the passengers in which the purpose of the journey is defined and what will happen on the destination, that is to say, for what purpose the government delegation is going to do. It is therefore necessary to reach a decision of the Government under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act; and nothing else. Every other journey abroad is an abuse of position. Good. The finance minister's here. In response to the February parliamentary questions, you replied to me that he had travelled there following a government decision of 25. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There is no such decision by the Government, I suppose you have made a mistake; but it is the decision of the Government of 28. Seven. 2016; but this is not the decision of the Government that it must travel. 28. Seven. 2016 you could not know that the handball game in Paris will be a year later. And secondly, you told me that he traveled there to the invitation of the Handball Association of Slovenia. She didn't invite that either, not in your office, not in the Department of Defense. The composition of the delegation, which consists of the Piarovs themselves, the Minister of Education and, of course, him, is to conclude that this is an abuse of the situation. Madam Secretary of State, I ask for the documents on which he has travelled.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u252	I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Government. Lilliani Kozlovich for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u253	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the hour. We have answered your question several times orally and in writing in the National Assembly. You're saying we're avoiding the answer, but let me deny it. It's not about avoiding the answer. You're actually 16 years old. 3. In a written reply, all the circumstances concerning the flight of the President of the Government to Paris were clarified. This is also the answer to your oral question. This document, which you have received, specifies exactly how much the flight time of the falcon government aircraft costs, which rules determine the intended use of the aircraft, what situations and under which conditions a person may fly an aircraft. With regard to the specific use of aircraft 28. 1. In 2017, however, answers were given as to who were the passengers on the plane from which the plane took off, where the airport landed, with what means of transport passengers traveled from the landing site to the Bercy Hall and back to the cost of flight, including the crew's salaries, who paid them and so on. All the information has been provided to you. In the framework of the request for access to information of a public nature, you were 16. 3. and also 5. 4. 2017 additional clarifications sent and also all documentation in this regard. You were also 20. 4. responsible for the prudence of use or for the decision of the Government. As far as the legal basis is concerned, you have already been explained. There is a Regulation on cooperation, information and coordination in the field of external matters and international relations governing cooperation, information and coordination in all cases where such activities are concerned. And this regulation stipulates that the ministries and government services planning the meeting are obliged to submit proposals for outcomes for meetings to confirm the Government. The starting points include the Government's views on the content of the discussions at meetings of government representatives. And in this particular case, it was not a meeting of this kind. Therefore, according to our assessment, the starting point was neither necessary nor necessary. Repeat, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Dr Cerar is 28. 1. 2017 participated in handball games in Paris at the oral invitation of the Slovenian Handball Association in the role of Prime Minister of the Government. However, in the light of the expected success of Slovenian team sport in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, he responded to the invitation. It is usually the case that statesmen, such as representatives of countries and governments and district ministers, attend important championships, team matches and sports events in support of their representatives. And handball competition of the handball team of Slovenia 28. 1. 2017 in Paris against the Croatian national team was one of the key in the history of Slovenian team sports. That is why the President of the Government and the Minister responsible for sport each with their own delegation, and also actively encouraged our athletes. In this case, the legal basis arises from Article 7 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that the State is represented by the Government. In this case, it was the European Championship at which our country played. However, since it was such an important event which identified the whole country, we believe that it is entirely justified and justified that the State, on its behalf and on its behalf, and certain officials representing the State, on the ground supported the Slovenian handball team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u254	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary-General, you are looking at me with concern and you are justly looking at me with concern. In 2010, in this National Assembly, I began to gloat if I so called it, with the Attorney General who abused the situation. In 2016, he was indicted by the police; not by me. Let's go in one order. I don't mind visiting the Prime Minister if he goes to greet the handball players. But look at the difference between Borut Pahor and Mir Cerar. When Borut Pahor went to support them, he cleaned up their shoes; but Mr Miro Cerar went to the state expenses, drove to the public expenses, went to the tribunal and waved, a photojournalist paid by the state, took pictures of him. He didn't shake the hand of a handball player or a handball player. Madam Secretary-General, any departure abroad requires documents, a decision of the Government pursuant to Article 21 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I have before me the Government's decision on the journey of Mr Jew, who went to Brussels, concerning the terrain; however, you have a decision of the Government. I have a government decision before me when Mr. Cerar went to Malta. Where is the decision of the Government in accordance with Article 21 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a trip to Brussels? He's not here. The journey is at the same time contrary to the transport instructions you have concluded yourself. The instructions in Article 5 specify when the aircraft should be ordered, how it should be ordered and when it can leave. There is no document. And the plane was ordered less than 24 hours before the event, which further indicates abuse. Madam Secretary-General, I'm just going to ask you a few questions. I'm giving you 30 days to collect money and pay for the plane. When the Minister of Justice informs me that the matter is paid out of private pockets, I will give up; but not before.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u256	I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Government. Lilliani Kozlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u257	Thank you. I don't know the 2010 case and I can't compare it to this case. I think he's irrelevant to that question. Concerned, however, is probably what you are assessing because you are probably again demanding the things that we have already given you. We can't give you more than that. As for the President of the Republic, how he decides and travels, this is his decision. The fact is that we have a decision by the Government that requires that Falcon be used to achieve its purpose and that as many years as possible, that its value should also be justified. We know how much trouble we've had with Falcone since our purchase in 2002. In addition to protocol purposes, it shall also be used for other purposes. The fact is that the fixed costs of this falcon are always the same; and their share declines with the frequency of use of the aircraft, so the government is striving to make the best possible use of it. More than years, it'll cost you less. And again, the Prime Minister of the Government was not in office as President, he was not on a private visit to Paris. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u258	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, would you like to propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this subject? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u259	Thank you. I want the National Assembly to hold a debate on this subject. Madam Secretary-General, you do not have the relevant documents, you do not have a decision by the Government and the case was brought in contravention of Article 21 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So once again, collect the money from the participants, pay the flight and we're done. And publicly inform the public, because otherwise I have to do what every citizen has to do – report the suspicion of a crime service. And don't think that I'm not going to get this kind of support within the parliamentary group. Because what you're telling me, I need to tell the public why I also want a debate in the National Assembly on this subject. I ask for information of a public nature and the 29th day answer me that it is a flawed request; you did not tell me whether you want to have photocopies or want to have electronic documents. You know this is a joke. And don't give me the documents I want. Of course, don't attach them because you don't have them. And secondly, you don't even charge flight costs for the journey to the Council of Europe; a finance minister to let you know. Every flight to the Council of Europe is paid on their part, only the refund must be paid. However, since the cabinet of the Prime Minister does not require this refund, the state of Slovenia receives nothing. He doesn't get anything. And the next thing. You're telling me that as many planes as possible, it's more reasonable. Don't paint me! I agree that the plane will fly when it really has to. For example, in 2007, Mr Bajuk had three events in two days in three cities. He rented a plane, and he was shaking about what the public would say he had rented a plane; he actually had to hire it. But you're fucking around, and you're saying that you've given the army 200 thousand euros to get the plane to fly as fast as you can, and there's no need for a refund. That's the last answer you sent me. You're wasting your money, and we need to talk about this in the National Assembly. And I expect us to speak, coalition, there on the other side. Otherwise, as a citizen, I am obliged to act and I am disgusted that this is how you spend your taxpayer's money. One summer costs 4 000 euros, and the other summer costs 12,000 euros, and they are both in Brussels and back. That's the kind of records you have. All of this needs to be discussed. And one more time to conclude, third time. Collect the money from the participants, let them pay, apologize to the public, and we're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u260	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, in the framework of the votes. We continue with Mr Uroš Pikl's question, addressed to the Minister of Finance, mags. Matthew the Vranic Erman. Mr. Prikl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u261	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister! We're gonna go straight from the air to the hard fiscal floor, if I may have a little fun at first. Slovenia has been participating in a negotiating group at European Union level for years and has been among those Member States that have so far been relatively favoured with the idea of introducing a financial transaction tax. However, the consent to adopt such a tax must, as we know, contribute at least nine members. However, the latest differences are, if my behaviour is correct, on the setting of exceptions, so there should be quite a few compromise solutions; of course, none is yet final. There is therefore no concrete agreement yet, so Member States are working, or I hope, to continue these negotiation procedures. In this light, Madam Secretary, I ask you this: Where is this procedure or where are these activities? How active is Slovenia in all of this and with what negotiating mandate will you continue such negotiations if you continue? What should be the basis or tax rate? What exceptions do we support with regard to these potential taxes to be applied to financial transactions? Will pension funds be excluded in here? I know that it is not particularly necessary to explain why Mr Desus is particularly interested in this. What will be the financial gain? How much income will we receive from this title at the annual level? How much will this matter cost us, or what will be the cost of applying the potential tax on these transactions? How will this possibly affect the economy? And the key question: If we go to the end and reach a compromise solution, some consensus in this area, do you expect that the possible negative effects on the financial sector and competitiveness would result in capital leakage abroad and cost-sharing at higher financial service prices at the final stage for final consumers? Would the imposition of such a tax mean the elimination or elimination of tax havens and thus the regulation of the burning situation in this area? This was discussed at many meetings of the Committee on Finance, the Commission on Public Finance Control and also the plenary sessions of the National Assembly, and we are also facing citizens and citizens of this country. I thank you for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u262	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vranick Erman. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr Member, the Slovenian delegation has so far been very active in participating at all working group meetings, both at the level of officials and also at the level of ministers, in coordinating the compromise proposal for enhanced cooperation in the field of taxation of financial transactions. We have been working in the framework of the negotiating platform, which was awarded to us by the National Assembly in 2012, and since then we have not changed it; however, we have written in the negotiating table that we are joining in the parliamentary reservation. So far, we have come to a point at ministerial level where, according to my assessment, a new position has to be taken by the National Assembly. This is just before we reach a consensus on all the essential elements of the future financial transaction tax system, followed by the drafting of a draft or proposal for a text of the directive. So we're still very far from the final goal. However, given the possibility of compromise on key solutions, it seems to me that, in line with the 2012 position of the National Assembly, it is essential that the results of the talks so far be presented in more detail to the competent committee of the National Assembly. Since discussions on the possible introduction of this tax are envisaged to continue at the edge of the May ECOFIN, we are also preparing material to request the National Assembly for a new position in preparation for ECOFIN or at the same time; this means that you can expect the material to be submitted to the National Assembly sometime in the first half of May. Now for concrete solutions. The initial starting point of the directive, as well as the position of the National Assembly, demanded that we seek solutions that would constitute a broad tax base and a low rate. The broad tax base constitutes as few exceptions as possible. The low tax rate was set on the one hand for ordinary financial instruments and on the other hand for derivatives. When we talk about taxation of financial transactions, we are not talking about taxation of financial services, but we are talking about taxation of transactions in shares, other securities and derivatives. The capital market or market of these financial instruments in Slovenia is relatively less developed than in other countries. As a result, we did not expect significant public financial revenues under this heading at the time of this basic establishment. The revised assessment based on the 2013 starting point and then corrected to reflect the changed situation shows that the annual financial impact could be around 12 million and that the cost of introducing the tax would be a single cost between one and a half million and two million; then, each year, around half a million funds should be provided for the ongoing implementation of the control activities. By seeking compromise, the scope of taxation has also grown stronger. All of these versions will be made clear to the National Assembly in writing, but for the time being, discussions are going in the direction of exempting state bonds from taxation, then shares with companies, non-financial companies. In the last step, there was also much debate about the financial instruments traded by pension funds. That would be very nice. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Uroš Prikl, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u265	Yes, very briefly. First of all, thank you very much for the comprehensive explanations. I must say that I agree with everything you have said or support these guidelines that you plan to continue. I would be very happy if Slovenia were a country, or if you, who will represent Slovenia on ECOFIN, were one of the main protagonists. All too often, I have the feeling that, in recent times, there has been a speech at the level of the entire European Union, to which, you know, we are in Desus, and personally, very critical of how we are getting away from money, how some tax havens are also in the heart of the European Union; and we are doing relatively little for it. When a compromise is to be made between Member States, of course, there is no courage, there is no such thing as to take a step forward. I absolutely support a relatively broad tax base and a low tax rate. If I'm merely theoretical, I can see that in this way we'll raise relatively the most money and that the matter will be fair. I'd like as few exceptions as possible here. But at this point I have to say, I may also think in the spirit of the emerging, under the headings it would be said by itself that it is not, the demographic fund in the Republic of Slovenia, that certain transactions or certain transactions linked to the pension fund, and specifically that mentioned, would be exempted here. When you mention financial effects, I believe this is not a final assessment. I think that one million to 2 million will be relatively quickly forgotten at least 12 times the revenue. On the subject of ongoing maintenance, however, we will be able to absorb matters. I continue to be courageous and believe that the European Union will come to consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Vranick Erman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Allow me to complete my answer with things I haven't been able to say in the first part. The first part, the introduction of a tax may mean the relocation of certain securities transactions outside the Republic of Slovenia. Everything depends on how specific solutions will be developed, but it is estimated that the introduction of this tax would have a fair impact on the extent of trade in securities in Slovenia; whereas the introduction of this tax has no special effect on the elimination of tax havens or on any other issue in this regard. But I'd like to explain this further. These discussions do not take place within the framework of ECOFIN, but at the edge of ECOFIN meetings. The matter has not yet matured to be formally concluded at ECOFIN meetings, but these meetings are always interlinked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Irene Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! My question will concern the right to drinking water. On 17 November 2016, at its 24th regular session, the National Assembly adopted a proposal to amend the Constitution, which enshrined the right to drinking water in the Constitution. We Social Democrats co-signed this proposal and actively participated in all stages, first in the appointment of a member of the Committee of Experts before the Constitutional Commission, and then in our work in the Group of Members. We have also been aware that the entry of this right into the Constitution means only the first step towards the realization of this very important natural good for life and work for all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. Another important step is on your part, on the part of the government or the department ministry, to prepare proposals as soon as possible for those laws that will ensure that this record of the right to water and also the right to exploitation of natural resources, in this case of water, is adequately addressed at the legal level. The third is once again our move, on our side by Members and Members, to monitor the proper preparation of these laws. And I believe, if possible, I also hope that this will happen in this mandate. However, since we have set an 18-month deadline for the harmonisation of legislation with the Constitution and it has been some five months since the adoption of the Constitution, I ask you, Minister, here: Have the competent services at your Ministry already approached the drafting of legislative proposals with solutions that will follow Article 70a of the Constitution? But if you are, I want to know: In what way is this legislation in what stage of preparation, and who is involved? Thank you so much for the first part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u271	Dear Vice-President, honourable Member of the Mag. Bojana Mursich! At the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are already pursuing an important objective in the field of water supply and management, ensuring adequate and smooth supply of quality drinking water for our residents and residents. Consistency of sectoral legislation with article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is a task beyond the powers of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Our ministry is only one of the stakeholders in this task of establishing a system in the spirit of a constitutional provision. What remains to be done is already shared opinion in the professional public as well as in individual departments, and the Government is therefore setting up a working group to coordinate changes to those system laws and to the sub-legislative acts necessary to implement the provision enshrined in the Constitution. These include the provision of drinking water to the public, the insurance and management of water resources, the non-profitability of carrying out the service with the purpose of using financial resources and the direct execution of this service. This is therefore the area of competence in which the tasks of the state administration, local communities, the financing of municipalities, the provision of economic public services and the protection of the environment are intertwined. Due to the complexity of the issue, the group will be led by the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at least at this stage. It should be borne in mind, however, that this is a very complex area where high alertness is needed. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has a great deal of responsibility to approach this issue, while it is clear that the regulation of the issue of the provision of drinking water in Slovenia is already at a very high level in the field of supply and also in the field of ensuring adequate quality of drinking water for the inhabitants of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Minister, for the first part of the answer. Once again, five months have passed, we were aware that this particular entry into the Constitution for a complex area is taking place and that legislation must be acceded to at the time of preparation for these constitutional changes. In this place, I do not want to be misunderstood that I want to bring the laws under the roof at all costs, but I want all stakeholders to have enough time and to be professionally involved in the drafting of legislation. That is why I welcome here this group, which will be led by the Secretary-General. And I want to know: What is the procedure to propose a member to this committee? I would also like to point out that the Second Slovenian Water Congress was held in Podčetrtek last week, where you were also a festive speaker or opened it if I have the right information. That is why I would expect this place to be clear about the stage in which these things are. For it is only a appointment; I would have expected that we would have already appointed this expert commission, that the procedures would have begun, because time is running infinitely. As we know, the mere entry of this right to drinking water into the Constitution will not ensure the protection of water resources or drinking water against those who want to earn high profits at the expense of natural resources; despite mentioning that we have good legislation. We know that in practice it also happens that profits are forged. For the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular of citizens and citizens, this must be one of the priorities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and also of the Government in order to regulate all necessary legislation in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irene Maycen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u275	I would like to say that the Water Act already regulates the use of water resources for drinking water supply and commercial purposes. This means that whenever there is a shortage of water in these sources, commercial resources close down and all water is used to supply drinking water. In fact, Slovenia is a rich country with water resources, and it is certainly necessary to focus on clean water resources or water surfaces, so the adoption of the Water Management Plan and monitoring of water conditions for Slovenia is still important. We are currently in the final stage of adopting a plan to reduce flood safety, and we still have to adopt the Marine Environment Management Plan in the second half of the year; so I hope to say that we are aware of the important tasks that we have to carry out in order to implement the provision enshrined in the Constitution, i.e. Article 70a. It is true, however, that when looking for a way to implement this provision, even when talking to different actors in this provision, they are not the same paths. Checking these things has taken some time, I agree; therefore, I do not see any other option than for the Interdepartmental Working Group to definitively determine which routes are most needed. Our Ministry is also preparing a law on public economic services, which means that any regulation will be able to enter into this law; and if there is readiness in Parliament, of course, it will be even better. However, I am sure that we will also present the proposals for all these rules in the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mrs Ludmila Novak will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u277	Dear Madam Secretary, hello! I sent you a very short question: Is it true that you will accompany Topolšica Hospital to Celje General Hospital? As we know, most Slovenian hospitals are in financial troubles, including Hospital Topolšica; liquidity problems are also faced by the General Hospital Celje, which is not exactly thrilled to have you join the Hospital Topolšica. Also, employees and patients in this area are concerned that the hospital will somehow decompose or no longer perform the function it is intended to perform. I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u279	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Member, thank you very much for this question! Let me first answer and calm all those who are afraid, or for the express fear at the end of the question that health care as defined at this site and Topolšica Hospital will remain. We have also agreed, with the adoption of the National Health Plan for the period up to 2025, which foresees and includes optimisation of the management and management of the network in Slovenia, that we will establish a more efficient management and management system. The fact is that Topolšica Hospital is in serious liquidity problems, mainly due to decisions on past investments that unfortunately did not have financial coverage. Liquidity problems are so serious that they cannot be solved only through the recovery program. While we want to maintain health care in this hospital and at this location, while optimising management and management, we will take into account the following criteria and criteria when establishing the entire public health network in Slovenia, as we also wrote in the resolution and adopted by this esteemed assembly: first the number of people, their age and gender structure, and the projection of the population movement for each area. We will further take into account the health and needs of the population, then geographical and transport accessibility to health services, and in particular the needs of vulnerable groups and demographically endangered areas. When we looked at or compared the situation at the Topolšica Hospital and its liquidity problems; they also had difficulties with the payment of salaries and with the executions of individual operators for this investment, we also found together with the General Hospital Celje that the most appropriate way to solve this hospital is to join the General Hospital Celje, the third largest general hospital in Slovenia. Two-thirds of Topolšica Hospital covers mainly General Hospital Celje, with a very important factor also the geographical proximity between hospitals. By connecting, we will achieve more efficient, efficient and less risky governance and governance, which means that we will centralise purchasing, human resources, financial and other support functions that will help and contribute to better and less risky management decisions. In the case of the purchase of materials, Hospital Topolšica will receive all the quantitative discounts already reached by the General Hospital Celje. Income from health programmes will also increase as General Hospital Celje is also a strong negotiator under the general agreement. This will also increase the availability of equipment. However, we are aware that if I use this term, it is necessary to remedy the situation at Topolšica Hospital, because we are aware that we cannot burden any hospital with some past problems due to the wrong decisions of other hospitals where we want to combine these functions. The three-partite agreement, which includes the Celje General Hospital, is also in force, with which they develop the expertise together. More in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u281	According to my information or information, this debt was incurred in the past due to the urgent need for recovery, which apparently had no financial coverage. The question is whether the money that was promised finally came into the right hands. On the other hand, you say you want to optimize management and management and make a more efficient system. Well, here's the question is, can the General Hospital Celje, who doesn't even want this connection, which also has certain problems itself, or can manage and run more effectively some hospital that is located not so far away, but away from the General Hospital headquarters Celje. It is unlikely that this will make management more effective. You also talked about the criteria for integration, accession, you mentioned the number of inhabitants; but we know that this is a specialised hospital for pulmonary diseases, which covers a much wider area than only that narrow area where it is located; also the Koro region and towards the east of Slovenia. I don't know if this is the right way for you to address this issue; for you should also better inform the management of this hospital and the employees and find a good, effective solution with them. Otherwise, they are employed in uncertainty, they are concerned, they are afraid not only of themselves and their wages, but also of the future and also of the profession which is recognised in this hospital.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u282	Madam Minister Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u283	Thank you. I'll proceed with the answer where I ended up. Conversations with employees and with the management of both hospitals have been taking place for some time. I am surprised by your statement or information that the management of Celje General Hospital is not somehow intended to combine management functions or functions of procurement, investment, personnel, finance. According to the interviews, of course, given that this liquidity recovery is being remedied at Topolšica Hospital, Celje General Hospital is prepared to connect or assume these functions. Why do I say that this will also create better conditions for the employment of Topolšica Hospital? One procurement service will be able to procure materials, another investment for both hospitals. I still have to say because things come out of the past. Let me say that the audit of past investments is carried out by the Court of Auditors and also by the Council of the Institute itself, whose members we replaced in the previous year when these skeletons started falling out of closets. An external audit has been set up to review this investment, as it was not only the energy rehabilitation of this hospital, for which cohesion funds and the Ministry's funds were provided. However, this investment project later expanded considerably by around €4.5 million to €5 million in two years. When these audits are completed, we will also be able to determine what, if, mistakes or violations of powers have been made in the past by past leaders. However, regardless of this hospital, patients and this activity must be resolved at this location. Also in the long term, there are needs in this environment and we have intensive discussions with all actors, including the Ministry of Finance, how and how to resolve this liquidity situation and then move forward with this merger or the participation of the General Hospital Celje.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs. Novak, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u285	Yes, I propose that we have a broader debate on the problem of pooling and resolving financial problems in hospitals. I certainly do not intend to defend anyone who has made mistakes in the past in this area that the hospital has come so far and in financial trouble. However, I believe that Celje General Hospital is not thrilled to receive Topolšica Hospital, which has financial problems because they have them themselves. As a result, they are not thrilled and a financial situation will be needed. However, I do not know whether it is necessary to change the organisation or to attach the Topolšica Hospital to Celje General Hospital because financial recovery will be absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravek Počvalšku.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a question about the law that will be under consideration tomorrow. Tomorrow we will consider the so-called lex Mercator Act, in particular the appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration, as you say in the law, in larger system companies with more than 6,000 employees and more than one billion incomes. Minister, I ask you about the constitutionally permissible purposes of such a law. Are your intentions still the same, even until tomorrow’s session? First of all, I am interested in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of many economic lawyers in the Republic of Slovenia, who say that your constitutionally permissible objectives are impossible, that you have not substantiated them and that they are essentially about setting up a political commissioner and pushing the way of another Cuba. These are questions of expertise and also of how Slovenia or, above all, bureaucrats at the Ministry of the Economy represent a free economic initiative under our Constitution; how they imagine private property and private property interventions. With regard to these anomalies that are in such a marriage, I ask you with several aspects. The first aspect explained the constitutionally permissible objectives of adopting such a law. What do you think when you say that an extraordinary member of the board will be able to examine and overlook insolvency proceedings, which are the harmful and wrong decisions of the management? What kind of people are you gonna do that with? Are these the images of the type of Lydia Glavina and the company that we have their CVs of which our students have, so in a few lines where the CVs are wrapped in a shade of mystery; and have more than 12 billion assets? Are these from the so-called bad bank, which is also of questionable origin; hence, people who have been digging a bank hole and who today manage bad claims at a bad bank and sell their former political botts for tens of dollars? Do you think you have a constitutionally permissible goal; do you, as the Minister of Economy, who personally values you in some professions, feel that you are on the right track and that you will be able to argue such a law correctly before the professional Slovenian and world public? Thank you very much for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Minister for Economic Development and Technology Mr Zdravko Restoršek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u289	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. In opening, I would like to point out that I cannot agree with your concerns. I must also say that this company that you have appointed is currently managed by the neighbouring government when you talk about private property; however, it is also a fact that the company is private law. The aim of the bill is, first of all, to protect the interests of society of systemic importance and indirectly to prevent the consequences on the economic, social and financial stability of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the proposal for a law first sets out which company in the Republic of Slovenia is of systemic importance, thus affecting economic, social and financial stability in the Republic of Slovenia by its business and employment. This company will be subject to additional protection by law through an extraordinary member of the administration. The tasks and duties of this member of the administration shall be solely linked to business with a majority shareholder and shall not interfere with the current business of that company; in the event that the majority member is insolvency, which is the case. The proposed decision is provisional, mainly related to the existence of circumstances related to the majority of the participants in difficulties, that is insolvency. Member of the Commission, with regard to the concerns of constitutional nature, I reiterate that the Government and the National Assembly are responsible for establishing an economic policy that is best suited to achieve general social well-being and the state. In doing so, you have a wide field of discretion. With regard to the evidence of interference with the free economic initiative, I stress that a free economic initiative does not mean that the establishment of economic operators and the management of economic activities can be completely free. If the public benefit is shown, the legislator may lay down specific conditions for entrepreneurship, which constitute a restriction on the free economic initiative. I am of the opinion that, in the case of a proposal for a law, we can talk about public benefit. By implementing, we will allow companies of systemic importance who have a majority shareholder in difficulty, normal and smooth business. At the same time, we will prevent the negative effects on the company's business of systemic importance and affect its ability to meet its obligations to domestic and foreign suppliers, employees and other stakeholders. The measure is proportionate as it pursues a constitutionally permissible objective, which is the social and economic function of ownership. The legal procedure is necessary due to exceptional circumstances related to insolvency that may arise on the part of a majority shareholder. There is a risk that the system company will not be able to fulfil its claim for compensation due to insolvency of the majority shareholder. This is a corporate privilege whereby a company that manages a subsidiary can give instructions that are also detrimental to it; assuming that these matters will be returned in the long term. In this case, it's not because it's an insolvent owner. The measure is also preventive as it prevents the illegal situation associated with the inability of the majority of the company to repay the deprivation to the system society. The measures in the proposal are legally permissible, legitimate, genuinely justified and appropriate. They establish a proportionate balance between the impact of interference on the right to free economic initiative and the protection of the interests of society of systemic importance and its associated employees, creditors, suppliers and minority shareholders. The proposed measures will maintain a high level of confidence, business relations and legal transport, which is a fundamental condition for economic efficiency and competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Breznik, are you asking for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u291	You surprise me, Mr. Secretary. I believe that policy is a more stimulating business environment; that this is a top policy task; that firms can develop to create conditions that make a better business environment. For all the other anomalies that occur in such systems, when it comes to exhaustion, when it comes to financial fraud and whole matters, we have institutions in Slovenia that we call institutions that are within ministries, we call them so-called inspection services, inspection bodies, both at the Ministry of Finance and at all other ministries. Since the institutions in Slovenia do not work, from 1991 to today we have doubled the number of laws and regulations. That's what I was talking about at the press conference today. Most of the experts, Mr. Secretary, are not the opinions you share. He's talking about it, in a figurative sense, that you're putting up a political commissioner. Also your first discussions to partially follow some German insolvency law, because this is essentially about putting a member of the administration in insolvency proceedings or others, how will this affect major investors who might come to the Republic of Slovenia?Oh, my God! A few days ago, in the case of lex Mercator, I was talking to people who are now participating in a model 3 project in Europe. What would be the primary country where Tesla would build a factory with over 6,000 people working in the field of Europe's largest electric car?Oh, my God! What signs do you set with such laws, where you as a country would interfere with certain companies? Especially in this government, with people who are incomparable, who can most often represent the central management of any serious business with their CVs. And how many system companies we have in Slovenia – you listed Gene-I, SDH and everything else. It's some natural monopolies in the energy field. For me, it's unacceptable. By tomorrow, consider what you are doing and what signals you give to other potential investors in the Slovenian business environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u293	Once again, honourable Member, that the law does not interfere in any way with the ownership structure and does not interfere with the conduct of regular business of this company, a company of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia; and this remains in the domain of regular administration. In view of the increased risk that the majority shareholder will inadvertently exercise its influence in the company of systemic importance and force it to conclude harmful transactions during the time of the term of office of an exceptional member of the company's administration of systemic importance, it shall not grant any guarantees, guarantees, loans, guarantees or similar commitments to the majority owner or the shareholder. Nor may a majority shareholder be granted a loan, advance, trade credit or payment of additional services; unless an exceptional member of the administration agrees to do so. Once again, in this case, it is a measure which concerns only companies that have an insolvency owner, an insolvency mother. And in this case, with this insolvent owner, the insolvent mother is managed by the neighbouring state. The company is of systemic importance; it has at least 6,000 employees by law; in the specific case mentioned, it involves 10,000 people. And it goes specifically, by law, to a net income of one billion, and in your case, it's a billion and a half. We estimate that we are obliged to react immediately; not then with our system and the possibilities that our legislation allows us to put out fires when it is too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Breznik, do you have a procedural request? We have this agenda meeting tomorrow, you said so yourself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u295	I will not make a procedural request because we are discussing this tomorrow and we have some time available. Dear Minister, I do not criticize you, but your colleagues in the government. You and the Croats could not agree on anything in this term. I don't know how you and some lex law, except that, say, you can blacken up Slovenian legal order and give wrong indicators to the world and European public, solve some problem with Croats. A typical example of Agrokor was where there was some strange logical mathematics to set up some very ambitious plan to set up two heavily indebted companies together and that twice minus makes a great plus. That was the point of all this. Mercator was part of a very poor business system, neither optimized internal nor external logistics of this company. And this company did not adapt to these conditions at a time of strong competition in the Republic of Slovenia. For a long time, Mr Jankovic lived in the shadow of Mr Jankovic, when this company was a great monopoly in the field of the trade industry, and this also led to the company falling asleep. In the second phase, I am sure that the same is happening in Croatia. Agrokor is a big system. It was very ambitious, with little equity and large loans from abroad. And look in particular at the interest rates on these loans. The latest recovery by Sberbank, with a 6%, seven percent interest rate, you can't survive in commercial activities anywhere in the world; except for those that are illegal. Dear Minister, I have my doubts. The first doubt I have – we have bad contacts with Croatia. Secondly, I can tell you directly, I spoke to Mr Todorović's son last year at a semi- tournament in Rovinj, where he told me already that if I had anything as a Slovenian policy against Mr Balažič being replaced as soon as possible. Exactly one year ago. I have nothing to hide, and I can say it. The thing is, they're gonna do it. It was. But it's about those who decided whether Mercator should sell to someone, some firm that's already heavily indebted. And with this example, we're always looking for some unsuccessful buyers, people. This customer was in business, he was in a catastrophic debt, and the result couldn't be better than it was. I think that we are doing additional damage to the fact that we have systems, organs in this country that should start working and watching over such systems and looking under our fingertips. This so-called economic crime, which is usually two or three steps ahead of our legislation, of course we will not be able to eradicate. Also, appointing this member of management in case of insolvency proceedings, especially mothers, as you say, will be a late act; that abuse, if any, will indeed occur. But you can give instructions to keep a special eye on such a large system as Mercator; this is the solution. Madam Vice-President, I will not ask for a debate because we have this debate tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u296	Thank you very much. This was not a procedural proposal under our Rules of Procedure, which is intended for third advertising; but I hope it is more an exception that it will not be a rule. Mr Andrej Čuš will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u297	Thank you for your word, chairman. Madam Minister, I am already a little tired and I have enough, and I believe that you are already sick of this, and you have enough to talk every two months and listen to new scenarios about what will happen to the envisaged construction of the Ptuj Emergency Centre, which should in fact start building last year. We have the resources in the budget, for last year we've provided, for this year's little thing. But now I am alone, I must say, quite confused and I am no longer missing what is happening in this country. I know there's something in the local community, something on the state level, on the state; but, hell, let's do something already. I read in the local newspaper days ago that socially responsible companies from Ptuj and the surrounding areas should approach the collection of the financial resources needed to complete this project or to close the financial structure. We are talking about around 600,000 euros in donations from local companies. I believe that a socially responsible individual will also be donating, and I hope that there may also be a Member or a Minister; if there are no funds for health care. And I want to know: What does it mean now that these 600,000 euros will be raised by local communities, socially responsible businesses and individuals, or does this mean that we are finally going to build the Ptuj Emergency Centre; is there a new game in the background? It is said that a ptuj hospital will be attached to the Maribor hospital, which means that the Lower Podravje and Ormož will again be deprived. The treatment of patients and patients will continue to worsen, and we are witnessing it today. We should do something here. On the other hand, providing an additional 500 000 or 600 000 euros for the Ptuj Emergency Centre is a problem; for the second indent, a billion euros and adding value tax are not a problem; you confirm this by means of an urgent procedure. I'm asking nicely for a little consistency.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Madam Minister will be happy to answer the question once again. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. Hello again. Thank you also for the question; although I apologize to those Members for having to repeat some things because a fellow Member has already asked in the early afternoon. It's not about any game, it's just about closing down the financial structure. Then we need to ask the management of a bird hospital. As I have always said, what I say, I have already provided a little less than €2 million in the budget in 2015. And thank God that we have also succeeded this budget fund as some form of money that is protected from putting it back in the budget at the end of the year, that this money, a little less than 2 million, is still there. The problem that we are returning to is the provision of EUR 585 000 of our own participation in the General Hospital Ptuj. Even with many conversations, we tried to help the hospital in various ways. One possible option with which we are also trying to reach agreement with the Ministry of Finance in the final phase is the withdrawal of surpluses at home of the elderly in Ptuj; how and how this money could be transferred and could start with the construction of this emergency centre. In the meantime, there were two very important matters. One thing is that a review of the new project has been carried out. You probably know that in early 2016, General Hospital Ptuj forwarded a new investment programme, which increased by 20%, by a million €55 000, which will also have to be provided with this additional money. The review also stated that according to the methodology, Ptuj belongs to an emergency centre of type C which identifies the appropriate square with regard to the necessary medical care provided. This amendment has been reviewed, verified and now again the ball at General Hospital Ptuj to determine whether all the pages of this reviewer are taken into account in the new proposal, also in the project documentation. We haven't received this proposal before yesterday. However, we intensively with the Ministry of Finance, regardless of whether I have heard that they are collecting donations, we are looking for this EUR 600,000 as a participation or this share that has to be provided by every hospital. When all these matters are resolved and we also get a statement from the hospital, believe me, we will immediately go into the tender and start building.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Hear, are you requesting a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u301	I must say that I am pleased that the Ministry of Finance has finally decided that it is also ready to accept this option to transfer part of the profits of the Ptuj Retirement House to build the Ptuj Emergency Centre. This was already one of the very real proposals ten years ago, or five years ago, it was discussed, there were some forms or sources of funding. Although it saddens me that this is how everything is drawn in this Slovenia. This is not a criticism of you regarding this project, Madam Minister. Please inform us what will happen at the Ministry of Finance, because then we will go after the Minister of Finance and not you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, will you complete this?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u303	I've been working all this time to get this ER to set up, which is what people in this area belong to. However, I regret and see no reason why it was not already included in the original network so that this centre could operate for a year.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Germany will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič and Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u305	Thank you so much for saying that. Good afternoon, Your Honor. I turn to you as a sport lover; for we all acknowledge that we are a sports nation not only in the heart that beats us, but also in the results. There is virtually no competition of any industry where we rank very high or even higher. The State’s attitude towards sport is also appropriate. In recent decades, we have also witnessed major transformations in relation to this. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has done a great deal, and I must say that it has successfully led to the National Assembly to propose a law redesigning such relations. Social Democrats, within the scope of the content of the bill you have drawn up, Madam Minister, have advocated one very important thing: sport in relation to health and vice versa. The sport can be divided into two pillars, recreational and competitive. Sport has become a business or business. And how can we protect our children, our athletes, in a healthy way? Of course, we wanted to be able to provide companies – we know, with the lack of money, it is very important that we could improve our relationship with the country – that those children who have been systematically examined in educational institutions, in one part or in the majority part, should also be subject to this medical examination for the exercise of sport in their societies. And it was very good. The definition of the problem is that the current proposal of the Sports Act in Article 66 states that sports programme operators take care of the exercise process and that it does not harm the health of the leaders, Article 68 states that athletes are entitled to preventive health care, that this is also ensured by the Resolution on the National Sport Programme 2014-2018. However, it breaks with regard to the Ministry of Health, with rules governing healthcare and health insurance. Article 45 of the draft Law on Health and Health Insurance provides for the deletion of the health care of athletes. Here I would stop because it is as if Minister Gasperšič, who is sitting behind you, suggested that children do not use helmets when riding a bicycle or drivers when driving cars or mopeds. The standard of protection of young athletes and their potential development is being lowered. I'd like to know, Your Honor, the Secretary of State: What measures are you implementing or planning at the ministries regarding the health of athletes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u306	Thank you very much. First of all, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u307	First, I would like to briefly explain what is in line with the Sports Act and the Rules on the criteria for co-financing the implementation of the annual sport programme at national level. The superstandard health insurance of top athletes is co-financed, at the level determined by the Annual Sport Programme, which is coordinated through the Professional Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Sport and also with all stakeholders. This is about 30,000 euros a year, depending on the annual plan itself. This is done through the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – Association of Sports Unions. The right organization then divides these funds among athletes according to their status. 538 top athletes were insured from this title last year; 580 is foreseen for this year. Why am I starting this? To continue with your proposal, which you have also submitted in the context of the harmonisation of the law. Our proposal for health legislation is that this is also maintained through systematic checks and preventive checks; especially when this applies to young athletes, that we have some synthesis and at the same time follow-up to this athlete. To a certain extent, these rights are now being maintained, and so far there has always been a problem with the feasibility of these rights. In principle, we retain rights within the framework of the systematic work for young athletes; we also stress by our reflections on the proposed health legislation that we would like to do so to a greater extent, especially in greater access to a more frequent way of looking where it proves necessary, as do individual teams or associations. Health legislation is still being coordinated in this area, and we will also, in accordance with the analyses that we have proposed, try in advance to ensure, under the second law, this implementation method, not as much of a right as a right as a right, but also the concept of implementation. But here we can't do it alone, here we are in talks and in dialogues, with which we will continue on our side.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u308	Thank you very much. And also Minister of Health, Mrs. Mary Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u309	Thank you, too, for that question. I will tell you from a slightly broader perspective; it is likely that there will be a two-way answer. On 13 April, the Government approved the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Resolution on the National Food Programme and Physical Activity for Health 2015-2025 until 2018. This is a whole set of measures that are in line with many ministries, including the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. These measures will not only contribute to better eating habits but also to increasing the physical activity of all ages. Activities are aimed at promoting physical activity and sport for all that is very important – for better health, prevention of obesity, higher productivity and higher quality of life. Now for the athletes. Since now, registered and categorised sportsmen from solidarity-gathered means of compulsory health insurance have the right to preventive health care. And according to me, I have a guarantee from the drafters who write this law that nothing changes for athletes. For categorised athletes, preventive examinations are carried out by one and a half teams of specialists in sport medicine. All children and adolescents, including registered athletes, have the right to a systematic review by the end of schooling or by the age of 18 if they are out of regular schooling. In the specific circumstances identified in this review, the doctor shall advise and, if necessary, refer to additional diagnostic procedures. And I'll continue to complete it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. German, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u311	Thank you very much. My implementation is well-intentioned as the coordination of both your ministries will take place in the coming days. I would really like to prevail here, forgive me, common sense; for no missed opportunities like this in the field of sport should be evaluated in a way that children will be given less and less health care. In the debate we have had in recent weeks, the power of the professional public has been to detect certain movements, irregular movements. Therefore, with all good pleasure, I would like to place our hearts on you to conclude the Sports Act in the coming weeks in a way that will be especially kind to athletes and that the country will finally show and prove its true relationship. The Ministry of Education, Science and Sport has shown a lot of energy and good will. I believe, Madam Minister of Health, that there will also be energy and good will in your ministry for the benefit of sport and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Ms Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will reply further.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u313	If there were no energy and will in our ministry, it would be difficult to expect to harmonise individual laws and solutions after two years. I think that's more than enough evidence. According to known information, I will not explain how we have the system today – systematic checks and preventive checks with solidarity-based collected compulsory health insurance resources to avoid these young athletes from causing overload syndromes of the musculo-skeletal system, proper nutrition and other factors which result in the possibility of leaving lasting consequences on the young body when I asked, were assured by my colleagues and colleagues at the Ministry, who are preparing registers of laws based on public comments, that there are no differences or decreases in certain rights in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Petr Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u315	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Dear Minister, at the beginning of March this year you attended the round table in Velenje City Municipality, where you were familiar with the state roads in this area. Since roads are in extremely poor condition and their quality is getting worse, I ask you: When do you plan to perform road rehabilitation in the Velenje area, because the fact is that these roads do not provide minimum safety for traffic participants because of the extremely poor situation? One of the most problematic roads is the Chaleška road, which contains huge impact holes and wheels, where water stops in the rain, up to 20 centimeters deep. Another extremely dangerous road is the Partizan road on the Velenje-Pese route, where a large proportion of traffic is represented by freight vehicles which in the rain cause damage to the facades of buildings along the road. The next road is Kidrič's road, with a similarly poor state of the road, which prevents pedestrians from walking on the sidewalk in the rain, due to the uncontrolled drainage of the meteoric waters, blocking the approach to the pedestrians and thus causing damage to municipal buildings. It is also in very poor condition between Škale and Plešivec and the section between Skalski lake and Škale settlement. The section of Velenje–Polzel Road already has project documentation for reconstruction, since the road is in very poor condition, which means that virtually everything is ready for recovery. In the end, I must also draw attention to the Vinskoorski Clanec, which is already causing car damage because it is able to drive through the macadamian caves. This is another road where recovery is extremely urgent. Finally, let me repeat the question: When can we expect our roads to be repaired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gaspersich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u317	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, ladies and gentlemen, for the question raised. On my visit to Velenj and the wider Sava region, we discussed in particular the construction of the third development axis, which I think is also a very important and crucial infrastructure project for this region. On the occasion of this visit, we agreed that the activities are continuing, that the construction of a fast four-pass road to Slovenia Gradec is planned, that funds are prepared to produce project documentation for land acquisition, that first construction permits are expected by the end of 2018 and that it continues with construction activities in 2019 and beyond. The dynamics of construction itself will be more precisely defined in the six-year operational plan that we are preparing at the Ministry, which is expected to be adopted by summer of this year. This six-year operational plan, which operationalises last year's Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme, will then be a plan to which sections, for how much money and in what years they will be implemented. This plan will also define more precisely all the other measures we are planning during this six-year period. Each year, the implementation of the plan will be reviewed and the next six years added. This will be some kind of rough six-year plan that will be revised and extended every year for the next six years. With regard to these specific sections that you ask me about, I can say the following. In each area, investments in road networks are divided into investment measures, which includes investment maintenance and new construction, and regular maintenance, which mainly includes lower-value road renewals, which are carried out after injuries after the winter period. Here are a number of such sections that you have listed, which will be restored in the framework of regular maintenance work performed due to injuries after the winter period. If listed, these sections of Velenje–Skale, where a 600-metre recovery is envisaged and is expected to take place this fall, will be carried out on this section some minor repairs of damaged sections; then similar repairs of damaged vehicles after the winter period will be carried out at the section of Zgornji Dolic–Velenje, also at Velenje–Pesesje section are envisaged to replace a road construction of approximately 700 metres in length, an estimate of the cost of the investment is approximately EUR 300,000. Then there are investment measures where more difficult interventions into road infrastructure are involved, and here is the planned activity at the Škala-Plesivec section, where a plot of land is being prepared, followed by a call for reconstruction. Work is expected to start in 2018. The same is true for Kidrič and Šaleška cesta in Velenje, where a new project documentation is also being prepared and implementation is envisaged in the coming year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič, complete reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u319	I don't have an update, but thank you very much for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u320	Mr Benedict Kopmajer will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u321	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Minister! This time I will raise my question of the mission geographically broader, not just for Koroška; even though of course I care the most about Koroška, you know. Olive oil has been present in Slovenia since the antiquity, which means that its production is one of the most important industries in this field of Slovenia. In Slovenia, 98% of all olive trees in Slovenia are planted today. Our olive oil is extremely quality and recognized abroad. Of course, the high quality of the product would not be achieved if our olive farmers did not invest in production in the expertise that helps them to acquire and develop public services. From 2000 onwards, the Olive Testing Centre from Nova Gorica, which operates in the framework of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, has been carrying out professional tasks in the field of olive production. In the field of olivery, the Centre, together with other olive-based organisations and societies, has done a great deal in the field of education of individual olive trees, particularly in terms of processing, combating pests, fertilisation, cultivation and development of different varieties of olives, storage of olives and olive oil and methods of production. Last year, the government set up a new public research institute, the Koper Research Centre, which is supposed to carry out the same tasks as now the Olive Centre. I therefore ask the Minister of Agriculture: What does the establishment of this institution last year mean from the point of view of the operation of the Olive Test Centre? Will the way in which agricultural production is carried out in the field of olivery, which has now been divided into agronomics, which, as has already been said, has been carried out by the Centre for Olivery; and the food work to be carried out by the Koper Research Centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u322	Thank you very much. The Minister of Magic will answer. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u323	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Member, for the question. In the National Assembly, you have a proposal for an amendment to the Agriculture Act, which you will also consider at the Committee on Agriculture on 4 May. This also allows, if, as such, it is also accepted that public service providers are directly appointed. Here I would like to say immediately that, since 2013, and probably before, the producers who are gathered in the Olive Council have reported, asked, and in some ways also require us to combine some of the expertise because we do not have many in Slovenia, as much as possible within the organisational group or at least the contractual group. The strategic documents that Slovenia has are also showing in this direction. But here's the plan. Once the amendments to the Agriculture Act have been adopted, the ICG will present a proposal for a sub-legislative act, which is already under way, including for olive oil. On the basis of this proposal or a sub-legal act, institutions in Slovenia will be invited to present whether olive selection and induction of olive varieties, processing technology, the provision of olive base material and the determination of the value of olives for processing. The targets we're following are at least two. First of all, that we have a multi-year relationship, that experts know a few years in advance what their work is, and they devote themselves more to their professional work than to thinking about whether they will get their job back from the country. The second objective is to act unitedly. How many bets we get and how many bets we're going to play, it's too fast to predict right now. At this point, I also cannot say whether they will be as a single institution or as a consortium role or any other role. But as a guarantee, I can say the following. Experts, who are understaffed, will also be looking for possible new structures, and will be respected. Their fate will be known and assured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Health Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u325	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All present, distinguished Madam Minister! Since the beginning of the talks on the proposal for a Health Act, this is about half a year, I have drawn verbally and in writing to the contentious provisions of the proposal for a Health Action Act, which continues to decommission health homes and hospitals. One of the anomalies that should be removed by law is the practice that enables public servants to seek benefits from doctors in health homes and hospitals in their own and other private health economic organisations — espouses and parts. Similarly, the concessionaire may serve in his own self-paid infirmary in addition to the public service. Why is that so controversial? In both cases, it is a conflict of interest, which civil society and I are also reminded of by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which considers that the pursuit of health care in public and private health is a contradiction of interests, which represents a significant systemic corruption risk. In order to eliminate these conflicts of interest, we have also committed ourselves to coalition parties in the Coalition Treaty. It follows from the proposal of the Health Act recently adopted in the Government that the current harmful practice should even be legalised. Therefore, I am interested in your reasons for insistence in the disputed practice, which introduces systemic corruption, financial ill public health, reduces its effectiveness, creates artificial waiting types and, due to the damage to patients' health, and threatens the lives of patients with unacceptable waiting periods. Conflicting practices, which you do not want to interrupt, are more likely to abuse public health resources as they can be transferred to private hospitals. In some cases, public and private practice of the same doctor is carried out in the same public health institution and in the same office. Every now and then we hear about material or apparatus that simply disappeared from health institutions. It was not long before a significant number of UKC Ljubljana venous braces disappeared. Who would need vascular braces or expensive medical equipment?Oh, my God! Have you ever wondered how much money public health costs materials and appliances that end up in private practice? Let me list some other anomalies: at the same time, the work of doctors in public health homes and hospitals and in private practice enables time abuse in public health care, as time in the public service can be used to treat patients from private practice. I want to know: How, then, do you justify your insistence on controversial practices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Minister Marija Milojka Kolar Celarc will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. Hello again! Member of the Commission, Ms Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, thank you also for this question. Why is the proposal for a solution to the work of all healthcare professionals, not just doctors, outside of their employer, specifically regulated by the amendment of this law? In order to regulate work in a transparent and systematic manner with another employer, whether it is a public institution or if the other employer is a private person, a clean private person or a concessionary. Why is it not possible to immediately and 100 % division of labour in public and private? Because it has been repeatedly said that there are approximately 1,000 doctors missing from our system in relation to the average of EU countries. This is why the new law systematically regulates the work of doctors and health workers in the way it is. First, the conditions under which a healthcare professional may also provide health care to other health care providers are laid down and are bound to fulfil all obligations to his employer and to respect the obligation to rest and annual leave. At the same time, the amendment of the Labour Law to another employer or to another public institution provides for a prior notification to its employer in this work, and the employer may at any time prohibit such work if, of course, the employee fails to fulfil his or her duties to the primary employer or if he or she violates the required rest. However, to work with another private healthcare provider, it is necessary for employees to obtain their employer’s prior consent, and the conditions for granting their consent are also linked to the fulfilment of all obligations to their employer and also to the condition that there is no damage to the public service or that there is no disturbance in the performance of the public service. In addition, the draft law also lays down a time limit for work with another employer outside public health establishments at 8 hours a week or in an average time limit of 6 months. Further condition: work without consent or contrary to the consent given constitutes a breach of the labour obligation, which may also be the reason for the termination of the employment contract. Furthermore, the novel provides for the obligation to report monthly to its employer on this work in a way that shows where, which days and how long the individual healthcare worker has performed such work. Infringement of reporting obligations is the reason why the consent given can be revoked. It also introduces, which is very important, the inspection of this work, namely the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, as the Member State has said, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has already in its systematic principled opinion in 2014 that the interconnection of public and private interest in health or the existence of doctors working at the same time in public and private health is a systemic corruption risk and therefore an increase in the risk of conflicts of interest is created. In this regard, the KPC recommended that the progressive legal prohibition of co-operation in the public sector of employed physicians in private clinics and other private institutions should be considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please choose the word to request a supplement to the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have not answered the question. If there are no doctors in public health, why do you allow them to work in private practice? It is clear from your response that you have no legitimate reason to legalise harmful practices, nor is it a gradual phase-out of this harmful practice. You point out that doctors will have to obtain permission from a public health organisation to work in private. How can a public health organisation safeguard public interest, but at the expense of the deterioration of public health, there are increasing numbers of doctors, including many former and current leaders in individual public health organisations? The regulation that must prevent harmful practices is the task of health policy, that is your task, Madam Minister. Have you ever checked how many hospital doctors' surgeries are greatly reduced when they start serving you outside their own hospital? According to some data, there's half of it. The Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission have found that waiting lines are often skipped for non-health reasons in self-paid medical clinic patients. Existing practice encourages doctors to create artificial waiting types and to redirect patients to private self-payment clinics. You deceive yourself with words about strengthening health homes and hospitals, but you act in the direction of their breakdown. I hope it's not a rhetorical question when I ask you again: Are you going to do anything to prohibit the harmful practices that we are currently witnessing, that is, to serve doctors, public servants, or doctors who perform public service, even in private self-paying clinics, even though it is known that this practice will go hand in hand with the law that will be part of systemic corruption? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs. Milojka Kolar Celarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u331	Thank you for your word. One more time. I am very surprised that this answer is clearly understood by the Member of Parliament in a slightly different way as the basic purpose of this new law. The KPK also said that a gradual legal ban on simultaneous action in public and private matters is necessary. What would an immediate ban mean? In the case of cords, it must be said that the concessionaire is part of the public network and is also working in the public network system. Why gradually? So, lack of doctors. And what would it mean to immediately ban work with the concessionaire? This would in fact reduce accessibility to health services, increase waiting periods, thus, of course, prolonging these lists and making health services more difficult and less accessible. Furthermore, with the introduction of eTravel and eProcurement it will not be possible and it will not be possible to skip waiting periods, because it will be electronically managed for a thousand 123 of all health services in Slovenia in one system, if you want, even in one place. It will be refreshed for two hours; anyone who will be ordered could see where in Slovenia the fastest one can come to the next for individual inspection or intervention. Today this is possible because, of course, these waiting lists are maintained by individual health care providers by hand, in the Excel tables, they are being corrected and so on. Well, that won't be possible with the insurance. I can tell you that 12 thousand e-mails and orders were issued last week. I think that's pretty eloquent in itself. With regard to the artificial creation of waiting periods, unfortunately the Ministry cannot prevent this because it is an expert and independent assessment of the treatment in the responsibility and scope of each doctor, and if some unions call for them to write only the travels, then there is no government, state or minister of health and money that could avoid such waiting periods. This is why a step has now been taken, important, forward in a systematic way, including by monitoring, inspection and sanctioning, which has not been so far limited to possible measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Here you go, ma'am. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u333	Thank you very much for your answer. I have to challenge you because Madam Secretary has been deceiving you. I was not talking about the ban on the work of concessionaires, but about the prohibition of working in their self-paying infirmary, in addition to working in the public service.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u334	Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u335	As far as skipping waiting lines is concerned for non-health reasons, we have already concluded at the meeting of the Public Finance Commission that this will still be possible. But I also apologize for having had to use these two minutes to reject this misexecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u337	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable all present, respected Minister of Education, Science and Sport. My question is about the pressures that parents of children face every day with special needs that they attend the developmental departments of kindergartens. Since kindergarten development departments are not evenly available in the region, parents often enroll children in other municipalities' kindergartens and devote an important part of the family budget to transport costs. The Act on child guidance with special needs in Article 16 provides for reimbursement of transport costs for children with special needs for educational institutions. In practice, therefore, only parents of children who are involved in institutions for the education and education of children with special needs, but not parents of children who are involved in kindergarten development. However, this distinction does not, according to my assessment, allow for this distinction, so I believe that it is both a social and a constitutional issue. It is highly segregated and contrary to the principles of inclusive education. Children are forced into special forms of education and are removed from the normal environment, while the distinction is also constitutionally controversial, nor does it have an adequate basis in law, even though the Ministry refers to it after interpretation. In view of the above, I ask you, Madam Minister, what is the position of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport regarding the failure to realize the right of children with special needs included in the adjusted preschool education programme to ensure the reimbursement of transport costs from the place of residence to the place where the kindergarten works and back? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u339	Dear President, Your Honor, House of Honor! It is true that the development departments of kindergartens, in accordance with the legislation, establish local communities, in accordance with the rules that, or reasonably, such a department should be developed if at least three children are in need of such special treatment. This should also provide this network of development departments, as close as possible to the place where the child is also living. There is generally no return on transport for the parents of these children, except when it comes to treatment at specific centres, which you yourself have mentioned. So it's four centers, especially deaf, deaf, blind, visually impaired children, and when there's no other choice but to have children there. This means that the law provides for the reimbursement of these costs, but only in the case of this part of the establishment. It is true that the development departments are very difficult, including financially, in the organisation, in the implementation for local communities. In particular, these development departments need to be set up as close as possible to the children in need. That is why, in accordance with the Early Childhood Treatment Act, we have foreseen that in 2019 we will assume funding for the difference in the cost of paying kindergartens for children, i.e. the difference in the price between the regular programme and the development programme, especially because we know that certain specific needs are becoming more widespread and that, as a result, kindergartens or local communities — wherever possible — are responding to this and that is not possible in many ways. For this reason, we would like to generalise the creation of development departments as close as possible to the child, including in order to expand this network. Indeed, access is not possible everywhere, and these departments are not organized everywhere, even though the needs may be and may be, or they may be close enough to carry out appropriate activities both with children and with parents where necessary. Of course, the payment of transport has always been a problem in this area, and we are aware of that too. As you know, we also coordinate a lot with local communities; some are very inclined, others are less inclined. It is true, however, that particular areas where this is extremely difficult to ensure are also not possible in some areas to develop these development departments. As a result, we hope that at least this bonus, or this difference, will help to facilitate both the local community and parents' accession to these departments. As for transportation, this will need to be coordinated from the congregation to the congregation, as you yourself have rightly determined that there are no direct grounds for doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u340	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Here you are, Mrs. Marija Bachič, a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Yes, I am very aware of this, and I can also say that some congregations in Pomour face very serious problems, and often when I talk to them, they say that there is no legal basis for them to pay the costs. But it is true that parents have difficulty going to the congregations to ask: “Please pay me back my expenses” because they know how their congregations face problems. But somehow I don't think it's acceptable because some parents then don't even put a child in kindergarten. Now that we are adopting a law on early treatment of children with special needs, we are all very aware of the urgency of early and early professional treatment of these children. Of course, if scarecrows do not get these costs reimbursed and cannot pay for anything, children, of course. Here I would also like to remind you that the importance of accessibility has also been addressed by experts in the White Paper on Education and Education, which states that the State must strive to ensure that all kindergarteners have adequate conditions for working with different children with special needs. What have we done in this direction? At the very least, what I expect is that, at least in the law, as you have already said, early treatment of children with special needs, accessibility to development departments will be ensured and children will all receive this vocational education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u343	It is also very topical in the light of the preparation of the new law. However, I must point out that local communities are the founders of kindergartens, and for this very reason we always – and if only we can – coordinate, we help, we are also looking for solutions when possible. It is true, however, that the so-called comprehensive treatment of children with special needs must be increasingly ensured, and in particular new approaches should be justified and developed in the early treatment of these children. Therefore, the kindergarten domain is also one of those key first steps in child development, so that we can then, through different treatments, approach to assistance, support, development of an individual child. As you know, in the new projects we also foresee the establishment of several professional centres for the purpose of early treatment of children. We promise that, for this purpose, the local communities will then be not only more connected, but also perhaps more sensitive in some areas to try to promote not only development departments, but, above all, integrated treatment of children from the first steps forward. We will work hard to do this, but it is true that this is an interdepartmental substance that affects several areas, and, of course, in the implementation work, especially in the local community.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Now we're really moving on to the next round. Mr Marko Ferruga will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u345	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers, the secretary-general and the two ministers and the other last Mexicans who are here – Members, I'm sorry. As early as 2016, an initiative was given by the Czech Republic on the difference in food products on shelves in the European Union at the European Union Committee on European Union Affairs at one of the starting points for the preparation of a ministerial meeting on agriculture. This made it clear that there are first- and second-class European countries regarding the quality of food and drink. A month ago, perhaps a little more, but also the STA, as well as Slovenian media, were able to download or write an article on some analysis, between Czech and German food products, where 35% of the products tested revealed a significant difference in content. The main differences were the Pepsi-type sodas and so on, the Rama margarines, yoghurts and so on. In my own words, the difference between Nutella and Nutella is certainly essential. One is the Italian Nutella, one is Nutella, which is produced in Poland and sold to us, one is the German Nutella, which is also sold to us, so there is actually some difference in this food issue. The same is true of my behavior to make different machines, even if you want cars, but that's not today's topic. But on your part, Mr. Secretary, I am interested in: Have we done any analysis of these foods? If so, what are the findings? If this introduction was, then to somehow try or join this Czech initiative, to really then these food products are somehow put into something the same, I will not only say pricey, but also quality care. I'm asking for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u346	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Minister Dejan Jidan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u347	Thank you. Thank you, Mr Member, for the current question as well. Slovakia and Hungary requested, and Slovenia also supported, the discussion at the AUB point of the Council responsible in March Brussels. Both had their own expertise, where they argued that the product they considered to be identical, which at least the consumer identified as identical, was essentially different and then has different quality characteristics. In addition, it has been heard from multinationals that it is true that different areas are adapted to taste and are also adapted to price levels, which is not disputed. The issue is whether this is not clearly visible to the consumer. If it were written on a drink, chocolate or Nutella, this is Nutella for Eastern Consumers and this is Nutella for Western Consumers, the consumer would probably be informed as well as decide as he would. The problem is that the consumer perceives these products as equivalent and that is why Slovenia has also supported this debate. The responsible European Commissioner, Czech Republic, was also very much involved in this debate and is responsible for market performance or consumer protection. She informed us of the following: for the first time, in her opinion, the current legislation allows that, if such practices are discovered, they are strictly lawfully persecuted and that she is willing even to accelerate persecution; and for the second time, she has given us some kind of promise to carry out some kind of mapping at European Union level by looking at more regions and getting us to know the results from the next Council, which is expected to be at mid-this year. What did Slovenia do in the meantime? We have so far not had, apart from individual guesses, any evidence that different products under the same brand are of the same quality. Besides, we had a case study by the consumer organisation just for hazelnuts, which I am not allowed to give him a name where there were no differences. At this time, a study of the Institute for Nutritionist has already been made available to us, where declarations have been compared. They did not find any significant differences, in particular not to the detriment of Slovenia and for the benefit of Austria or vice versa. Why am I stressing this? Therefore, when they did the analysis, foreigners did not find out anywhere, so they would explain to us that there is a difference between what the analysis finds and what the declaration says. The problem is that the consumer does not compare the declaration and has nothing to compare it with. That's the first one. Secondly, the Food Safety Authority was requested and did the following. After various supply routes within Slovenia, our administration cannot take samples, but there are different supply channels, it has taken multiple samples and when analysing declarations there were minor deviations, which according to them are not essential. However, the Food Safety Authority has also sent a range of products for testing, the results will be known during this month and, of course, will also be made publicly available to you and the general public. Another fourth activity is under way, and this is, the Ministry is concluding lower-value contracts with consumer organisations, which have the possibility of taking samples from outside the country. Thus, Slovenia will be armed with its own data for the next debate, which is expected to take place in June or July at European Union level in Brussels, as well as on the Committee and also in Parliament, if you wish, the results will be presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u348	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the question to the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u349	Thank you for your word, chairman. My colleague Ferlug now had a very good question about the quality of food, that I must say this in public and out loud – an important thing. What pains me is my question of the Member State, but it is the financing of the private primary education that the Government is opening. In fact, on 6 April, it adopted the new ZOFVI, which brings about an increase in the financing of private primary education, and thus actually changes the concept of primary education in us, which, of course, is based on public school. If I start with financial information. The share of education expenditure in the state budget was almost 19% in 2008, and by 2015 this share had fallen to 14.9%. Slovenia allocates 4.8% of GDP to educational institutions from kindergartens to colleges, while the average of the OECD varies to 5.2%. In addition to the decrease in resources, the financing of private primary education is being fully increased. This will be financed in full new terms with public money. For the first time, it's a purely unfair practice and, secondly, it brings with it serious developmental consequences. Private education will be practically fully financed from public money, and it will also be able to bill additional fees and thus offer a superstandard programme. Such an approach quickly brings into a two-tier school system; one private for the rich, of course better, and the other, public, which will be faced with falling quality and will be dedicated to all others: paradise, proletarians and so on. The Joint Left, SD and Desus Group have already tabled a proposal in February 2015 to complement the Constitution, which would make a clear distinction between public and private education. A party colleague, your Milan Brglez, then explained to the college somehow in the sense that these constitutional commissions were not convened, because there was no consensus in the SMC on this issue and we must wait for a different political will to take place, but now we are faced with it. I want to know: What are the reasons why you are now in government forcing the new ZOFVI, which increases the financing of private primary education? Otherwise, you can say - the decision of the Constitutional Court; but, if we are honest, how many decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are very creatively interpreted or not established at all and so on. Another question: Why funding an extended programme of 85 percent? This is not based on a decision of the Constitutional Court, you can refer here to some of the rights of 1996, but the formal legal thing is clear: it is a matter of the law, and if we everywhere respect old rights, we should not change at all at the end of 90 percent of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Let me first explain that the basic relationship between public and private education was established for the first time in the period 1996 by means of an organisation and financing law. That law understood private education as a complement to public education, aimed at enriching educational programmes; that is, implementing different methods, different approaches to work, but still following learning objectives. The law provided for both the public service procedure and the way private schools were financed, and this law provides that private schools implementing public programmes account for 85 per cent of the funds provided by the State for the implementation of this scheme in public school. The reasons for the 1996 law also give rise to the definition that the law supports the development of private education and therefore also legalizes this solution so that a private school that fulfils the appropriate conditions for obtaining the public validity of the programme obtains a right of up to 85 per cent of the funding for the entire programme. The proposal to amend the ZOFVI does not in any way change the relationship between public and private, nor does its definition, as defined in 1996, but in fact implements the constitutional decision, as you yourself have already stated, by making private schools implementing a public policy programme, that is to say, to acquire public validity, exclusively financed by that part which is a compulsory part, as a 100 % funding. Everything else, as you yourself have already stated, is a right. So in the primary school program we separate the compulsory part and so on the extended part of the program. Given that we have not intervened in the financing of the enlarged part of the programme, and given that it is actually financed in the compulsory part only that part that is actually being carried out, as far as private or public schools are concerned, we keep the funding already obtained in this way. You said we financed it to the fullest extent, that is. That's not exactly from the explanation I gave. At the same time, it does not hold that we are still falling, if I understand correctly, a share of GDP. This government has just begun to increase [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Oh, well, then I'll take it back, because it's this government that started to increase the share of GDP for education and science as well. Of course, we would like to add more and more quickly appropriate resources. However, I must point out that the substance of the legislative amendment is not only the implementation of the proposed legislative amendment, not only the implementation of the constitutional decision of course, but, above all, that the amendment of the ZOFVI also regulate the conditions for the establishment of schools – that is, we are talking about potentially newly established schools – but, above all, that we include all this in the so-called quality standards, the fulfilment of these quality standards and, of course, the monitoring of the evaluation of the achievement of the learning objectives – whether we are in public or private work. Therefore, the quality of the programme and in particular the consideration of the new dimensions that social progress has brought, must also be included in the way of ensuring quality and following up on learning objectives. In addition, I should like to point out that there will no longer be a public policy or public validity following the proposed amendment to the automatic financing of the resulting public programme. This is exactly what we wanted to avoid in the light of the quality and achievement of this and at the same time, as stated above, the proposals or criteria and standards for achieving this public validity are being complemented. In this way, we strengthen public education, that is, the part that is really the basic pillar of our educational system. Let me say that I am just returning from the teaching summit, where we have been invited by the OECD and other co-organizers precisely because we have one more solid, stable and development-oriented public and inclusive school systems. But in private, it complemented that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, will you request a further reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u353	Thank you for your word. In most cases, if the OECD invites someone, the best course of action is to stay as far away from it as possible, because nothing good usually comes from the OECD, except statistics, but only recipes for privatisation and commercialisation – including education. My question touched on the constitutional provisions. Firstly, we know that this constitutional provision has been adopted in highly punitive circumstances and constitutes an 180 per cent facility in relation to the position of the Constitutional Court before that. It's just the first thing. Secondly, in this country we have a set of constitutional provisions that are either taken into account or disregarded or highly creatively interpreted. Your SMC party, a key coalition party, has also made a history of creative interpretation of legal standards in three years, after all, of the Foreign Act, which is awaiting a constitutional review. This is where I want to know: What are the reasons why you decided to go to the ZOFVI novel right now and force it? Why now and go along with further to increase the funding of private primary education? The decision of the Constitutional Court certainly cannot be this reason, this trigger, can't at all be the reason for your stubborn insistence on this, even with respect to your coalition partners. Then there's the extended part of the program. Nor does the Constitutional Court decision require that an extended primary school programme be co-financed, as this funding places private schools in an even more privileged position and there is no legal, external, whatever leverage, why this should be in the new ZOFVI. If anything, it's the opposite: this money should go to public schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u354	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Let me first explain about the constitutional process, although this is the domain of this assembly, of this national assembly. At the Ministry, we have presented all the professional backgrounds and visions in the light of the potential change in the constitution in this area and, as far as I know, the processes are continuing. The SMC Party also supported this and, as far as I know, it is a domain to be taken over by the National Assembly together with the Constitutional Commission. As far as the exercise of acquired rights is concerned, yes, they were granted in 1996. That's right. It also maintains, of course, that we are demarcating a mandatory and extended programme. And it is also true that, of course, we introduce so-called criteria, we can also say safeguards for all, in order to ensure the real quality and achievement of learning objectives so that all those who are either involved in a public programme or a private programme can participate in the real follow-up of learning objectives. Therefore, the ZOFVI proposal itself had to be well coordinated. The answer is why right now. As you know, we've been preparing this law for a long time, we've coordinated it, we've had several attempts. So the answer is why it probably doesn't have to be given right now, because it's been ready for the past year. Indeed, it is also coordinated by administrative standards and interpretations, in what way, however, to ensure movement in the treatment of the above-mentioned quality criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u357	Thank you very much. The Government or the Minister of Education apparently insists on raising funds for private primary schools, which I can hardly be satisfied with, so I would like a general debate in the National Assembly, as one of the instances of how we can raise funds for private education. We must keep this debate in mind that every cent that goes to private schools comes from a small amount of public education funding. And more funds for private schools is the poverty of the public school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. Kordish. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Uroš Prikl will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr Anji Kopač Dark and the Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go, Mr. Prickl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u359	Thank you very much and once again a nice greeting to all those who persist in this late afternoon. This time, my question is about the Advocate of the principle of equality, two ladies, the Minister of Labour and the Secretary-General, I expect somewhat more and more answers from the Secretary-General. In fact, six months ago, in the National Assembly, we were appointed under the Law on Protection against Discrimination of an Independent Advocate of the Principle of Equality. Previously, a relatively independent institution has operated within the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to this end and, in the new way, an entirely independent institution or institution outside the Ministry’s reach or interference. If my conduct is correct, the Office is still in some way in the process of setting up or providing the basic conditions for its operation. The institution of the defender is faced with a wide range of tasks and challenges, because it is necessary to know that optimal protection, if not ideal protection, against everyday forms of discrimination is very difficult or virtually impossible to achieve, however. For a short time, the Advocate for the principle of equality addressed me and informed me of his substantive plans for activities in his field of work. He also introduced me to the conditions under which he works, and in some ways he complained to me that there was little listening within the government. I have to admit that I have visited him, that I have also looked at these premises in some way, and I have found that perhaps more could be done for this institution, if we have already chosen it in such a way, that raw legislation has not said that this must be such a form of organisation, but that within the framework of the law it is necessary to ensure respect for non-discrimination and to ensure equal opportunities for all. As a member of this National Assembly, such as Uroš Prikl, as well as, or above all, as a member of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which I also run and am particularly sensitive to such and different problems, and as a distinguished Secretary-General and also Minister, I ask: What, in addition to the recently provided additional EUR 50,000, was in interest to ensure that those optimal, not to say minimum conditions, for the smooth functioning of the Office of the Advocate of the principle of equality? What does the Government intend to do in the future in this regard so that the Office of Counsel can actually develop and revive? What will be the dynamics? When will this full - time start or when will the Institute be fully revived, of course, in the interest of achieving two goals, is zero discrimination and a just society for all? I thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u360	I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anji Kopač Dark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u361	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Member Uroš Prikl, thank you for the question. This is an important new institution in the country. Since 2009, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been trying to prepare and harmonise a political proposal for a law on protection against discrimination that would bring the provisions of the European Directive into line with our legal order. As you mentioned before, we had an advocate who worked first within the General Secretariat and then was transferred, I think in 2012, to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, which was a violation of the European acquis. We had a reminder and we were just before paying the monthly penalty, because one of the key conditions is that the advocate as an organ is independent and independent, especially in terms of financial and also in terms of jurisdiction, i.e. an independent body. That is why the Ministry of Labour has been working on this process of political coordination all the time to establish an independent body. However, we were aware that, during both the financial crisis and later on – of course, the establishment of new authorities in the country was never very welcome – so we were looking for different ways to do this both in conversation with the Ombudsman and with the information officer, because it was a basic objective to provide a single body and, on the other hand, to reduce the costs associated with the administration of that body itself. At the same time, small authorities must have all, enough other administrative jobs to be able to perform their functions, and this is what we wanted to reduce. Unfortunately it was not possible, so we are in the end – since article 50 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination states that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities provides administrative and technical assistance to this body for two years after its establishment; it also implements this Ministry of Labour. This means personnel matters, employment procedures, salaries, human resources plans, financial accounts, so-called accounts, orders, travel orders, IT tasks. As soon as the Advocate of the principle of equality was appointed, we started our activities in order to establish a state-level body, namely, we have prepared appropriate applications for the registration or inclusion of the Advocate of the principle of equality in the register of budgetary users, we have carried out all the necessary activities to obtain a tax, home and registration number at the Institute of Health Brief, many of these activities. We have ensured the preparation of this law as we can. The Ministry of Labour has provided 200 000 euros from its budget line. I'm glad it's today or it's already 9:00. 3. On 1 April 2017, the first job was carried out and on 1 April 2017, the second job was carried out at the point of professional assistance, also on a procedural basis. In short, it is happening – I believe it is too slow. But there were more problems with the rooms themselves. The spaces in our ministry were never meant to be a permanent solution, then we, in the context of what was happening, offered an opportunity, but they are not absolutely appropriate; we, too, our staff, have moved out of these premises and together we are looking for a more suitable solution. However, hereafter: [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u362	I also give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Magi Government. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u363	Thank you. The Secretariat-General was involved in solving this problem in December last month, where we met at a meeting of the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance and Mr Lobnik. At that time, we found that the biggest problem was the spatial problem, that the Ministry of Labour had offered everything it had to offer in accordance with the law, but that the premises had become inappropriate mainly because they had become inadequate for health reasons. I've seen these rooms myself, and we've come to this rescue. First, they were offered at the Bureau of Statistics' former premises, but together we found that they were not suitable for an advocate. Then 8 possible sites were forwarded to the MJU, where he could solve his problem, as to where they would be located. Let me say that his wish was to be together in a building where the Ombudsman is, which is also objectively understandable, given that there are similar content, and could be logistically certain costs or content covered, but unfortunately it was impossible because it was occupied at that time. Let me say that we do not yet have a response from the advocate, which of these sites is suitable for him, despite the fact that he has been provided with 50,000 euros. If you'll excuse me, you could tell the whole thing. Well, that, too. He wants to solve the problem permanently because they were also offered to him in the GSV space, but he said he prefers to wait for the problem to be resolved permanently, not only temporary. We also talked about the number of employees, and we also helped in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour to draw up a human resources plan and enable formal establishment. Of course, only EUR 130 000 has been allocated to him for employment, which we believe has not been exhausted by this time, and he is agreed with the Ministry of Finance to gradually, as he will employ, have [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u364	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. Unfortunately, I don't have any influence on the automatism of turning off the microphone. Mr. Uroš Prikl, would you like to ask an additional question so that we can give Mrs. Secretary of State the opportunity to answer to the end? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u365	Thank you very much. The answers were very comprehensive on the part of both of you. Here I would only appeal to you to put through one agreement if we, as a country, have decided to have such an institution – we could also take another path, but the decision was the same as it was, and of course it should be inspected. It's not a trivial institution. If we want our society to be non-discriminatory and zero tolerance, as I have said in the first place, to every form of discrimination, but really to every form, then there is probably something to be done about it. I believe the appetites aren't too great. At a time when economic growth is a little bit better than it was a few years ago, but we also have to stop a few horses here and keep in mind when some do not have their basic existential issue, including housing, etc. decided that, of course, we can't be wasteful here. However, if we have accepted the institution as such, it has been confirmed through legal provisions, of course it must be inspected and sought for solutions that will be sustainable in the long term. And that we can expect something from such an institution, as this has been the case through the progressive development of the Anti-Corruption Commission, and also the information authorities could probably count something else here. So in conclusion, if you wish, you can explain something else to me, but otherwise I appeal to all of you, through dialogue, to find a solution through conversation that will be good, not just for the institutions that are involved here, but especially for the people who suffer injustices daily. That is why this institution is also established, and I believe that only in a way that will help people in difficulty will it achieve its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u366	I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Government. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u367	I answered you more or less, and I also gave you information about what we did. I absolutely agree with you that this institution should be established in this way or that it should be allowed all the conditions, we are constantly in contact with it, unfortunately things are going too slowly. We would also like them to move faster and, as you said, to ensure equality for citizens from, of course, institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Cuz will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u369	Thanks again! Today I am asking very local questions. After the emergency centre, the restoration of the old bridge is scheduled. I must say that the topic is very topical and is closer to rebuilding the bridge, there are of course more comments, protests and critics, but not only countries, but also local authorities and all other competent authorities. What's this all about? The following companies applied for the tender for these works and the reconstruction of the Ptuj bridge: Euro-Asphalt and Pondus, Map-trade and Pomgrad. Euro-Asfalt, d.o.o., and Pondus, d.o.o., was worth EUR 3 million and had the shortest closure period for the bridge due to different technology compared to the remaining two offers. The map-trade assessed this investment and made an offer of EUR 4 million and a closure to the bridge for up to one year. Pomgrad, d.d., was selected to charge €4.5 million for the renovation and to close the bridge for the longest time possible. They've been talking about 18 months. The unelected tenderer should not have sufficient good references, which in practice means that the invitation to tender has, of course, been made on the skin of Pomgrad, d.d., and should therefore, if possible, apply the anti-corruption clause. Otherwise, the City Hall of Ptuj is not supposed to have this interest because it will earn quite a bit of money by paying the contribution to the road closure and regulation. The fact is that Pomgrad, d. d., has too many construction sites in Slovenia, even on the missing part of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway. This is why it is envisaged to rebuild the bridge, that is, the old bird bridge, only the one-shift work. This means that transport across the entire Ptuj will be severely compromised, and this will also cause a lot of problems for the region. It starts at the beginning of the tourist season; as you know, Ptuj is a very nice city – and you are invited – and this will greatly impress tourist offers. Tourists will be confused about how to get to the center of the city, the problems will also be with thermals, with spas and could still be listed. I don't even want to list the emergency transports of paramedics, firefighters, all of this is going to be a one-word collapse. People will spend an hour to two hours more a day because they will have to drive by traffic and all the other roads, and the contractor also admits that until now he does not even know how to deal with some reorganisation of traffic, because the fact is that the Puhov bridge, that is, this newer bridge, will not withstand all these burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u370	I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u371	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, Member, for the question raised. Before answering the specific question concerning the specific bridge, I would like to answer a little more in general about the issue of maintenance and renovation of bridge facilities in the Republic of Slovenia. It is on our national network, i.e. in the management of the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, about a thousand 400 bridge facilities, which have more than 5 metres of light. These bridge facilities are recommended to be repaired every 25 to 30 years and, after about 100 to 120 years, they usually need to be replaced with new facilities, since the approximate life expectancy of these facilities is that much. In the event of maintenance of the facilities at these specified time intervals, approximately 47 facilities should be repaired each year. However, since the Infrastructure Directorate has had insufficient resources for this purpose in recent years, there are currently many more facilities in Slovenia that need to be reconstructed or replaced with new ones. Due to the lack of resources, particularly in 2010-2014, in times of the worst economic crisis, the Directorate, for example, was able to repair only two facilities per year and restrictions on traffic were also established on some bridge facilities. In this mandate, however, we have managed to significantly increase the resources available to us for maintenance and investment in road infrastructure, so that the Directorate can also carry out several of these renovations, and in 2017, these renovations are envisaged at the bridge facilities, i.e. the start or completion of them, at 26 sites. Work is currently being done across the Drava River in Vuhred, including the reconstruction of the Drava bridge and the reconstruction of the train, and there are no works in line with the timetable and complications in the implementation of the works. In the plan, as you have already said, there is also a larger renovation or maintenance work, the restoration of the bridge on the Drava River, this is the old Puhov bridge. This renewal is expected to start on 15 May 2017 when reconstruction work begins. The contractor has already been introduced into work, currently in the process of drawing up a deadline plan which will also include the necessary sequence of works. I would not comment here on these claims regarding the choice of the contractor. I am sure that the procedures have been carried out correctly, if they have not been, the possibilities have certainly been used for possible complaints. I do not know whether this has occurred or not in this case; however, it is now envisaged that work will begin, and it is envisaged that, as of June this June, the bridge will be completely closed for transport and appropriate parallel network operations will be regulated. But I will also, given that I have also been alerted to the problem of this closure by others, in detail require more detailed information on the dynamics of these works and how many of these works can be carried out in a way that will make the time of this closure as short as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u372	I give the word to Mr Andre Couch again because he has a request to explain the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u373	Otherwise, I will thank you for your reply, but look at the difference of €3 million and, on the other hand, the selected contractor for €4.5 million. In fact, we could build a manna for the Ptuj Emergency Center, and there's a circle next to the extra. I just think it's very untransparent and irrational that we're paying over a million and a half. When I first saw that it was somehow the purpose or that 4.5 million euros would be spent on it, I expected and thought that it would be possible to build a whole new bridge; maybe a little more would be added, but not that we would have a whole Ptuj in a cramp for 18 months now. I'm glad you're admitting yourself that this is going to be very problematic. Civil initiatives have already been organised on Ptuj, which includes both the people of the Municipality of Ptuj and the surrounding areas, we can say the whole region that warns about this. I think you're familiar with this, or you're working at the Ministry. People are not yet so aware of this, but from day to day there are more angry responses, e - mails, field visits. I really suggest that if this goes on, that we throw a million and a half euros out of the window, and that we go this way at least so that it doesn't lock up for 18 months, because then Ptuj will be a ghost town and I won't let Ptujčany and Ptujčians do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u374	In order to complete my answer, I give the floor to Minister Peter Gasperšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u375	Thank you very much. As it is said, I will take a closer look at what can be done to make this prison as short as possible. We know that certain works can also be carried out in a way that traffic across the bridge is still taking place. I'm thinking mostly of the work on the lower structure here. I am sure that the experts have already thought this through, but as I say, in this matter I will require more detailed information. However, I can say that this reconstruction of this bridge will be difficult, because the bearing structure, including the support in the river itself, will be renewed. As a result, the recovery period as well as such an investment value shall be as long as it takes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u376	Would you like to propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this subject at its next meeting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u377	Maybe you'll be a little angry, Mr. Chairman. I'm just going to say procedurally that we insist on this, and we don't agree that the work on the bird bridge is only carried out for 8 hours a day. We will not agree to this; so we demand at least two-shift work and we will not give up on it. As a result, we will shorten the deadline when this bridge is closed. Of course we're all for the development that something's going on. I'm not going to give this procedural today, but in the event of any misunderstandings, or that what has been said today will not hold up, and I will ask this question from month to month. However, in order to satisfy the procedural requirements, I suggest that we proceed with the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I must warn you in good faith that such abuses are not permitted because they occur too often in the National Assembly. Regardless, I give the floor to Mrs Violeta Tomić, who will ask the question of the question of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Magi. Diane Jedhan. Here you go, Mrs. Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u379	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In Slovenia, at the same time as the privatisation of all major agri-food companies, much has begun to talk about strengthening food chains. This is absurd, but we privatized virtually all companies from processing to sales, while at the same time we started promoting Slovenian food, locally produced food and so on. The problems of Agrokor and his related uncertain fate, Mercator, have once again demonstrated the catastrophic dimensions of this privatisation, which we have consistently strongly opposed in the United Left. In short, if Agrokor falls, Mercator falls, and if Mercator falls, all suppliers, workers fall, and, finally, our farmers, and as a result, our singing local self-sustainment. In 2015, a little after Mercator was sold, you yourself said that Mercator has become a tool for breaking Croatian food products into the Slovenian market. I will not mention here statistics on the increase in imports of food products, which I believe you are familiar with. However, this would be problematic in relation to the level of self-sustainment. At the 17th session of the Committee on Agriculture, your Secretary of State has responded with flat-rate arguments that I am wrong because we are very well self-sustained with milk, meat, eggs and honey. Well, we looked at the SURS data and we saw that, from 2000 to 2015, the level of egg self-sustainment dropped from 97.7% to 93%, while the self-sustainment of honey fell from 111% to 70% at that time, while the self-sustainment of meat fell from 91% to 73% at that time. So the situation is definitely getting worse, and here we are talking only about sectors that are supposed to prove how well we are doing, so self-sustainment with vegetables, fruit and cereals will not be mentioned at all, where the situation is definitely devastating. In the meantime, key stakeholders in the food chain are in the hands of the tycoons that these companies treat as tokens at the table of the global casino of capitalism. The collapse of Agrokor will, of course, also lead to the collapse of Mercator. Our government has been monitoring all the time, and only after they temporarily resolved Croats by adopting lex Agrokor, have you come out with lex Mercator, but this law will have no effect on Mercator's trade policy or on decisions on what Mercator's owner will do with the company itself, which is now his private property and this private property is supposed to be the world and untouchable. That's why I'm asking you: What measures do you intend to take to prevent Agrokor from taking Mercator in his fall? How will you ensure that Slovenian products reach the final consumer? How are you going to raise your self-sustainment rate? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u380	I give my answer to the Minister of Magic. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u381	Dear Member, talking to you is always a special honor. In general, here's the thing. Not all Slovenian food industries are in foreign hands. If you look at anything, let's say if you look at Slovenian dairy; indeed, the biggest Slovenian dairy is in foreign hands and the rest of Slovenian dairy, as far as I know, are not in foreign hands. Why did I start with Slovenian dairy? Because the production of raw milk is the most important activity within agriculture and here, the honourable Member, the numbers are only growing, growing and growing. Because I believe I'll get another question then, I'll read it to you a little later, and I'll be happy to read it. The second most important activity is grain production. Although grain production, you know, unfortunately takes place under the open sky, you can see how difficult it is to grow, for the second time in two years, a century’s cold — before that phenomenon was not to that extent. However, I must point out that I do not have the final data for 2016 because statistics have only published the data by 2015, and it is the production of cereals, for example, from 2010 – why I use this term, since I was the first minister since then, and there is also a greater responsibility – from 568 thousand tonnes to 624 thousand tonnes. It is interesting that even the vegetables that are so much talked about were spoken of again, according to the food balance of the Statistical Office, which you yourself mentioned, in 2010 60 thousand tonnes, in 2015 92 thousand tonnes. However, the level of self-sustainment itself does not go away immediately. The reason is simple: consumption in Slovenia, which is probably good, is also growing. The diet balance for meat alone says what you said. If we look at it since 2010, we find that the fall in pig production and pig meat in Slovenia is mainly affected, and in general the species remain as stable as they are: either watching cattle or watching poultry, which is important, and here we do not actually have as many fluctuations. As far as Mercator's concerned. I wish that when I warned — I was not competent, but I had the right to warn the government, and that is why the government has dealt with it several times, as well as publicly. I'm sorry that there were no more people who thought as loudly as I did. I myself realized that banks could not be owners of companies or could not be owners of companies, but I was aware of something else. One is if your owner is a strategic buyer who, for example, is also a store and has no preference for products of any nationality. There's something else, though, if your owner owns a food company from a neighboring country. If you look at Mercator's shelves, unfortunately, sales data – because I am not available, as you yourself said, this is a private business – what happened in numbers with the sale of Slovenian food and what happened to numbers when foreign food grew. But I see what I see on the shelves. Trade marks, where the consumer does not see so clearly who the manufacturer is, have largely changed the address where they are produced. The address in most cases is no longer Slovenian. While trademarks owned by companies producing in Slovenia were also left on shelves. Nevertheless, what is interesting, Slovenian food production has found contact with the consumer. She found him in such a way that she was more present on some other trade shelves, as can be seen. You can see the growth. And interestingly, Slovenian food production significantly increased exports. From 2010 to today, I think exports have increased slightly by 38%, which in practice means that 1 in 4 food exports is already for foreign purposes. Why are we talking so publicly about finding local food? The answer is simple. We consumers are kings, sometimes we realize that, sometimes we don't. If I, as a consumer, am looking for Slovenian food in Mercator, Spar, Tuš, Lidlu or elsewhere, and if I am willing to replace the trade chain, if I do not find it, believe me, all owners will require from their stores that Slovenian food is present. But we all have to do it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u382	Mrs Violeta Tomič, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u383	Look, Minister, we once owned practically all the major enterprises within the food chain. They were not privatized because they were doing bad business — far from it! In most cases it was a very successful company. They privatized themselves because of some ideology that says that it is imperative to privatize everything because the private person will take better care of it. In short, this is why both the current government and all the governments so far are responsible. You may recall that in the United Left almost two years ago, during the privatisation of Zita, we called for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and we have suggested in our conclusions, inter alia, that your ministry prepare a strategy to identify measures to address the negative consequences of the privatisation of Slovenian food chains and a strategy to raise self-sustainment, focusing on the access of farmers and the food processing industry to the final consumer. At the time, you objected by saying that we already have enough paper in this country, but today, when we see what's happening to us, we could use a lot of these papers. In short, we can only monitor and hope that Todoric's downfall will not also mean the collapse of Slovenian agriculture, which we have placed so beautifully in his hands. Now I want to know: Is this lex Mercator you adopted last week in the government all you can do to protect our agriculture and food processing industry? How will you ensure that Slovenian producers get their place on foreign merchant shelves? Are you planning to adopt a longer-term strategy on dealing with these issues, or will you react ad hoc from case to case? And, please, not by a resolution, let's ensure food for tomorrow, which you accepted six years ago and at that time sold out and privatized everything left of the food industry. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u384	I'm giving mag a word to complete the answer. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u385	I am very sorry that you did not have the opportunity to participate in the resolution.Let us ensure food for tomorrow, because something beautiful and unusual happened in the National Assembly. I think that it has been unanimously adopted as well as implementing documents, which have been adopted by the Government and then we act. This resolution shall apply until 2020. I hope that we will not have three more identical resolutions on the same subject, because we expect the same effect, to be adopted and adopted again. In fact, more needs to be done, and it is possible to write a little less paper. That's the first thing. Secondly, unlike you, I have a slightly different view of ownership – unlike the right. I'm not saying it's just private property. To some extent, it is irrelevant to me whether ownership is state or private. It's an important effect to me. The effect we are observing, however, is that in fact people have a job, that economic societies also have growth, that they can grow in a sustainable way, and that they adhere to all the standards that they are. We have cases in Slovenia where companies owned by Slovenia operate phenomenally well. Unfortunately, we also have very different cases. Just one example, an honourable Member you probably know. The Ljubljana dairy was not sold at the time of this government, but some other government, in which I – I think – was an opposition member and even in a similar chair where you are sitting today, I was sitting myself. Interesting! When, including the cooperative system, the Slovenian owners sold it – what happened to this particular dairy? In a few months she switched to exclusively Slovenian purchases of raw materials, and before that, Slovenian owners did not require this dairy. This dairy is now growing and is growing so much that it is only this year's opinion that the Director's information will have 70 new jobs. As for Mercator, I hope that the Croatian problem of Agrokor will be solved mainly by Croats. There are 40,000 people working there, and as a neighbouring country, we must be interested that the situation is right and that people live normally or that they live well. This can also be our selfish example. It is good that Mercator is protected by some clauses, some are sales; others, more importantly, are banking. What matters, however, is what you decide about the law tomorrow, whatever you call it, is the following: it must be avoided that it does not come in an unfair way – because it cannot in all honesty because Mercator is protected – in an unfair way until Mercator is further burdened by an insolvent mother or subordinate society. I would very much like to see this law adopted tomorrow, because this would provide some additional protection for the position of Slovenian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u386	Would you like to make a proposal to hold a discussion in the National Assembly on the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u387	Of course, it is clear that the lex Mercator you have made is more or less a pear move that the Government wants to make an impression that something is working, after something or everything has been done by the Croats. In short, self-sustainment with food is largely poor; packaged in Slovenia does not mean that it is produced in Slovenia. In short, even on milk, eggs, beef and honey, because so we say good, we can see a slow downward trend. We sold our biggest retailer for change to a tycoon, which received credit for purchase from some suspicious, as you yourself said, international funds and, of course, the new owner immediately increased the volume of supplier products that are in its ownership structure, at the expense of our suppliers – someone else. This has consequences for the entire food chain. So we finance advertising campaigns from the state budget, in which we promote domestic goods, which is nice and right, you know, I do not object, but all domestic food companies have sold these and previous governments for change. And the only reason for the sale was that it was necessary to privatize, as I said. And now you have introduced a law to prevent this new owner from drawing behind him our entire food chain with our agriculture and our self-sustainment. You know, Todorić doesn't care about our agriculture, he only cares about his profits and nothing else. And as much profit as possible – which is then forged, of course, on the shoulders of poorly paid workers, and on nicknames, and on price cuts to suppliers and, of course, on the extension of payment deadlines. You also mentioned the safeguard clauses, which is all good and good, but I am very concerned that in September all the restrictions mentioned in relation to the exhaustion of the company and the dismissal of workers who were imposed on Agrokor at his purchase will fall. This will have consequences on the entire food chain and it will feel like if I borrow your advertising slogan, from villas to forks to ours. That is why, of course, I demand a general debate on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u388	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Health, Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u389	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings again to all present. Dear Madam Secretary! Since independence, our health system has been in pain for the under-empathy of the sick. Politics still manages the salaries of the best-paid doctors, and the fate of the patients and other public health workers is of little interest to her. This is also clear from the recent proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which contains many ethically controversial provisions. Thus, the bill leaves out the need to treat all those poor, whose treatment is still dependent only on volunteers and voluntary health outpatients. The poor and the less wealthy obviously have no interest in health policy or in the majority of those in health care who hike for profits at the expense of the sick. At one of the meetings of the Parliamentary Committee on Health, your former secretary even stated that the problem of voluntary health outpatients does not concern health care at all, even though the health system must provide access to treatment for all people, including the poor. That's why I want to know: Will you, when and how will you ensure access to treatment for every citizen or person who stays in Slovenia for a long time? And secondly: When will voluntary clinics in Slovenia no longer be needed? At the same time, I would like to remind you of another, by health policy, forgotten group of patients, this is about tetraplegics that need an outpatient respiratory treatment, which is currently not foreseen between compulsory health insurance rights, so these patients are left to themselves and their own. As no payment is foreseen for these services, public institutions which should be the last to take care, such as the Soč University Rehabilitation Institute, do not accept them for treatment or simply reject such medical treatment. So I'm wondering: Or when and when will you also take care of the rights of tetraplegics to respiratory outpatient treatment? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u390	I give the floor to Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister for Health. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u391	Hello, everyone, once again. Dear Member Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, thank you also for these three questions. First of all, the answer to the first question about access to treatment is that every citizen or all those who live in Slovenia do not have the so-called compulsory health insurance. It is precisely the new proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia will be obliged to ensure that we have access to the universal basket, and, of course, all those populations who have either applied for asylum or temporarily reside in Slovenia, or for any other reason have not so far entered into compulsory health insurance and thus have no possibility and access to health care. However, let me say here that no one in Slovenia is left without medical treatment, especially when it needs it. For this reason, the health system ensures access to treatment with rights belonging to insured persons, but if they are unprotected, they have the right to urgent treatment. The Ministry of Health, on the basis of various laws and professional judgements, provides for the payment of emergency health services to persons who, for various reasons or circumstances, do not have health insurance. The medical facilities of such a patient shall be treated, provided and billed to the Ministry of Health, which shall also be settled. For these health services, the Ministry of Health paid over €400,000 in health services over the past year. Thus there is no one, even if there is no health insurance, a reduced right to emergency treatment. The new bill also provides for insurance for all children who do not have it for such or other reasons today, at least according to the Health Insurance Office. With regard to the Pro Bono outpatient system, I should say that practically Pro Bono outpatients are also established elsewhere, in other countries, essentially independent of health systems, they are generally established within civil society. As we know, in Slovenia they operate in Ljubljana, Koper and Maribor. The founders are different, usually urban municipalities, Karitas, Red Cross, Slovenian philanthropy and other institutions. It should be said, however, that in addition to the services they provide, these outpatients also use a huge or large amount of advice in the sense that they tell and help these people to arrange compulsory insurance because it turns out that many people also do not know which institution to turn to and which parts of which they could also be insured would, say, pay for these services and insurance by the state or the budget. Since 2013, our Ministry has, through a public call for the co-financing of these aid, counselling and non-compulsory health insurance programmes, funded these outpatients under €160,000; we also finance and distribute certain money for other non-governmental organisations. Unprotected persons are thus helped by people in these infirmaryes to move into the public health system. Even with regard to the right of tetraplegics to open-air ambulatory treatment. Let me say that this issue was raised at a meeting in Portorož on 19 April 2017 and representatives of UKC Ljubljana, URI-Soča, the Association of Paraplegics agreed to jointly prepare a clinical path containing this medical treatment [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u392	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Time's up. Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u393	Thank you very much. I will be happy if this problem of tetraplegics is resolved, and on the other hand, I am very sorry, but what you say is that every person has access to treatment with us is not true and voluntary ambulances are not organized because of the joy of volunteers, but because of the need for poor people who do not come to health services. The new proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act also binds the payment of this medical compensation to the fact that a person receives financial social assistance. However, it must be said that in our case, a health policy from a person living below the poverty line, for example, with 293 euros a month and not entitled to any financial social assistance, expects him to contribute 30 euros a month for supplementary health insurance because, if he does not pay supplementary health insurance, he does not have access to compulsory health insurance. The proposal on the Health Care Act, however, is expected to contribute EUR 20 per month to the health compensation. If it does not pay, there are no compulsory health insurance rights and it can only be found in a voluntary infirmary. In the proposal for a law, the ethically controversial charging of the intended medical compensation is for all those living below the poverty line. In Slovenia, unfortunately, after the independence of health care, a system was created that we could fear as children in Alan Ford. In this comic book, Superhik takes the poor to give to the rich. Also, in Slovenia, the wealthier pay a smaller share of their income for public health than is paid by the poor and the less wealthy. I hope so, Madam Minister, that you will ask your colleagues more precisely and try to solve this problem because you are obviously not getting the right information.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u394	I give the floor to Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, to complete my reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u395	Indeed, the current system of payment of the same nominal supplementary health insurance premiums is not a solid way of raising funds. That's what the analysis has already found out. This is also why the proposal for a Health Care and Insurance Act is aimed at reshaping this insurance because it is true that the current EUR 28 out of EUR 500 or pension represents a significantly higher percentage than EUR 28 means, say, I don't know, of EUR 8 or EUR 10 000 gross wages. That is why we now propose a different range of this health benefit in order to relieve the minimum wage for 8 euros to pay instead of 28, 20 euros, in order for those who have, say, 5 times the average wage, for example, over 7,8 000 euros, to pay 75 euros per town, which would be a more solidarity way of raising funds. With regard to the proposal mentioned above, as you said, it also applies to the social poor, as will the country or budget or budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u396	Mag. Bojana Muršič will raise the question of the post, first to the Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnikar and later to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u397	Thank you very much for this late hour, Vice President, for your word. Respectable three ministers, a minister and a few colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns both ministers and the specific problem faced by the State Election Commission, which organises regular annual working meetings of the presidents, secretaries, deputy constituencies and electoral committees. The Presidents of the District Election Commissions and their deputies of the Electoral Commissions shall be appointed by the Judges, while the Secretaries, the deputies of those committees shall be appointed by officials and shall, as a rule, be employed by administrative units. However, the Law on Elections in the National Assembly provides that the function is honorable and that they have the right to adequate compensation, but only during elections or referendums and when these electoral activities are carried out. These working meetings, organised by the National Election Commission, are held as a rule in May or June, scheduled this year for May 25th, that is Thursday. At the same time, I cannot overlook the fact that in the past week we have also confirmed a new law or amendment of the Electoral Law to the National Assembly, which brings quite a few novelties. And why am I talking about this? The problem is that some officials in administrative units or supervisors in the courts require their subordinates – that is, judges and officials working or working on election committees – to benefit from their regular annual leave in the event of a consultation. The latter means that a number of judges or officials prefer to refuse to attend this meeting because they are not recognised for their official absence or for any other form of excused absence from work or participation in the consultation. As practical in all areas, we also face new challenges and challenges in this area. This would address issues on 25 May regarding the availability of all voters for disabled persons, the abolition of cash accounts, the news about eNotifications to voters and a number of other things. That's why I'm asking you here: How do you see the need or obligation to participate in the annual work of the National Election Commission in order to implement electoral legislation in a uniform manner? Do they agree with the thought that for such cases of counseling, education, and training of judges and officials, we should consider some form of excused absence from work? Do they believe that it would not be legal to include training in some activity of judges and officials and other members of the electoral commissions in the conduct of elections, which is the most important democratic process? Thank you very much for your answer so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u398	I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar, and they have five minutes together. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u399	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, thank you for this question. As you correctly point out, the Law on Elections in the National Assembly provides that the election of Members shall be conducted and conducted by electoral committees, and shall consist, as you have said, of representatives of judges and officials. It is clearly defined that the function of the electoral authority is honorable; although it is an honorary function, the State Election Commission guarantees for this purpose the right to adequate compensation, which it itself provides, of course, in accordance with the Ministry of Finance. As you can correctly tell, it's 25. 5. For this year, this traditional consultation was convened in Brdo pri Kranj, before the elections, which will be extended this time also due to other changes that are taking place in this area of the elections. Of course, secretaries will also attend this meeting because they come from administrative units as a rule, and we also see whether it is possible that participation in such a consultation can actually be regarded as some kind of work obligation. In view of the fact that a public servant can be referred to education in the context of the performance of his or her work obligation, if this relates to the fulfilment of the statutory obligations of his or her regular work obligations, then we do not see any reservation here, as otherwise, the administrative unit from which officials normally come shall carry out a number of support electoral tasks and therefore they must know this procedure. I do not see any reservations about such an education actually being carried out through a referral to education, because only because someone would later participate in an electoral commission where the function is honorable and that would also be compensated would not actually be possible. However, here we see a link, this referral is possible, as officials must also know the electoral legislation and all those supporting tasks that they must actually carry out in relation to this electoral law. In this case, from the point of view of the workers in administrative units, we consider such a referral to be possible, meaningful, as well as providing additional knowledge for the performance of work obligations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u400	The Minister of Justice of the Magnificent has the floor. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u401	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, my friend! The situation is somewhat, but not so much, different from those of the judges, unlike those of the administrative units. First, on the first part of your question. Of course, I personally strongly support the participation or activity of judges, vice-presidents of the District Commissions, and such a system and approach must be upgraded more than limited. I also agree that changes to education legislation are necessary. You know that the Ministry of Justice cannot travel judges to any education, and as you have rightly found out, this is in the hands of the Presidents of individual courts. The Law on Judicial Service and the Special Rules on the criteria for the duration, cases and conditions of leave of judges do not provide for a special express right to be absent for the purposes of education under the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. However, this same Regulation provides the legal basis for a judge to have the right to exceptional paid leave and to certain other matters and obligations. We are convinced that this is the appropriate legal basis for the work of the Ministry. The decision is, of course, still in the hands of the President of the Court, according to the time limits, orders, hearings and other obligations that an individual judge participating in the District Election Commissions has. In short, I will say that we will do an informal inquiry at the Ministry, because clearly the practice is different between individual district and higher courts. As it is said, in short, the basis for paid exceptional leave exists in sub-laws, and obviously – your question points to this – is not being carried out evenly. We cannot cut into this directly, but we can have some kind of intermediate communication option in order to come up with a positive response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u402	Mag. Bojana Muršič, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u403	Thank you very much. I must say, in these late hours, I am glad that we are finally somewhere positive, and I see that the interest is both on the side of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior – or the Ministry of Public Administration – I apologize. I am particularly pleased, Minister of Public Administration, that you are thinking this way. I believe that in some way you will do just as the Minister of Justice will do, that he will call and do some inquiry, or I may see that a notice or instruction to these secretaries who carry out these electoral activities will be given to the Chief of Staff or to the Chief of Staff. So, once again, I thank you both for the positive note, and I believe that in the end everyone will be pleased, and in particular the State Election Commission, which will hand over these new experiences, which will have to be taken into account by the District Election Commission in its work, because the new legislation and innovations are very important for each part of these electoral commissions and secretaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u404	I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnikar. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u405	Thank you. I am also pleased that you have pointed out this issue, because these positions I have said are views based on the regulation of this area, and I think that without any reservation we are also communicating them with all administrative units; especially at the moment when there is actually a number of significant changes to electoral legislation. Therefore, participation in this consultation might be broader, not just those directly involved in these electoral bodies. Since I've made this public here, it's a public statement, and I pledge to communicate with the chiefs of the administrative units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u406	Thank you very much. We have one last question. Mrs Marija Bačič will ask the question of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u407	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, hello to all those who insist, and indeed the final question. I hope we can work this out. Dear Minister Peter Gasperšič, I ask you - although you have already answered part of this question about the registration of mopeds today, this is a very topical question and many people are turning to us. Surely, I am sure that you are also aware of some of the problems that occur on the ground. Since May 1, mopeds with structural speeds of up to 25 kilometres per hour will have to be registered. The problems are related to older moped models where the moped holder does not have the relevant documentation of its origin or ownership and it is therefore necessary to first prove ownership by a specific finding procedure. As a rule in practice, this means proving the ownership of mopeds with the help of witnesses, and there may be problems if the moped owner and witnesses were not a full-year-old moped maker at the time of the production of the moped. The latter means that the evidence procedure will therefore not be successful and, consequently, it will not be possible to register the moped. Problems in practice may also occur with moped holders who do not have a type-approval certificate or whose mopeds are made before 1993, as they will first have to demonstrate the compatibility of the moped with a specific examination. This is linked to relatively high costs. The estimate is around €90. It is known that new costs related to registration, technical inspection, insurance and so on will be incurred for moped owners. Mr Minister, you yourself have made certain public commitments at the time of the adoption of the latest amendment to the Motor Vehicle Act to adopt measures to reduce the burden on moped owners. You talked about the possibility of extending the period of frequency of technical inspections, the possibility of multi-annual moped insurance, introducing possibilities for mopeds to be technically inspected on the ground. Since registration has been possible since 6 April, I ask you, Minister: What are your information from administrative units regarding the conduct of mandatory registrations of mopeds in practice? What are the most common complications? How does the state help moped owners solve these? When can moped holders expect these measures to be implemented in their favour, for which you have also taken your own public stand at the meeting of the National Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u408	Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u409	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, too, for the question raised, honourable Member. I must say that I consider it a special honor for us to conclude today's round of questions. However, since this topic of mopeds is up to 25 kilometres per hour, it shows that today, both at the beginning and at the end of this debate, I have received a question on this subject. Although something has already been explained, I'm going to go over all the information again for completeness. In short, it is true that since the adoption of the law and now that these registration procedures have begun, we have also received a number of information from the Ministry that there are complications in certain cases, and that is why we have been informed about the matter in more detail at the Ministry itself. From the Unit Administration Service at the Ministry of Public Administration, we received a notice that, although they started registering mopeds at this speed up to 25 kilometres per hour on 6 April this year. In this notice, we are informed that these procedures were mostly ongoing, without complications, and that more than half of these procedures should be carried out following a preliminary identification procedure. In short, in those cases where mopeds do not have all the papers arranged due to the older date of their manufacture. If we look at what were the most common complications encountered in the registration and technical examinations of these mopeds, we can bring them down into four groups, five in fact. In fact, the owners usually do not have all the evidence of the origin and ownership of the moped or do not have it at all if it really is older vehicles. The owners shall then not have certificates of conformity of the vehicle or declaration of conformity of the vehicle. In an uneven way, these specific findings are being carried out to demonstrate the indisputability of the ownership of the moped. Then the mopeds in the register of registered vehicles do not have recorded data on the maximum design speed. Then there were questions about the tax treatment of these mopeds themselves. To remedy and mitigate these and other complications, our Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance, has provided a number of clarifications, guidance and answers to the questions that we have sent with special circuits to all stakeholders, which are in any way related to the registration of mopeds. This means those organisations that carry out the registrations and also the administrative units themselves. At our ministry, we have also prepared these answers for all moped owners to the most common questions, which are also published on our website. Even before this possible registration of mopeds, where the design speed is limited to 25 kilometres per hour, the legal basis for carrying out technical checks, including on the ground, was also regulated — what was promised even when this legislation was adopted. As a result, a system that supports the operation of these technical inspections in the field is also being developed. I can also mention that insurance companies, for example, have for a long time provided longer-term insurance, so that it is not necessary to regulate this insurance every year. With regard to this change in frequency, i.e. the extension of the time when mopeds need to be carried out, I can say that the proposed legislative changes have already been introduced in the proposal for a new Motor Vehicle Act, for which we have already held a public debate and have been already in inter-departmental coordination. It is therefore envisaged that this law will be adopted in the second half of this year, so that this commitment, so that technical checks for these mopeds are carried out for five years, will be properly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u410	Mrs Marija Bachič, you have the floor to ask for an explanation to complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u411	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your comprehensive response. I think people have heard that we're going against them. But I have one more question. Thus, the official conducting the registration procedure has the discretionary right to decide which evidence has to be made, to prove ownership and to go against the customer; not to demand what is impossible, I will say, but simply what it can bring, to prove that it is indeed the owner of this moped, and to assist in this registration, that everything is as successful as possible. I see that you are also going against people with all that you are also giving to the administrative units with circulars, and I hope that we will indeed succeed in making these mopeds that we have adopted this law for safety also successfully registered and will safely drive with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u412	Minister Gaszperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u413	Thank you. Actually, it's a very short response. Yeah, it's true. Since it is essentially a matter of introducing some new procedures concerning these mopeds that have not been implemented so far, there has been a practice of different practices, and we have then consolidated these cases with these instructions, which were then transmitted to all those who carry out these registration procedures. Thus, we are no longer informed about such different treatments of identical cases. I can also say that we are working very hard on our own at the Ministry to put this law into practice – that these mopeds are properly recorded, that drivers are using safety helmets – because we estimate that they will also contribute to the safer participation of these players in transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-24-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u414	I thank the President of the Government, the Ministers, the Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I hereby terminate this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow on Tuesday 25. 4. 2017, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at nine o'clock. Thank you very much and very nice evening, everyone. Goodbye.
