ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Welcome to the 31st meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Anja Žibert, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. Franc Trček from 13.30 p.m., Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec to 7 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Hanžek to 1 p.m., Mr. Janko Weber, Luka Mesec from 18:00 p.m., Mr. Jan Mahnič, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar from 16:00 p.m. and Mr. Jernej Vrtovac from 16:00 p.m. I welcome everyone. We're moving to 17. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission notes that, in the light of the information provided by the Member States, this Decision is without prejudice to the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular to the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as the provisions of the Treaty on the On the basis of Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted the Rebalance of the Programme of Work and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2017 in agreement with the National Assembly. In order to further explain the work programme's balance and the financial plan, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, namely the Director of the Energy Agency, Mag. Bugs of the Year. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On the basis of the Energy Law, the National Assembly shall meet at its meeting on 22. 11. 2016 gave its consent to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2017. It defines our tasks, as well as the responsibilities and objectives of the Agency as a national energy regulator. We are looking carefully and responsibly for ways and solutions that will help meet all the objectives set, while recognizing the importance of our tasks for all energy market stakeholders for the Agency remains at the heart of the customer. Following the adoption and initiation of the implementation of that work programme, there have been certain facts which have not been taken into account in the preparation of the work programme for 2017, and these facts relate mainly to the approval of the support scheme by the European Commission on the promotion of electricity production from renewable sources. The role of the Energy Agency in this area is to issue declarations and support, while at the same time exercising intensive control over the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the Energy Act as regards the conditions set out in the declarations and the decisions on the receipt of support. At the end of 2016, in line with the confirmation of the European Commission, we immediately launched the first public call for proposals to which we received almost 300 applications, showing a very strong market interest in the new investment in renewable energy production. This fact, however, has led to the fact that the actual Energy Agency cannot carry out the existing number of personnel of the control procedures, which it has also set up with a work programme already approved by the National Assembly. In our work programme we set ourselves up to do between 400 and 450 annual controls, because we want to achieve a representative sample that shows whether there are actually any anomalies on this market. Another area of this kind, which causes a great deal of the Agency's tasks or the increased scope of the Agency's tasks, is constantly emerging new tasks in amending European energy legislation. The European network codes are very intensive, these are European regulations, and in every code there are some additional new tasks for the Energy Agency. These could not be foreseen in the currently adopted programme of work of the Energy Agency for 2017. As part of last year's work programme and the Agency's financial plan, we therefore propose to the National Assembly to confirm the balance and thus the additional 5 jobs we need to carry out effectively all statutory tasks. In doing so, I should stress that the potential impact of the proposed additional employment on electricity and natural gas consumers is very small, almost negligible. The Energy Agency shall be financed by compensation from both operators, i.e. the transmission system operator and the natural gas transmission system operator, and those proposed jobs shall be reflected in the final price paid by the customer in the electricity or natural gas account. The increase in the necessary resources for new jobs will not be reflected until 2019 when the new regulatory period begins, and let me stress that this increase at the annual level will amount to EUR 0.034 in electricity supply, i.e. less than 5 cents per year, and only about 10 cents per year in gas supply. Therefore, the impact on consumers is very small or negligible, even though effective implementation of tasks can achieve significantly greater effects on the market itself and on consumers. The tasks, roles and responsibilities of the Agency and the objectives of the work programme 2017 and the relevant balance are clearly set out. We are aware of the importance of our tasks from the point of view of the country, businesses and each individual customer, so we will continue to look for the right solutions and answers and to carry out our tasks professionally, efficiently and responsibly to all stakeholders. I thank you for your understanding and once again propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a rebalancing of the work of the Energy Agency for 2017 be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The work programme and the financial plan were considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the parent working body, which proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a decision on an agreement on the Rebalance of the work programme and the financial plan of the Agency for Energy for 2017. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to its President, Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u4	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Mrs. Year, colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space shall meet at its 29th meeting, on 1. 6. 2017 Rebalance of the Work Programme and Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2017, considered as the parent working body by 25. 4. 2017 The Energy Agency transmitted to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 399(5) of the Energy Act. Introductory explanations and the main reasons for the proposed Rebalance of work programme and financial plan of the Agency for Energy for 2017 were given by the Director of the Duška Year Agency, who explained that, following the adoption of the work programme of the Agency, there had been major changes in the definition of the scope of tasks in certain work areas of the Agency, in particular in the area of promoting the production of electricity from renewable sources, which had not yet been foreseen during the preparation and validation of the work programme. In implementing the support scheme under the new legislation, the Agency is required to carry out public calls for entry into the support scheme while monitoring the holders of declarations and support. In the last year, the Agency has also witnessed an extremely high level of work in the field of meeting additional obligations and tasks arising from the emerging European legislation. On the basis of these facts, the Agency has drawn up a proposal for a rebalancing of the work programme, which provides for 5 new jobs for the purpose of carrying out those additional tasks and increased workload. The Agency shall be financed by the compensation of both operators, i.e. the transmission system operator and the natural gas transmission system operator, which means that changes in the personnel plan are consequently reflected in the final price paid by the customer in the electricity or natural gas invoice. She stressed that the impact of the proposed additional employment on consumers would be virtually negligible. The proposed new 5 jobs for the average household electricity customer would reflect an increase of only €0.034 per year and 0.1 euros per year for natural gas. Given that new jobs would be more effective in carrying out tasks and consequently have significantly greater effects on the market and consumers, she suggested that the National Assembly should approve the proposed rebalancing of the work programme. Mr Klemen Potisek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, stressed that the Agency is independent in its work and mission, but the Ministry often encourages the Agency to strengthen controls, which requires a certain staff potential. In addition, in the area of support for renewable resources from 2014 to 2016, it added that there were no invitations to tender since the support scheme was not approved or approved by the European Commission and the approval was finally obtained for the support scheme in 2016 and the Ministry has therefore taken up the accelerated preparation of the legal basis for the implementation of the tender. The Agency has issued such an invitation to tender in 2016 and it is expected that there will be a legal basis for the publication of two more calls by the Agency this year, which will certainly represent a significant increase in the volume of work. The President of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that, on the basis of the reasons given for the proposed increase in the number of employees, the Commission supported the proposed work programme rebalancing by a higher percentage. After a short discussion, the Committee voted on the following proposal for a decision: The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Decision on the Understanding on the Rebalance of the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2017 20. 4. 2017. The Committee adopted the proposal with 7 votes in favour and 1 against.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Danilo Anton Ranc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u6	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Director, Mag. Duka Year, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the transposition of the latest package of EU directives, the Energy Agency has received many new powers and related additional tasks. The recent amendments to the Energy Law have defined the Agency as an independent regulatory body, as a regulatory energy agency no longer designated as a public agency and where the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia exercises its constitutional rights. The Council of the Energy Agency must therefore, in accordance with Article 399(4) of the Energy Act, up to 30. The Agency’s work programme and financial plan for the coming year are adopted on 9th of the current year. The Agency’s work programme and financial plan were agreed by the National Assembly in November 2016. The Energy Agency has informed us of the proposal for a rebalance since it notes that, following the adoption of the Agency's work programme, there have been major changes in the definition of the scope of tasks in certain work areas of the Agency, such as supervision of holders of support schemes and declarations and additional activities in the area of promoting electricity production from renewable sources, and a larger scope of tasks could not yet be foreseen during the period of preparation of the approval of the work programme. In addition to the call already issued in 2016 and its resolution in 2017, the Agency will also have to make two public calls this year with the same resources, as well as monitoring the implementation of the support scheme, due to the rules adopted. The Energy Agency needs additional employment to carry out effectively all necessary tasks and measures resulting from the rules in force. However, the impact of the proposed changes on the customer will be minimal according to their provision. The latter means that the Energy Agency must have sufficient staff to carry out these calls, which were accepted by the new energy balance of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the important objectives of the third package of European legislation was to increase the independence and independence of national regulatory authorities and give them sufficient powers to take effective and proportionate measures. An important part is also independence from decisions on the necessary financial and human resources that the regulator needs to carry out its tasks effectively. We will therefore support the proposal for a decision on the Rebalance of the 2017 work programme and financial plan of the Agency for Energy in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, especially because the programme is additionally committed to effectively overseeing the support arising from renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u7	Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u8	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we once again point out that the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy are confirmed by MEPs in the National Assembly. This task should be carried out by the Government with expertise in the work of the regulator, such as the Energy Agency. Surely we are not members of this House. The proposaler, the Energy Agency, hereby substantiates the rebalance due to major changes in the post-admission work plan last year with the 22nd of November. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the power before the adoption of the work programme and the financial plan was to foresee an increased scope this year of work clearly imposed by the Energy Act. The Agency has drawn up the original plan too tightly, it has not been professionally assigned, and according to its tasks, it has been staffed. In this way, the Agency has been pleased to avoid bidding with a higher refund on the final price of gas and electricity. We will not oppose the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for energy in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as we are aware of the responsibilities imposed on the Agency by the Energy Act. We absolutely appeal to the employment of exclusively professional personnel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u9	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on agreement to the Rebalance of Work Programme and the financial plan of the Energy Agency for 2017, we will vote today, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is first of all a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the law on patients' rights. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Maria Milojka Kolar Celarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u10	Good afternoon, well-known Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Member and Members! The adoption of the Law on Patient Rights 9 years ago was certainly the most important acquisition in the field of the protection of patients' rights in the independent Republic of Slovenia, as it accurately defined and merged the patients' rights into a transparent and appropriate catalogue of 14 universal patients' rights. Since its inception, since 26 August 2008, it has been an appropriate tool for the resolution of patients' rights, but some problems have also been revealed in practice. In recent years, we have seen particularly long waiting periods and poorly managed waiting lists, causing great dissatisfaction not only to patients but also to operators. Some solutions have proved to be inadequate, inadequate, or even lifeless in practice. It should also be pointed out that there was no effective control over the area of respect for the patient’s time, which is one of the basic and universal rights of the patient. All of this has led to the fact that waiting lists are often poorly managed, that some operators did not comply with the rules and, on the other hand, the system did not provide operators with sufficient tools to manage waiting lists effectively. Since there is no uniform and correct way to identify the real waiting periods that the operator must communicate and publish, the data obtained are often unrealistic and cause dissatisfaction of patients. I would like to point out what health care providers will have to do to respect the patient’s time. In addition to direct ordering in offices or by post, they will also have to provide telephone ordering and at least one form of electronic ordering. They will have to organize their work so that the waiting time of the ordered patient is as short as possible, with the law setting aside exceptions when waiting time does not run. After the new year, they will have to electronically keep waiting lists and list patients, delete them from the list and inform patients. However, we also propose obligations for patients. It is a new and stricter obligation for the patient to communicate as soon as possible that the already planned delivery of the healthcare service cannot occur. We also introduce a set of reasons and hands to remove patients from the waiting list, which will show a more realistic picture of waiting times. Within the framework of the envisaged changes in the management of the waiting list and the related monitoring of waiting periods, the role and responsibility of the management body shall be exposed, which shall at least analyse the causes of the waiting periods and the results of the analysis, to report to the management authority which is required to take measures in accordance with its competences. The proposal amends or complements other rights, i.e. the right to second opinion at all three levels of the exercise of health care. A doctor who gives a second opinion will be able to choose for himself. It also introduces some entirely new rights, which are essential for safe and quality health care. Among other things, it is a priority to deal with cases before courts where a patient suffers from serious injury, disability and death during medical treatment. Dear Members and Members! The key objectives of the law before you are therefore: ensuring transparency and better management of waiting lists, regulating adequate and integrated supervision in the field of the provision of patient rights and obligations, and ensuring quality, adequate and safe health treatment with certain other measures, establishing a specific safeguard measure, new regulation of the second opinion, require prioritised treatment. The law also complements criminal provisions and introduces inspection control over the entire law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u11	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mrs Vlasta Wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u12	Honourable Presidents, representatives of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a new Law on Patients' Rights is only one of a number of measures taken by the Government to regulate the medical waiting period and to bring waiting periods into an acceptable framework that can be managed, thus allowing all patients to be treated within a reasonable time frame in the future, depending on their health status. The government has already adopted a series of short-term measures that significantly reduce waiting periods in health care. It is thus provided under the general agreement of EUR 54 million for the reduction of waiting periods, and an additional one-year project is being implemented to reduce waiting periods and improve the quality of healthcare, as the Government has provided an additional 36 million from the budget reserve, of which 18 million for this year and 18 for the following. However, we know from past experience that the long-term resolution of these problems is not sufficient solely by providing additional funding and that there is also a need to resolve matters at the level of optimisation of the system. This can be achieved through greater transparency in the management of waiting lists, with proper supervision and ultimately with more responsible behaviour of all those involved in the health service, from the operator to the patient. And that is what we are doing with the changes to the Patient Rights Act that we are considering today. As one of the key elements in optimizing the procurement process in health care, it is also important to highlight in particular the eTravel, which represents one of the important pillars of eHealth. This is a health information process that is unified throughout the country and will provide real data for the number of waiting and waiting periods for the first time. Many wonder why the movement in the field of health legislation is being adopted so slowly and why it is only today that we can change such important legal content, but all its components and dimensions need to be known to solve a health problem. Health-related waiting periods are a serious and complex problem facing all the countries of the developed world whose health systems are based on public health care, and the Minister of Health has taken the lead in solving this area and the government has identified the area of reduction of waiting periods as a priority. The two pilot projects that took place in this mandate provided an important insight into the dynamics of the health procurement process and the management of waiting lists. In this way, key solutions have been crystallized that will contribute to longer-term solutions in the area of reduction of waiting periods. It has proved necessary to align the existing provisions of the Patient Rights Act with the Regulation on Long-Term Allowable waiting periods for individual health services and on how to manage waiting lists; to provide additional financial resources and to change the funding system for certain health services; to ensure the cost-effectiveness of healthcare providers; to implement the eProcurement Project; to ensure the electronic management of waiting lists; to separate waiting lists for patients who want a precisely defined health service provider; and to impose fines for unwarranted absences of patients. The proposal for a new Law on Patient Rights follows these findings from the pilot project and brings solutions to optimise the procurement and management of waiting lists, so the key objectives of the law are to regulate patients' access to health services within a reasonable time frame, to regulate adequate supervision in the field of the provision of patient rights and obligations. Due to difficulties in the implementation of certain patients' rights, such as the right to respect the patient's time, the amendment will propose a more detailed definition, control and infringement provisions on waiting lists and in this regard individual obligations of both operators and patients. Ensuring more appropriate additional adequate patient protection, which, by means of inspection, introduces the possibility of infringements of legal standards and sanctions. Ensuring adequate quality and health care for patients with timely access to health services and ensuring transparency in the management of waiting lists, including ways to strengthen certain duties of patients and to protect patients as users of health services from violating their rights. With the new Law on Patient Rights, we are following the objective of ensuring quality and effective health care, which must remain a priority for all of us. We believe that the health system must maintain its universality and accessibility under equal conditions for all citizens. This can be achieved through a number of different measures, of which the Law on Patient Rights brings important solutions, where in these amendments and additions we eliminate subordination in the field of legislation. We support the proposal of the Modern Centre's Parliamentary Group, because we believe it brings important steps in the area of reducing waiting time in health care and is mainly written for the benefit of patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u13	Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! We are here in the mandate of this government, in this National Assembly, we are trained to do everything possible and impossible. Even such things, which at first seem impossible, this coalition, of course, brings them together through the parliamentary procedure, only to bring the coalition together, which means we get this, you get this, and the law is under the roof. The profession is not taken into account, it is the motto of this government and, above all, the Minister of Health. Health care under the direction of this minister is becoming increasingly sick, the health system is collapsing and the coalition is doing nothing at the cost of its own existence. The health system itself is in a major crisis, sick and entangled with corruption. If the coordination of the Health Act, which will take place on a side-by-side basis or will be completed in the National Assembly in the following month, it has been heard that the battle was a matter of mutual coalition shopping, which went directly to the medical union. However, the fact is that we still do not have a public health network on an appropriate, secondary and tertiary level at which all health reform should be built. But at the Ministry and also in the coalition, you still haven't been able to agree on and harmonise in your statements whether we have a public health network or not. We don't have a public health network! When we talk about the public health network in this national assembly, I must say that it is not clear to everyone what the public health network is, why we need it and whether we have it. This was clearly demonstrated at the previous meeting here, in the National Assembly on the Treatment of the Health Act. One of the Members, I must say that he has no idea what a public health network is, has a long and wide debate on who is responsible for the public health network and so on. After all, in his debate he came so far as to find that we Members here, in the National Assembly, are responsible for the fact that public health networks are still not. What else?Oh, my God! The old saying says, you know, sometimes it's better to be quiet than to talk about things you don't know. There are also no legal changes regarding the responsibilities and responsibilities of management staff. Therefore, our public health institutions create greater losses from month to month, and no one wonders whether it may be the director or the board of the public health institution. No, the minister believes in the management of the public institution, which claims that it is all the fault of course of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which does not increase the price of health services. But, dear colleagues, here is the question of why some public health institutions then operate positively. It is true that these institutions are very few, but they also believe that it would be better if we were doing business negatively, so that we would receive more funding for next year and are definitely damaged when doing business positively. Who understands that logic? Instead of being rewarded by these positive institutions, they are harmed and punished, as I have already said, and this, dear colleagues, is the wrong world and we are part of it. Until recently, at least the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia has reasonably held back the prices of health services, assuming, of course, that there is sufficient money in health care, but because of corruption, this money, which is intended for patients and public health institutions, is dispersed into private pockets. With the new management of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the new legislation envisaged, it is called the Health and Health Insurance Act, which is in preparation, and the monopoly and patronage of more than 2.4 billion euros will thus take over the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and will be taken over by political interests. In explanation of this point, according to the Patient Rights Act, the United Kingdom and Norway are also listed in the display of regulation in other legal systems within the EU. I do not know why the Ministry does not follow these two countries, where waiting periods are also minimal. However, if the healthcare provider in these countries is unable to provide within a reasonable period or at a time, the patient may contact a health insurance company which, of course, is obliged to provide another option and another operator. With us, however, insurance companies would end or go after only one state insurance company, which is the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which will have a monopoly on health services, and we also know where this will lead us, so it will lead us back to those old times. Only the patients, of course the second-class ones, will feel it. This will be felt in the long waiting lines, in reducing the rights to which they will or will not be entitled, and no Law on Patient Rights, which sets the maximum allowable time of waiting in the waiting room or in order for the patient to complain, will help. It's just sand in your eyes. As a systemic change, the Ministry should first prepare, of course, without political interference, the Health Insurance Act, then the Health Act, then the Law on the Management and Operation of Public Health Institutions. This legislation should be prepared by the Minister together with the expert, not under the influence of politics. Thus, the Minister here today, as the first system change, represents the Law on Patient Rights. That's ridiculous! The first thing the Minister should have done before systemic changes was to prepare a public health network for the primary, secondary and tertiary level. Only then would the Ministry have information on how many doctors and public health institutions we need in terms of the number of citizens and the number of patients. The Minister should prepare, of course, as has already been said, the Health Care Act in order to obtain information on how much funding the insurance undertaking will have at its disposal, how health services will be financed and which health services will be financed at all. It is also important to change the legislation on governance and the responsibility of employment in public health institutions and beyond, to know where we will get the money to build public health institutions, the equipment that will be the financial, organisational and human resources structure of individual public health institutions; of course, that patients will not wait too long to be satisfied with those working in public health institutions, and also those who benefit from these services, but not to leave both our doctors and our patients abroad for treatment. If there is not enough money in the health register, the Ministry and, of course, this coalition should consider concessions and private outpatients. In these cases, concessionaires and private individuals invest themselves in buildings and equipment, thus costing the country neither investment nor equipment nor maintenance. It is only then that the thinking and introduction of so-called e-passengers, patient rights and so on will take place. A fine example for the Minister not to know how and what she is doing is the fact that she fell on an organizational, staff and financial examination of the emergency centres. The emergency centres were largely built before this minister's performance. All I have to do is provide personnel, finance and the organisation of emergency centres, and none of this has been done in three years. This is because the minister of everything she does is going on the wrong side, as is the case with the Law on Patient Rights. So the minister made systematic changes in the field of health as if someone who intended to build a house first bought a door. The front door is also very important, as is the patient's rights, it is true, but any good master will first look at how much money he has, how much money he can get together, and of course the financial capacity will depend on where he buys the plot, how big this plot will be, only then will he acquire the building material, or he will decide what kind of door he will have. We heard from the publisher in the media yesterday, of course in connection with this Law on Patient Rights, that we will here, in the National Assembly, consider the Law on Patient Rights or the Law on the Reduction of Waiting Ages. I think anyone who's read this marriage carefully knows that's not true. The Ministry states in its explanatory statement that the basic principle of the Law on patient rights is to ensure adequate treatment, quality and safety of healthcare, timely access and transparency in the management of waiting lists and to ensure protection against infringements of patient rights. Where does the law speak of what is appropriate, what is the quality and safety of health care? I, unfortunately, can't find this in this marriage. Among the main solutions in this law, the Ministry has stated that there is control and infringing provisions on waiting lists. These proposed solutions should also be followed by the objectives of improving the substantive and legal definition of rights. I'd say that, come on! I hope that, at least in her explanation, the Minister will explain more precisely what the drafter of the law meant by this statement – of course in his explanation. The Ministry also stated in its explanation that the law would have no consequences in the field of public administration and judicial authorities. What about health care providers? They will feel some major changes called bureaucracy or perhaps even excessive bureaucracy. If I go to the very motion for amendments to this law. Among other things, the law provides for respect for the patient’s time. The shortest possible waiting time shall not exceed 30 minutes. Now I'm asking you, what then? Will the patient wait 30 minutes, wait an hour? Then what's he gonna do? Is he going home? Is he going to complain? I'm sure you don't. He'll wait an hour, two hours for his turn, and he'll be happy to come. And the degree of urgency of enrollment on the waiting list. The Ministry added “very quickly” during the stage of urgency, meaning that the patient should be treated within 14 days. It's just a bluff, I'd call it. This will not save long waiting lines! The species will also be long and only the guide will be said slightly differently, and I would stress once again that we will not eliminate the long waiting lines. However, the most appropriate provision is that it refers to the consequences of an unjustified absence from the time limit set for the patient. If the patient forgets and does not apologize, he will be punished by listing the waiting list in three months. And I'm asking you all here if anyone has ever forgotten a term. I'm sure we've all forgotten, and that's why we've always felt the consequences, but this marriage is about our health, don't forget it. However, with regard to the procurement of health services, I do not think the Ministry knows what it wrote down. The Ministry noted that the health care provider in the network – by the way – does not have this network – provides comprehensive care for the patient, so that the patient is not burdened more quickly by the health service provider. This means that the doctor will do everything for the patient, it is said, to order it for any checks that he has previously given him the guide for. So the patient won't have to worry about this famous e-mail and he won't have to worry about how he's gonna order. Well, that's good, because we all know how the e-procurement project works or doesn't work! In the fact that all patients would, of course, prefer to be assisted by a doctor, I don't think the Ministry knows, I'm going to say again what's written in the law or what's never been consulted before. The fact is that this provision will further increase red tape in already humanely weak health care, especially at the beginning. The law also newly provides that a body belt obstruction measure may be implemented to ensure quality and safe medical treatment. Here I wonder why the Ministry did not include treatment in psychiatric hospitals in the preparation of this law. What about patients in these institutions? These patients, too, are human, and these patients still need medical attention, not just belt ties! The law also mentions the right to second opinion in the public health service network. But this right is governed by a law that is not yet in existence. This is the Health and Health Insurance Act. What if the Patients' Rights Act were to be passed, and the Health and Health Insurance Act would not see the light from this world, at least in this mandate? Then what will happen to this right? It'll only be a right on paper, only so the Ministry can hook up with the Patient Rights Act to get him through the procedure. Even with the waiting lists. I don't know what art is in here. Let the Ministry finally prepare a programme, a computer program for all contractors, connect it and then require operators to respect it. But I don't mean a program like Koprivnik's cloud, which, after all these three years, still doesn't work or lets it pour, but doesn't rain. Therefore, the Ministry should first prepare a public health network, an appropriate legal basis, provide staff, organisation and funding, and then punish operators and patients. But let all citizens be provided with friendly health care; the one we deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u15	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The New Law on Patient Rights, which is before us, in the Desus Group we see in the first place as a response to unacceptable long waiting periods, as it defines in more detail the waiting list, its management, management, control, as well as the obligations of operators and patients to include it on their own. It also contains criminal provisions which, in view of the complexity of the procedures envisaged, may also be criminal. All of this does not provide less waiting for treatment, as the expected changes do not mean a real reduction in waiting periods. We deal more with their consequences. The law seeks to eliminate only the anomalies and deviations that have arisen due to long-term waiting, such as skipping waiting species, and it is concerned that the amendment of the law imposes new administrative burdens on health workers, which will give them even less time to treat and treat patients. The objectives set will be difficult to follow for at least a while and not a fully functioning eHealth system, on which the amendment of the law is largely based. We are afraid that the Ministry of Health will expect too much from eProcurement and eTips, as it will still be necessary for most services and ordering elective interventions, checks, ordering by old, by telephone, regular or/and e-mail or personal, and operators will enter our data themselves into the e-Procurement database. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that a number of our comments have been taken into account during the coordination, which, at least this time by the Minister, have not been considered as speculation in the legislative process. The Ministry of Health has thus taken into account our proposals for determining the degree of urgency, as well as a positive assessment of the identification of certain content that is more relevant to the level of sub-legislative acts than the law itself. This enables greater flexibility of the system and facilitates the resolution of solutions that prove inappropriate in everyday practice. The requirement to keep waiting periods parallel to the old and the new system for at least some time has also been taken into account, which is of paramount importance, since it allows comparability with the existing system and thus further monitoring not only of waiting periods but also of the effectiveness of measures to reduce them. We are convinced that the information on waiting periods must remain publicly accessible and transparent in the future, especially reliable and helpful to the payer, so that it will be easier to respond to them by buying those programs where waiting for treatment is unacceptable for a long time. The bill also introduces some new obligations for patients, which we do not oppose in the Desus Group, because patients need to know both their rights and their duties. For example, it is a duty to inform the operator in due time that there will be no one to be examined or ordered, which will relieve the seat for the next patient. In the proposal for a novelty, we also expected a completely new proposal, so it would make sense for some countries to require operators to publish on their websites information that would make it easier for patients to choose a better operator. For example, data on waiting periods, number and type of interventions carried out, quality indicators and so on. This is the practice of many countries, which leads operators to more efficient and quality work. In the past, there have also been discussions about the requirement for regular, annual mandatory information and consideration of national waiting periods within the Health Council or perhaps the National Assembly or the competent Health Committee, which would give particular weight to the accessibility of health services. In our view, more attention should also be paid to the treatment of some groups of patients, such as cancer patients. Thus, the proposal for a new law remains to a greater extent only a response to the current abnormal and unacceptable situation in the public health system. The type of problems we deal with in the bill will fall away at a time when waiting periods will not be unacceptablely long. The waiting days themselves are the reason for most of the anomalies that we try to eliminate by means of this amendment of the law. We therefore expect effective, short-term and long-term measures from the Ministry of Health in the Desus Group. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the proposal in the first reading, but we hope that, through joint efforts in the second reading, we will improve the content to the point that we will no longer have concerns and fears that the law will not only impose additional administrative burdens on already overburdened health workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u17	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed amendment to the Patient Rights Act, most of the provisions of the current regulation on public health business, with the exception of Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the Regulation, which remain in force until the adoption of the rule on quality and safety in health and the applicable Regulation on maximum allowable waiting periods for individual health services, are very detailed and accurately transposed into law. It is worth noting that both acts are under-laws currently in force under the Patient Rights Act. We are of the opinion that the proposed amendments and additions to the law are actually passing on very detailed administrative and administrative instructions, which we, Members, will be carrying out at an ever-increasing waiting time and an ever-increasing number of those waiting for health care providers and patients. Moreover, to us, Members are thus entrusted with the responsibility of accepting changes that are of great professional importance and worldwide in the domain of the Ministry of Health and its professional working bodies. We take responsibility for the exercise of the patient's rights, which are already quite clear and unequivocal in the current Law on Patient Rights. We stress and draw attention to decisions that may have significant consequences throughout the harmonisation of the proposal, as decisions on technical and organisational issues are being passed on to national or political level, which we cannot judge and decide precisely enough. Any further amendment to the law required by changes in the technical guidelines or development of medical technology also affect access to health services and thus the quality, safety and efficiency of the treatment of the patient, which is a fundamental principle in the current Law on Patient Rights, would, on a proposal from now on, be in the parliamentary domain and would be at risk of other changes in the future due to political disagreements. This will create the risk of professional questions or possible priority treatments, such as timing, quality and suitability for treatment for precisely specified specialities, such as oncology, periodontology, urology, pedopsychiatry, psychiatry and others, or changes in the level of urgency for each specialty, changes in the content of waiting lists, if it has in practice been shown that they are not feasible – and is likely to be based on the warnings of operators that this will also happen – changes in e-procurement or e-mails, changes in the way in which waiting lists are managed, changes in waiting time in the waiting room, changes in the tri-age of travel procedures due to the lack of doctors and active personnel will no longer be easy to cooperate with professional – quickly so effectively. All of these will therefore have negative consequences for the functioning of the entire healthcare system, in particular for patients and health care providers. What is most important, in fact, is everything mentioned — as has been the case so far, since much of this has already been regulated in the Regulation and the Regulation — will still not shorten waiting periods and reduce the number of waiting ones. This has been clearly and unequivocally pointed out by the Social Democrats all the time in preparing the proposal and again today. The expectations we have in the area of patients' rights Social Democrats should not be satisfied with the establishment of an independent institution to monitor the quality and safety of patients, which was also originally established in the original proposal, as the Social Democrats with the solutions provided by the Patient Rights Act cannot be satisfied, as the proposal fails to take into account the warning that the envisaged penal policy, the increased number of administrative and administrative procedures without adequate information and, in particular, staff supplies will not reduce the number of waiting and patients who cannot reach a doctor on time because of the above, but will deepen the problem of long waiting periods. Although we have expressed our support for taking measures to reduce the number of waiting and to shorten waiting periods, we have clearly and unequivocally expressed our support for the drafting of the amendment to the Law on Patient Rights, and the proposal for a law does not address these problems. Therefore, in the stage of preparing the amendments and supplementing, we have pointed out that the proposed changes do not fall to the national level or to the level of policy. The proposals that we have presented in an reasoned manner relate in particular to the inadequacy of administrative and technical procedures, such as the triage of travel; the cancellation and method of ordering patients to one of the health services; the monitoring, reporting and analysis of national waiting periods and the number of waiting periods; the reasonable limitation of waiting time before the office and the determination of allowable waiting periods: urgent – 24 hours, fast – 3 months, regular – 6 months, with the introduction of a new rate very quickly – 14 days; the extension of periods for obtaining medical documentation or tests from 5 days to 7 working days, except in the case of suspected cancer or the course of treatment of malignancies, which we have been able to add to the law, which of course we welcome. In the absence of the proposal to include in waiting lists activities that do not have only control visits, such as pedopsychiatrics, development clinics, dentistry, physiotherapy, psychiatry, orthodontology, all of this and more should be allowed to be decided by the Minister responsible for health and not by Parliament in cooperation with expertise. We are therefore of the opinion of the Social Democrats that, in order to exercise the rights of the patient, we must also take into account the opinions of the representatives of the patient's rights, which, unfortunately, have not been taken into account and we are rightly concerned, such as concerned operators and patients, how the ideas set out in the new Law on Patient Rights will be implemented in practice, in particular with regard to the introduction of new technologies such as eSurrender and eSurrender. Therefore, we believe that we have not yet resolved the unreasonablely long waiting period and the deferred right to access health services for patients to whom the Patients' Rights Act is also intended. We still stand in the position that determining the degree of urgency and carrying out waiting lists and other detailed instructions for the implementation of these are within the competence of the Ministry of Health and not on our political level. The introduction of the urgency rate very quickly – 14 days, to all waiting for more than 3 months and more than 6 months, will not allow quicker treatment, since the time interval in office time still has the same number of hours. There is a high risk that waiting time will be extended for patients who are now waiting to be treated with a travel agent for a rapid and regular level of urgency and waiting period after a new period of professional waiting period. However, it will be changed if necessary by the Minister responsible for health. It is illogical to determine the degree of urgency of Members by law and to amend them by regulation. Social Democrats are expected to contribute to improvements in the area of patient rights. Based on experience from practice, based on annual and monthly reports following the provisions of the Patient Rights Act and the Rules and Regulation, not new administrative obstacles that will not help to reduce waiting periods and reduce the number of waiting ones and enable operators to improve the quality, safety and timeliness of health services or to have more time for patients with changes – unfortunately, the proposal does not. Healthcare professionals will be burdened with new administrative requirements, no adequate payments and additional staff by amending the Patient Rights Act. Social Democrats will not object to this stage of the bill proposal, but we expect to take into account our proposals, as well as the proposals of the contractors and the general public, which will go towards the initial proposal for the starting point of the Patient Rights Act of December 2016. Maintaining time-to-time reporting and establishing an independent institution for the quality and safety of patients, which would indicate the need to establish in the light of recent events at the Paediatric Clinic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u19	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. The main purpose of this law is to reduce waiting periods; the main measure is to rationalise waiting lists. We all know, and the analysis confirms that on waiting lists there are also up to half of the fictional patients, it is said that people who are either incapable of reaching an intervention that they do not want to intervene or are ordered to do the same in several doctors at the same time. On the basis of these pilot projects, we can agree with the Government that the updated lists are an important reason for the extension of waiting periods. A well-known KPK report on physicians of amphibians also showed that some patients, in particular self-paid patients, may have skipped species. In this way, too, waiting strains have been prolonged for more urgent patients. For the same socialist intervention, we support the proposed measures with some reservations, but it is still necessary to tackle this problem a little wider for the introduction. For this reason, we support the Ministry's intention to prevent such practices and punish those carried out or admitted by inspection in the future. Before I go to the concrete definition of the proposed solutions, however, I must mention others, according to our estimates, the main reasons for extending waiting periods. It must be acknowledged that the availability of health services has deteriorated in recent years, as shown by the extension of waiting periods. And whoever has the average income can afford self - paying services, everyone else has to wait because, of course, they can seriously endanger their health. Such a situation benefits only two narrow groups: these are the owners of health companies and insurance companies offering insurance for self-paying services. All others are harmed by such conditions; it harms patients who wait too long to be examined and treated in public institutions to the same public institutions that lose income and personnel, and ultimately harms self-payers because they have to pay something that should provide compulsory insurance. To solve this problem, we must do two; we must immediately stop the flow of resources and personnel from the public system to the private. In the medium term, however, we need to bring both resources and doctors back into the public system so that all residents and residents get what they need and that they will get it in time. If we want to stop this covert privatization in health care, we should adopt a moratorium on new concessions and at the same time ban the afternoon work of doctors from the public system in private. Yes, yes, someone will now report that this is the subject of another law, the Health Act. However, I must mention this because it is necessary to realize that only updating the lists cannot cure our health system. As long as public health has unfair competition in healthcare companies, the system will simply encourage doctors to do less in a public institution so that they can earn more from a private or private person. The number of doctors will always be limited, the need for treatment will be increasingly greater than the number of staff and resources, so we need to ask ourselves who has the advantage. Whether the person who is more sick or the one who can pay has the advantage. We're going in the direction of this other system. There's an increasing number of commercial insurance ads on TV that you come in line with, say, in two weeks. But you should be aware that the patient is likely to be examined by a doctor who works in a public hospital. Instead, this doctor could have done some other, more urgent procedure, of course, if the institution had paid him for it. This gives us a third major reason for the long waiters, a lack of money or a more precise lack of public money. Because taking public and private resources into account, we spend 9.2% of GDP on health, which is not so small, but taking only public funds into account, this percentage falls to 6.7% of GDP, which is not enough. And it's not enough because only public funds ensure that those patients who are more severely ill have the advantage. Self - paying follows the logic that the one who pays the most has the advantage, even if it is only a beautiful intervention. I have to make it very clear to citizens that the coalition does not plan to increase the funds earmarked for health. In fact, they're going the other way. By 2020, we would like to tighten public spending while raising military expenditure due to so-called NATO commitments. And of course, if you go into the overall reduction of the public sector and at the same time raise expenses for the military, you will impoverish other, more vital sectors, including, or even in the first place, health care. You can accuse me a hundred times that I'm a demagog, that I'm a populism, and I don't know what else to do, but if the government will respect its fictitious commitments to Nate, we'll throw 1.2 billion euros into the middle battalion groups that will benefit Nate alone. And these 1.2 billion euros will be lost forever for beneficial investments in health. Maybe, ladies and gentlemen, then Nate's bureaucrats will hit you on the back, but this way in this country we'll never have a normal number of CTs, magnetic resonances or radiation devices. I am sure that the vast majority of citizens and citizens would prefer the needs of our people over the fictional commitments you have made to Nate. Of course, these commitments to NATO are not the only examples of spending precious resources! I mention them because, in all areas, the government boasts precisely by restricting funds and rationalisation, and by disguised repression, when we reach these sectors, it boasts of an increase in expenditure and does not want to hear about any rationalisation. In short, it is spent on bureaucracy and repression and is saved in social policy, health and development. The country strengthens its right hand and at the same time starves its left hand. Finally, I would like to define myself to the main solutions contained in this law. As it is said, we support most of these solutions on the left, because pilot projects show that they are solving the actual causes of unscheduled waiting lists. As the most positive move, it would point out the increased competence of the health inspectorate and the imposition of penalties for those who malpractice keeping lists or even allowing species to be skipped. At this point, I must express strong support for the Ministry of Health because it will provide additional funds for health inspection by law. This is not a self-evident thing, you know, because in other sectors ministries are deliberately poorer than supervisory authorities. I will tell you a very specific and most scandalous case, this is a work inspection. You at the Ministry of Health have found that the violation is increasing and the inspectors are decreasing and that is why you have proposed hiring new inspectors, regardless of the government's annual staffing plan. Then your colleague is Anja Kopač Dark, who does exactly the opposite. There has been an increasing violation of labour law, but the ministry has consistently rejected our proposals to provide additional funds for labour inspectors and additional powers for labour inspection. You, at the Ministry of Health, have responded by introducing new penalties for offenders, the chief labour inspector, for example, Nataša Trček, and changing the labour inspection from the criminal to the consultative body for the employer. In short, Madam Minister, you have our full support for these measures, violations must be absolutely prevented and offenders punished. For us socialists, the most important thing is that people actually get to get to treatment quickly. That is why we have comments on the new rules on permissible waiting periods. Currently, in Article 3 of this Regulation, the oncology guard is said to be for cancer patients. The Regulation states that these patients should be admitted within one month at the latest. Well, there is no such fuse in Article 8 of the new rules and, if I understand correctly, experts should also approve the amendment. You say that some cancer cases are not so dangerous that they should be treated within one month, or you say that a cancer patient who has to be treated earlier than within one month will be given an emergency or very urgently. I'm not a doctor myself to be able to make any reasoned judgments here, but I still suggest that out of caution, if you wish, this fuse is preserved in the Regulation. It can only be written that patients are treated with cancer at the latest within one month, regardless of all. In this way, you kill two flies at a time; calm the people and prevent the right opposition from having another reason to disrupt the health reform you represent. We all know that today's debate is essentially about not restricting concessions and not abolishing supplementary health insurance. The right opposition is simply representing the interests of commercial insurance companies and they are simply not for 80% of the Slovenian population to pay less than they pay today and for more than 60 million euros to come into the health system than they do today and are currently being adopted by insurance companies. And it is clear that they will take advantage of every opportunity to torpedo this health reform. Since I have more time than usual, I would remind you of two other shortcomings in amended Article 14 and in the new Article 14b. You would prescribe in Article 14b that, for example, a hospital may change the level of urgency on a travel agent on a triage basis. Now, this may be a doctor's protection against bribery, but the question is, how can a doctor who has not even seen a patient judge whether he needs to be treated urgently or not. The second point to the same Article concerns the seventh paragraph, which states that the review does not take into account the degree of urgency. I think it's reckless, too, because not all controls are as urgent. What bothers us most on the left is the fifth paragraph of Article 14. It says here that the longest allowable waiting period is respected if at least one public network operator treats patients in a timely manner. I know that this provision is already part of the existing law, but we think that we need to set goals more ambitious in health; that is, that the waiting period is respected if at least 50% of patients turn out on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u21	The text is given by the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jernej Vrtovac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, good afternoon! Dear Madam Secretary! The key issue in today's debate, today's debate over the next four hours, will certainly be a fair question as to whether the waiting times for adoption of this law will be reduced or whether patients will be reduced because of this law that we are considering today will be dealt with more quickly. Christian Democrats in all of this are sure to be quick if one reads this law, the answer is that waiting periods will not be reduced on the basis of the adoption of this law. But why? This will certainly not happen because of the introduction of an additional level of urgency, but only because of this for sure. In addition to the three previous stages of urgency of patient treatment, a rate is added, i.e. “very quickly”. Now a few stats. So in Slovenia we have about 127 thousand – look out, 127 thousand! – waiting for the first medical examination, of which more than 13,000 are waiting for more than a reasonable period of time, while for the remaining health services there are about 11,000 waiting for more than a quarter or 25% of them over the permissible waiting period. The waiting years, the hand on the heart, unfortunately, are the result of the illness of our health system, the failure to act over a longer period of time, of course, only from the independence of the system, the obsolete system, which, in fact, through its adoption, we do not want to end the legislative changes in this mandate. What are the consequences? The consequences of waiting periods are definitely a deterioration of the health status and an increase in the risk of permanent consequences and death of patients, an unequal treatment of patients when accessing health services. The result of waiting periods is also economic damage on both the employers' side and the ZZS side, measuring slightly less than EUR 100 million. Finally, there is a safety risk for healthcare providers. If it seemed particularly last year that the minister had taken a very big bite in this bitter apple, a very rotten apple and that we would start to reduce waiting periods, statistics are completely different, despite the fact that we are wasting money to reduce waiting periods. Statistics say nothing's going down. Let us see, last June, the Minister presented the pilot measures – we will devote more money. All of this is well-intentioned, certainly, but the resolution process is completely wrong. Only through additional funding and changing the level of urgency of waiting types, waiting periods will we reduce for nothing, and patients, citizens and citizens will continue to suffer in this account in essence. I will touch on another problem in this law that points to the whole problem; the problem of changing or creating this so-called reform. Patients will only be redistributed into four different categories by introducing a new degree of urgency, but waiting lines will not be reduced to a larger extent. It's obvious he's admitting it – look out! – the proposer himself in this law. In the 6th point of the bill, in key solutions, someone has apparently forgotten or left a part of the text that reads as follows: "The Ministry of Health has received specific comments from the professional and other interested public in this package, with regard to the additional level of urgency very quickly, which the proposal for a law was still foreseen during the public debate. In this regard, the Slovenian Medical Chamber stressed that the additional urgency rate would very quickly represent 90% of the diagnostic and therapeutic measures and raised the question of how operators should act on such instructions. Following the re-examination of the proposal on the additional urgency level, we withdrew very quickly as only a change in the maximum timeframes does not remove administrative barriers that would create and require new forms for the documents sent. Instead, the current level of urgency is maintained and the possibility of not determining the degree of urgency is added when the doctor assesses that the patient’s medical condition allows for the execution of a health service after three months. With this proposal for a law, the doctor therefore has the possibility not to establish the degree of urgency in a particular case or not to indicate on the consignment note if he finds that, according to his medical condition, taking into account the specific reasonable time, the patient does not need medical treatment earlier than three months. Thus, the bill still foresees three stages of urgency: urgent, rapid and regular. Madam Minister, this is what you wrote in this bill. Now I don't know if there's any negligence here or if it's a completely different concept than you say. But then we'll talk about this debate today because we'll know basically what we're taking. We can't really take a cat in a frog. I hope this is a matter of negligence, but the law, as a minister, certainly also gives you broad powers to regulate even the provision of health services from a specific area within a period exceeding six months. But not only will we be critical, because in New Slovenia we are very critical of our "health reform", which prepares for all legislative procedures, we also have our own solutions. This is why criticism is very much in place, but we also recognize some of the efforts you are making to amend health legislation. I'm sure and they're grateful for your hard work. But it's not enough that a man is trying. It is commendable that we will finally begin to respect what is in the law, to respect the patient's time, as you suggest, but we are afraid that this will be just another dead letter of this law, because there is no sanction in all of this. This further adoption of legislation would certainly be subject to further amendment. We want changes in our health care to actually happen. As a result, Nova Slovenija has also proposed a comprehensive reform of the health system towards greater competitiveness between operators, among insurance companies, so that they can emerge in a completely natural way and destroy waiting periods. Unfortunately, dear Minister, hope – despite your good faith that things will change – we have less and less of this hope for citizens and citizens as well as for politicians. It's getting smaller. There is a lack of time and also of decisive action to be taken to throw this entire rotten apple away and to receive some comprehensive health reform, it seems that there is less and more comprehensive health reform in this mandate, which would be a truly better health system, will not see the light of the world. But with regard to the proposal for a law, we would also like to highlight another unfortunate solution in Novi Slovenija, concerning the acquisition of a second opinion. With regard to the acquisition of a second opinion, which appears to be possible only with public health providers. That's what it says. But, my dears, how is this going to be possible, that is, a second opinion, only with public health providers with such long waiting lines and periods? How? Someone's gonna wait six months for a second opinion? And it's going to happen to him – what? This is why we say that the consequences of waiting periods are also deaths, including the deaths of patients. Because this law does not actually solve the essential problems, it does not mean reducing waiting periods, because of this law we will not support in New Slovenia, unless we are further given substantial changes that would really go in this direction in order to reduce waiting periods by at least 10%, and there is really no hope under this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u23	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u24	Nice greeting, ladies and gentlemen! Health reform is the one we most expect in this mandate. It was promised three years ago, we don't even have it on the table today and we don't have it on the heart, almost no one believes that it will ever be in this mandate, which, of course, is bad, especially for patients. The health situation is bad, maybe even at the point of fracture, but nothing changes. You engage in human resources affairs, poor relationships between employees, putting incompetent people in positions of leadership. Despite the lack of doctors in Slovenia, young doctors do not get a job and go abroad. Despite much more money than the state and health have had in the crisis in 2013 and 2014, we are talking about 300 million euros, hospital losses are enormous, and worse, waiting times are rising, more than 30% have increased, more than 300 million additional money. From day to day there are suspicions of uneconomic behaviour and all of this is a picture of our health system and nothing changes, unfortunately. Today we have before us a proposal for a new Law on Patient Rights, which brings, among other things, news in the field of posting, keeping waiting lists and informing patients. Waiting lists will or should be updated for all services where waiting types exist, and these, so to speak, will also be more transparent and refined, as the patient will only be able to wait for one operator for the same health care service, and that is of course correct. Patients will have to be listed on the waiting list within 5 days of the submission of the package leaflet if they are unable to attend the check-in, they must report it at least 10 days earlier, otherwise the patient will be removed from the waiting list and the re-notification will be possible after 3 months. Otherwise, medical care should not be provided to the patient unless it is on the waiting list, except in emergencies. Patients will be newly alerted for an appointment. Each will receive a notice for the first time 10 days before, and the last two days before, which is also correct. In addition to the currently known three stages of urgency – regular, rapid and urgent – the fourth stage of “very fast” is being introduced, which will mean that the patient should receive treatment within 14 days. In the infirmary, according to the new one, we should no longer wait more than 30 minutes, except for those who came unsolicited, and all those who need urgent medical attention. I'm surprised that the law no longer determines the longest waiting period for cancer, which is, of course, wrong and wrong. There are also some changes in the area of second opinion. However, it is interesting to see a chapter of financial implications, which, apart from the additional money for the establishment of an inspection which will deal with violations of the provisions of the law, particularly relating to waiting lists, we find nothing. There are no other financial implications for the state budget and other public finances, you have written down. So, according to the new one, there will be order in the waiting rooms, no one will wait more than 30 minutes, the turn will come sooner, if the review is needed very quickly, we will be in line in 14 days. But all this without the euro of extra money, and the hospitals are already losing. Which means if they lose, the money's too low. This, of course, means that, unfortunately, there will be nothing left of this law but letters on paper. No change for the better, no faster and more effective treatment of patients and no more satisfaction among patients. Too bad you're not more ambitious and haven't been able to change anything in three years in health care. Unfortunately, this will continue until the end of the term of office. People will have to wait for urgent changes or health reform. A new government will have to wait; a government that will have to listen to people, especially a vision and concrete solutions for health.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u25	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mrs Vlada Počak has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Bačič and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Government representatives, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The European Commission has recognised the need to involve the patient in health policy, as it has also identified in its White Paper, and notes that health policy must start with the rights of the patient. On the basis of a set of recommendations prepared for the legal arrangements for the protection of these patients' rights, the law began to apply to us in 2008, but some problems emerged when it was applied. The patient’s fundamental right to respect his/her time was a lack of implementation due to the emergence of an unacceptable long waiting period. However, there are many reasons for their creation. New diagnostics and therapy options, because you know that the technology in health has changed a lot, people have new needs, operational interventions are different, and in ten years, things have changed a lot. There have been or are still demographic changes, and there are increasing numbers of older people who also have different needs. Patients' awareness of their health is also different from it was years ago. Defensive medicine, lack of doctors, as well as other health workers, increased and insufficiently valued health care programmes, a financial crisis has emerged in the past, and all this has led to long waiting periods. Since 2011, several measures have been taken, pilot projects to regulate the management of long waiting periods and these projects have revealed the need for a single computer programme to manage and establish a national waiting list. Various operators have so far also had different programs, such as Infonet List. After that, it became necessary to list patients, taking into account the provisions already mentioned in the Patient Rights Act, but they were not taken into account. The need for admission of patients cannot be a mere administrative burden on operators, but it is a document by which a doctor, when writing a leaflet, hands over the treatment and hand over the patient to another operator or to another doctor to communicate and exchange the information obtained on the basis of which regular waiting periods can be determined and that operators publish all waiting periods, not only what was needed for the National Institute for Public Health. [[…]] In 2015, the eHealth project also introduced the informationisation of Slovenian health care, which connects the different information systems of operators into the entire national information project. The project is already in operation and both contractors and patients are also very pleased with the e-reception that has now become indispensable. The patient can pick up his medicine at any pharmacy in Slovenia and the performer has already written and sent to the pharmacy by clicking on the recipe. Recently, eTravel has also been activated, which eliminates paper ordering, and at the same time, when it was written, we can also order a patient for a health care service. The eProcurement system allows a review of the free and framework dates for all operators in one place. At the same time, it is possible for the patient to check the patient’s travel details on the familiar portal itself. Examples of good practice, I have recently been in a health care institution and they have shown how in basic health care we have the opportunity to order checks, get free dates, so this is also positive. Also in the variable part of the award agreed by the Government and Fides, the obligation to consistently use e-receptions and e-passengers, the main purpose of which is in fact the collection of patient data. Often, patients with a degree of urgency were placed on the waiting list but did not comply with the order. They also performed services in patients who were not hired. They provided an inadequate level of urgency, provided services on the same day, even if it was not an emergency service, they led the list of waiting periods by hand mainly in dentists, leading to inappropriate listings. According to the data collected, 20% of the unwarranted absences of patients who failed to notify their absence in time or only later, resulting in the non-exploitation of resources because the operator was waiting for the patient, the deadline was not met in the waiting line and the operator had no opportunity to include another patient in that period, leading to an extension of waiting periods and showing the irresponsible behaviour of individual patients. In order to eliminate all these anomalies, to ensure transparency and better management of waiting lists, to regulate the area of waiting periods in an integrated manner, to monitor the area of patient rights and duties, the Ministry has tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Patient Rights Act. Some articles of the existing law have been re-organized to address the inadequacy and inadequacy of the regulation so far, both with regard to access to health services within a reasonable time frame, the appropriateness of supervision in the field of patient rights and, last but not least, the area of patient duty. The adoption of the new law is one of the pillars for regulating waiting periods in health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u27	Mrs Marija Bachič has the floor. Prepare Mrs Ljudmila Novak and Dr László Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We are all aware that in health care we need changes, especially to regulate waiting periods, which also brings this novelty of the law. Or it's going in the right direction, actually, I don't know, somewhere yes and somewhere no. Certainly, we are not thrilled about the introduction of bureaucracy. I also do not know whether, as a Member, I can take the responsibility of deciding on the content that is crucially professional and relates to the way and organisation of work and communication with the patient in healthcare professionals. I believe that, as so far as they have been concerned, they can arrange the matter at the Ministry by working with the expert either with the Regulation or also with the Regulation. However, if I already have the opportunity and the opportunity to say and to discuss the proposal for a Patient Rights Act, I would expect that the proposals made by all those who know the issue will be taken into account. These are the professional public, the members of the working group and also the representative of the patient's rights. These are faced with the problem of waiting lists, ordering and similar daily, and they actually know this. It is the opinion of the latter that the changes will not save the desired, i.e. the reduction of waiting periods, the reduction in the number of waiting ones, the reduction in the number of second and tertiary referrals, which is also a problem, as indicated in the material, reduced the number of patients and reduced the effects of inappropriate referrals. Moreover, even a 30-minute wait before the waiting room, which sounds like it, I believe that it is necessary to arrange this within the institutions, especially if the patient has to wait until 930 days for it to take place, is unacceptable and dangerous. By consciously recording that the patient will be on the appointment within fourteen days, we are adding a new level of urgency very quickly. We already know that without the additional staff, doctors and other staff involved in patients, it will not be possible – in the light of the problems we have – probably not in 2020 and the generation of the coming babyboom. With all this, we are only additionally burdening administrative personnel and doctors. When we tell them to take over the additional tasks of waiting lists or e-ordering, whether it be through a nurse or a doctor with a patient himself, or triage travel documents with an increasing number of visits to the offices becoming older and sicker to the population, it is an unreasonable act. The law sets out what waiting lists the operators will henceforth lead, which will be subject to a new offence, increased even by 70%, and new penalties, and raises the question of the meaning and fairness of the criminal policy, which exclusively relates to the communication of data, the entry of data, the waiting list or the order book, which I am sure will not reduce waiting periods or improve access to health services, but vice versa; it will burden doctors, nurses who will have to devote themselves more to administration than patients. Here is also the question of who will pay the penalty — in a public institution, say? Public service, doctors don't. The penalty will be paid by private individuals or concessionaires. Or will the doctor and the nurse be able to arrange for all of this in their working hours, or will additional employment be needed here? The law imposes on the patient a justified absence and a complicated way of apologizing, the reasons for which the Minister approves on written request, the continuation of the national waiting lists on time, so that no one will see how many patients wait for one health service that they introduce and have all the other OECD countries. The introduction of belt safety measures in all operators, irrespective of the level of activity, primary, secondary or tertiary, and without the professional tying criteria, as already pointed out by the Ombudsman, does not lead to increased accessibility to health services. It surprises me, however, that we do not introduce or regulate the quality and safety of health activities in the law, as indicated in the starting point for the preparation of the Health Act first, and then in the Patients' Rights Act, now provided for in Article 11. In view of recent health events, we have all followed the likely complications at the Paediatric Clinic, and would expect the Ministry to come up with a proposal to finally establish an independent public agency for quality and safety. This, however, would be a measure to be discussed in Parliament and, of course, I would be happy to support it as a Member. Let me add to the end. All the solutions that have been put in place with regard to the introduction of waiting lists and the additional control over waiting lists and the penalties that have been amended by law, I am of the opinion that it could be regulated, as I have already said, by regulation or regulation. Therefore, I wonder how I or we, as a politician, can assess whether the waiting period for the level is necessary, very fast, fast and regular law; that the operator must enter 24 parameters in the waiting list; that eTraditioner is the only possible tool to clear waiting lists. This is an expert question that is regulated in all countries around the world by the laws of the ministries responsible for health! From now on, we will be deciding on this issue for the politicians. Who's gonna take responsibility if things don't work? And as we have said, they will not! Why not? Because the contractor only has 8 hours or a maximum of 12 hours if he is on duty. During this time, the operator must have time available for emergencies, they cannot be foreseen, and controls, fast and regular, after the new very fast. The mathematical calculation shows that, if 20% of emergencies and 40% of control cases per day, only 40% of regular and rapid periods remain open. If the percentage of emergency increases to 50%, then the operator of the other ordered patients should cancel. He'll have to decide between the checkers, the regulars and the fast ones, and he won't even see them! What's not to understand?Oh, my God! Why we need a new degree of urgency very quickly, because the current legislation stipulates that we can be patients on a regular basis for up to 3 months, that is to say, a travel agent quickly, that is also within one week, and up to 6 months – a guide regularly, that is also within four months. I have something else, it is unacceptable to compare the check-in with treatments for physiotherapy, dental care and in activities where the completion of multiple visits is considered. The profession warns that in addition to the first examination, intervention and examination, further consideration of the patient, where patients fill the lists with their visits and do not end treatment on the basis of a work assignment. These are very important activities such as physiotherapy, dental care, developmental clinics, clinical psychologists, logopedis and others where treatment ends after multiple treatments. Failure to comply with such proposals in the law indicates a lack of knowledge of the operation of the profession and treatment of patients at the Ministry of Health. "Well, that's enough. As indicated, the proposal has a type of ambiguity and confusion, and I hope that the Ministry will hear and accept all the proposals made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u29	Ms Ludmila Novak has the floor to prepare Dr. László Göncz and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary! I know you have a lot of will to do; I know you want to make things right, but unfortunately I hear many times that you have little heed for all the advice and to take into account those who will do your marriage to the best of their ability. As a result, there is great dissatisfaction and doubts as to whether the law will be brought to life in practice. We all agree that patients’ time is precious, and we all know how difficult it is to wait in the waiting room for half an hour if you are very sick. We all know that if you have a fast-growing disease, it can be fatal every day, and we all know how many lost hours, days, or months it can be, that is, working hours, working months, and in the end it is again paid by the state. That is why it is important that it is dealt with quickly, efficiently and successfully, including with physical therapy, as my predecessor said. From my own experience, I know how necessary and good it is to consider how quickly or faster a person recovers from surgery if he has successful physical therapy or all the treatments that serve him. But I'm afraid this marriage will be left with a letter on paper because it won't work. The patient's rights on paper, like healthy drinking water on paper, if there's no money to do it, to do the plumbing. I am also afraid that the error of patients will be taken into account too quickly, while health care will not be able to guarantee these patients' rights, but there will always be an excuse because we are already doubting that this law will be feasible in practice. What will happen if the Health Insurance Office does not approve any more interventions and there will be more patients who will have this right to an adequate waiting period? We all know that the Health Insurance Office approves a certain number of interventions to ensure that hospitals already have more than half of the hospital's losses so that they don't do interventions if they don't get paid, because then the hospital's management is responsible. What will happen after the patient exercises his right if, in fact, this is not possible? I've always been tempted by this thinking of some: public, private and so on. It is important for the patient to come as quickly as possible, to be treated with quality, to get well as quickly as possible, so that he can work on it. This should be our view of the patient, of health care. However, if this network is not well-managed and then hospitalized, then health care cannot provide all of these services if there is not enough material resources to do so, if the hospital network or health services for all things are not regulated. But it can lead to a lot of bad will again. There are already many cases of burden-sharing that we have to face. We also know of various shootings. Unfortunately, such terrible excesses do happen. Of course, we want this not to be the case, but that is why everything must be arranged at the primary level and therefore the Government, the Ministry of Health, must ensure the conditions for health care to be able to implement this law. The highest responsibility is certainly the government, the coalition, but I find that even the coalition law is not the most harmonised. Some said they wouldn't object to him, others said they'd support him in the first reading. I don't know how you agree if the coalition law isn't already harmonised. [[…]] I hope you will not then point out to the opposition that the opposition is to blame for your failure to implement these reforms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u31	Dr. Gonch has the word. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Let me start my implementation by, nevertheless, hoping that the bill, regardless of the complexity of this area, regardless of the problems in our health system, will have added value. That's why I'm going to support this law in my first reading. The question is whether this law is the one with which we need to start health reform is likely to be justified. I have some concerns about this myself, but now, whatever it is, we have this matter on the table and we need to discuss it. The solutions, as has already been highlighted several times today, are probably not ideal; they are probably a compromise of very strong coordination. There's a lot of interest here, we're all aware of that. However, I estimate that two objectives or two principles are certainly important; that is, the availability of patients to health care at a reasonable time – of course, here reasonable time can appear as a very relative category. I very much hope that the conditions governing this “reasonable time” will be perfectly well placed. And the other thing is certainly control over this system. Members who build on the law’s supervision text so far may still be loose. I hope that further coordination or second reading will result in an upgrade of this text. However, I listened very carefully to the comments on the origin of the law and also looked at the text from the point of view of the administrative burden of health personnel. There may be some problems here. So, is it true that by introducing certain additional administrative burdens we are making it even more impossible to shorten waiting lines? Please, I am not a member of the Health Committee myself, but please all those who can upgrade this text here and this is now just a policy at this stage, of course, to do so without a doubt. Even when comparing systems from other countries, the question is whether there is a good system for directing the choice of a better operator. This is also a question that undoubtedly comes to me, and I only hope that the text can be upgraded in this area as well. In short, as a non-expert for this area and aware that it is extremely difficult matter, as I have already stressed, I will support this proposal in the first reading of the law, but I hope that we are all aware that our health system is in fact very sick and that there will be no more corrective exams here. Therefore, the law should certainly be such that, at least to a certain extent, value added is added compared to the solutions that have been made so far. If in two months we find out in any way that the matter has gone in the wrong direction, then we will do a very bad thing for myself. But, as I have already said, I expect that, above all, the Health Committee at this last stage will do everything to make it different. So I'm going to support the law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacic and Mr Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Before any legislation is drawn up, we must first ask who it is preparing for. They need a doctor who's sick and not healthy. And if we came from the fact of how those who are in some way affected by the disease would feel, I'm sure today's amendment to the Patients' Rights Act would be better. In particular, I would focus on trying to reduce waiting types in any way. However, I can see that you've been playing a little bit of a game, how many ways you'd like to introduce your travels, from three to four to add to your burden, such as the administrative cadre that you're introducing, and, of course, also give you the opportunity not least to skip any waiting types. However, I think what has been said today is particularly an emphasis, even when I have listened to the coalition Members, that a waiting list must be set up that will be transparent, credible, I will not say transparent, because I am looking for a Slovenian word that everyone will understand. One in whom they will believe and, of course, be accessible to all under the same conditions and options, including a visit to a doctor. Is that how it is today? I think, Madam Minister, that patients are not aware enough of their rights, where the waiting period is longer than 6 months. Really. Because where the waiting period is longer than 6 months, they also have the opportunity to find a specialist outside the borders of Slovenia so that they can get their health back. Why are longer waiting periods longer than 6 months? I wonder why. A lady with problems, 75 years old, said in years, with problems with her legs. And she got a date from the phlebologist, a notice that she was in the waiting line longer than six months. And if that's okay with it. She didn't know what to do, 75 years old lady! Whether he agrees or not, he's waiting. And she got a date later this spring for the fall of the second year. 75 years old lady who went to the doctor because she needs a solution today or tomorrow; before this summer. Should we now send her abroad to seek, I don't know, assistance in Austria, in Croatia? If you understand. Then she said, “How much does it cost to help yourself?” But we need to know that 75-year-old women on average in Slovenia have pensions of less than €400, even if there are some farmers' pensions and then we are at €230 and are still willing to give some money to help themselves not to lie down at home and be a burden to their own. I think if we came from this and had such patients in front of us, I am sure that the proposal of today's law would actually be better. All too often we hear what is also happening on the IPP in Ljubljana. It says we have to be with the emergency in half an hour, urgent, in half an hour. And we know that people come to the IPP with directions, but we get messages, 10 hours, 8 hours to not say 12 hours to wait, even older. And they're lying in the hallways waiting, so I asked myself what they were waiting for, and I thought that one doctor was for the whole UKC to look at their test results. No, the doctors are there for the IPP! But then why do you have to wait? Even if it's four hours or five hours, I think it's unacceptable. I truly expected, Minister, that you would intervene in these areas, that these waiting times would be on the most critical – you probably know which are the most critical or narrow throats in health care, that things would begin to be resolved and eliminated there, and that this would change, and with this proposal – I am glad that Social Democrats too – will not move much. It would be expected that, in fact, not least at previous meetings of our colleague, both in the coalition and in the opposition, where they point out that the additional money provided in these spring months has virtually nothing changed the waiting types. Or they are, if you may have different information than we have acquired, but we need to know that as much as 50 plus millions of euros have been invested in health care and that people, those users who need it, have not felt it. You should really ask yourself who needs a doctor — a sick one. And work this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Dr Mitja Horvat. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Antonio Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear, distinguished minister with co-workers, co-workers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, it's a good day to greet you! The Coalition Treaty obliges us to establish an adjustment to the existing health system in the light of the strengthening of public health, taking into account its financial sustainability, with a view to maintaining as full a compulsory health insurance as possible. We commit ourselves to strengthening the health system in a way that will ensure that all insured persons have equal opportunities for health care when they need it and are entitled to it. Accessible, quality and effective health care will be the priority of this coalition. So in the coalition contract. However, we found ourselves in great difficulty in the field of waiting lists and waiting periods. The fact is that the population is getting older and our life expectancy is getting longer, and with the knowledge that patients are becoming more and more, it is essential to regulate patients' access to health services within a reasonable time frame, to arrange adequate supervision in the field of patient rights and obligations. We need to ensure adequate quality and safe medical care for patients in timely access to health services. The management of waiting lists must be transparent. Unreasonably postponed access to health care outside a reasonable period of time for a patient means the same as an unacquired right to health care. Despite the good wishes that a patient who needs help immediately or as soon as possible, following changes and additions to the Patient Rights Act, it appears that the law brings additional obligations to the patient, and it seems that a great responsibility for the waiting period seems to be passed on to the patients. We hope that after the initial problems of eProcurement and eTradition, the lists of waiting periods will be cleared and the objectives of amending and supplementing the Patients' Rights Act will be achieved through better organisation of the work of health teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Dr Mitja Horvat and Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go, Mr. Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today, we have a debate that is, in fact, familiar to all of us, because we have been engaged in these discussions for more or less one and a half years, and I must disappoint all those who in some way are discussing in their way, if there has been no reform for three years. Let me mention that this is only one part of what is called reform. Unfortunately, some people don't want to see it, they don't want to hear it, and they'll be saying the same thing by the end of the term. That's not why! That's why we're different, and that's why we're here in Parliament, not least we're sharing different opinions and trying to do what's best. I agree with one of my predecessors in the debate when he says, "I hope you will not blame the opposition for not taking the reform." Absolutely! The coalition doesn't actually have that right. It is, however, a fact that the coalition must respond to the many nonsense that we hear from the opposition; one, of course, I will say, planned, with clear logic and purpose, and the other, because of possible ignorance or ignorance. Today I have heard of a new term that we will begin to deal with, this is the so-called waiting time for the IPP. Please, people don't understand what you're talking about. By the way, the IPP 7 8 hours waiting period! I'm sorry, there's no waiting period when the patient is being treated for IPP. But this is now some new form we've heard today. But it's a fact that people need to be explained, you know. One thing is, if it comes to the E.R. – because we are clear: for a citizen, when he comes to the E.R., everything is really urgent for him, and we all know that that's not true. The IPP is waiting for the trauma, as it is waiting for the emergency medical service. The IPP is specific at all, because there are various internalist cases that are in some state that is still for the doctor until he examines it or waits for it to develop, I will say, a certain situation, completely unknown. We have another problem with IPP that we do not have enough proper conditions – if we are talking about Ljubljana's, this moment's biggest – that we do not have the right conditions, that these patients do not wait in waiting rooms, I will say, observation rooms, but are waiting many times in the hallway. But this isn't a waiting period, I'm sorry. Don't fool people! The Patient Rights Act does not solve such a case as you mentioned on the IPP and is in fact a kind of deception. It is, of course, an urban question raised by colleague Iva Dimic – how much and how much the waiting species have been reduced. Well, that's a big question. Of course, I also expect the Minister to speak on this subject, particularly for a reason, because some governments back then have used this mechanism to try to reduce waiting types by additional means. However, this is only a short-term measure. It's not a long-term measure. And this practice has also shown, if you remember, in 2005 and 2006, the government decided, due to large waiting lines, to take serious financial interventions with a direct input in order to reduce waiting types. Remember, I can say, for one year, 40 million were invested, for two years together, 2005 and 2006, 60 million euros - translated from the then billions of dollars, because today the euro is much more understandable and the new generations do not even know what tolars are. What do we have today, given the money then invested? Yes, the same situation, which means only one additional explanation that these are all short-term measures and also those measures to reduce waiting lines by intervention, with financial injections are an equally rapid measure for short-term impact. Long-term changes are therefore needed which will have far-reaching effects. This is what no government has actually done so far, as it is necessary to amend legislation and, above all, the functioning of models to ensure that there are no more waiting types. One of these issues is certainly also the Law on Patient Rights, which speaks directly about this issue. If we look at the situation, I'm going to the biggest center in Slovenia, the Clinical Center, what this actually means in finance. We have planned additional revenues of a billion 696 thousand to reduce waiting species. I am speaking for last year and for the last three, four months, given that there was still a strike in the middle and that they did not really have the opportunity to carry it out all year long and they did it practically, if I am not wrong, if I have the right data, it was realized at 74%. I'm talking about the whole relationship. As for the Clinical Center, a million 191 thousand 678 euros were spent to reduce waiting lines. That's why the question that colleague Iva Dimic is asking is, and I'm going to be a little more precise, and I'm going to ask even more directly questions than colleague Dimic. What are the first data after the introduction of eTravel? What are the real waiting times? How far away are they from the old database? In fact, we have one problem; the problem is that we are all relying on some of the Excel tables that they are doing at NIJ, there are some pre-war ways of collecting data from the operators, and I am serious about whether the data from NIJZ is the same as the data from the operators or what we see in the realization of what is being paid from the health register. Personally, I'm sure the three of you, when you put them together, don't hold on to serious judgment. And that's why today – I'm sorry to have to touch this miserable NIJ in such a short time, but – I'm sorry to ask why we have NIJ. Why do we have an institution at the national level that employs between 250 and 490 people – because they do not know exactly how many employees they have – so that we can get some data that, in fact, the Ministry and the National Assembly cannot help themselves in the debate themselves? That is why I ask, Minister, if you could get Members and Members to answer this question. I am sure that the data are significantly more favourable, but it is not satisfactory in any way compared to what we are actually saying in practice. Why do I keep saying that? I stress, in particular, that there is one thing we need to be aware of, even today in my views, that the reforms have been gone for three years and will not be, in fact we have no confidence, we do not believe and so on. Look, you can't do that. Just not. It is true, however, that I expect constructive criticism from the opposition, and I believe that there has been a lot of questions on the table today, and that is true, so I do not object. However, of course, I want to have results and it is important for me that we spend significantly more money for this year than we did last year, which is at least 2 times 18 million if we are talking about 2017 and 2018. In addition, we must not forget the additional funds we receive from the point of view of traineeships, amounting to 23 million, for which funds will actually be released from the health treasury. So we're talking about a serious financial contribution, so we can fix what needs to be done. In the end, let me put it this way. You know, it's hard to talk about what someone says, the marriage we have to ask ourselves who we're working for. [[…]] “If we worked for the sick, then this law would take some serious steps” – I agree with the criticisms or serious arguments on individual articles, what does not fit or what we are actually satisfied with, but I cannot agree to the discussion that if we were working for the sick, the law would be better. I hope you really don't think the law was written for the healthy, otherwise I'm gonna put the ironically opposite of the answer. Because one who thinks that way has a problem with the spirit or has a sense of humor. Therefore, I simply cannot agree to such a level of discussion; I agree only with the arguments. But I understand the provocation and the challenge, and I like it in my own way, but sometimes it has to be seriously explained so that we don't have any serious problems later. In the end, let me just point out one thing. With regard to the results already in September, I think that when we have the first half-year data and when we have serious results, I expect the trend to turn down, as far as the waiting species are concerned. But he who dreams and thinks that we're going to make waiting lines zero, or he has no idea of waiting species, or he thinks he's going to gain something when he convinces me otherwise I don't know who the waiting species will be. The waiting species exist in the most developed countries with the most modern system in the field of health care, so our trend is primarily that the patient or insured person gets the service, as it belongs to him in the situation in which he is. If it is urgent, it must be dealt with as soon as it is ordered, as all normal procedures do. I'm also sure there's no doctor interested in having a waiting room full. But if he's interested, then we have a problem with the doctor, which I don't believe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic was misunderstood, but before I give her my word, I would only warn Mrs Jelko Godec that the next one is on. Here you go, Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Maybe I was misunderstood or my colleague Möderndorfer took advantage of it and said we had no idea what was going on at the IPP, and that we could not compare waiting lines to trauma, to dermatovenerological outpatients and so on. I know it can't be compared because I've put everything through, and I know what it's like. However, the IPP is intended for emergency, emergency and patient care to be considered as soon as possible without waiting for any blood and urine tests for 8 hours. That's what I'm talking about. And it seems to me that you have to look over there to see why this is happening. And it's true, they don't need a doctor. Sick! I am still convinced that we are not focusing too much on matters, and I trust my colleague Gantar of Desus, who said that the changes envisaged would not reduce the waiting types. He's a man who can say first because he meets with them, with patients, every day, and he knows what the system is like inside of it. And I fully trust that because he knows where the bottlenecks are, he knows what to do, but you obviously don't listen in the coalition to listen to people who get to know each other and know what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Tomaž Gantar. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I must say, the populism of the Minister of Health of Miley Kolar Celarc is not over. In view of what is before us today, this law on patient rights is nothing but populism. When you get a marriage, you'll see what's better for the patient now, where the waiting periods will really shorten, and when you go through the law, you'll find that it's a number of administrative obstacles to health care providers and that it's promised to patients in the infirmary to wait up to 30 minutes, except in certain cases. However, as has already been said by some of my colleagues, the Minister has not begun to deal with matters such as the lack of staff in hospitals, the drowning of the debts of our largest hospitals, the good operation of hospitals or the management of hospitals, the Health and Health Insurance Act, the Health Action Act, which is a complete breakdown, and finally the Medical Services Act, which we have received at present or will still be dealt with in these days, or it is dealt with in the Government following an emergency procedure. The law, which is important for the medical service, for the exercise of health care, is given by emergency procedure and the Law on Patients' Rights is a complete failure. Madam Minister and, of course, the coalition, at the very beginning of the explanation of this law, you have written exactly what we have warned the opposition that the programme of shortening waiting periods does not have the desired effects. You wrote this on the other hand: “A number of measures have been taken between 2011 and 2015, but they did not have the expected effects on the reduction of waiting and waiting periods, such as the allocation of earmarked funds to reduce waiting periods in specialist clinics”. Today, however, we are listening to how much new money we will spend in shortening the waiting period, that is, the money we will take again, or how much it will cost taxpayers or what it means on the other hand. But if we're going through the law ahead of us, Osira, maybe this will happen sooner. [[…]] The Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which we have, although it is now a new establishment in the law, for example, found that when listing health care providers do not comply with the provisions of the Patient Rights Act and the Rules because they are not qualified enough. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think they'll be qualified to do that? Now, according to the new law, will they respect the Law on Patient Rights and order as they should? Who's making this happen? Probably inspectors who have already been pre-written, how many cases will they have to solve. So it's already predetermined here what these inspectors are going to be - or because it's normal to determine, but obviously they know exactly where they're going. I wonder, once again, whether the new healthcare provider will be qualified enough to respect the Patients' Rights Act. That's one thing. If we go to the law, then I will return to the inspection service, because you anticipate 4 new jobs and additional money for these people or for wages, that is to say, additional money probably from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I want to know how this law has been set up several times to shorten waiting periods. In what way, where, when, who? You write that the patient has the right to respect his time. I agree. The doctor also has the right to respect his time. Where is this written in the law or in what law will you consider this to be a respectable quality of work, or a requirement for quality work with patients, that a doctor be given quality work, and that you are not building on populism alone, that the patient waits 30 minutes? We are talking in 2017 and 2017 about how patients should be ordered or how they should be allowed to order. One cannot believe that a new order is required, not directly and by mail, but even by telephone. I don't know, but it's electronic in at least one form. [[…]] Madam Minister, I don't think we have anything to talk about on the phone at all at this point in time, because there is already a phone call. I've ordered many phone calls so far, and now you're asking or you need to make a phone call. In 2017, when we should talk about apps on mobile phones about electronic ordering, real electronic ordering. You're talking about electronic ordering or then you're talking about e-procurement. Today we've heard that eTraditioner removes paper form. Have any of you already made an electronic appointment with an e-mail? Did you? I told you last time how things were going. I got a white paper that I went to see a specialist who told me to put it in the mail, put it in the mail, and I got my mail back with a date a week ago. Is this an electronic order for you? And now the patient is supposed to have no further contact with this. He's supposed to be ordered by a doctor. I ask again, I also asked the question of what e-ordering is, what is now true. Then, I don't know, I'm the only one who got the paper form? Still. And also a paper response from a specialist. That's not an e-order! E-ordering is, as it is written, so that you can be ordered by your doctor or yourself, it is not known now, because if a doctor can do this better than a patient, it should be done by a doctor. The doctors said they're doing e-ordering, but you have to close the app five times, open it to work at all, and then they close the movie at twelve and they don't order anymore because it just doesn't work. There are initial problems, I agree, but don't say that e-ordering works because you still have paper form, and I can't agree that one of the Members tells me that there is no paper form anymore because it is. But if I got the paper form on e-ordering, then something is wrong – and with my doctor and with a specialist. Or the whole system. That's one thing. With regard to waiting time, Article 14a states that it shall not exceed 30 minutes. Now, see, the limit in the preceding paragraph does not apply when an individual healthcare professional or a co-worker who performs a service offers emergency medical care — which is normal — and where before that patient is another patient who needs longer treatment, so that a healthcare professional must inform patients in the waiting room. So, now they're going to go out, I don't know who's going to walk, the nurse, and she's talking about how much longer someone's going to wait, or how is this thing going to go? I don't know, it means extra work, go out and make peace with people and say, you're about to get your turn, and so on. I'm curious. For example, between eight and nine o’clock in the morning, the doctor is working as a medical emergency, which means that all patients who are scheduled at eight are moved to nine o’clock, which means that everyone moves to nine o’clock. That's how I understand here. Eight to nine can't take another patient than the one who needs emergency medical attention, right? This means that the one who was commissioned at eight will be waiting for emergency medical care to be performed, which is perfectly normal. That's understandable. In this case, no patient will be late for the appointment, because even if it is scheduled to be scheduled for 9:15 a.m., it will not come at 9:00 a.m., but at 10:00 a.m., because the matter will move. I would like to know what you will do with the cases that will be ordered for example at one o’clock in the afternoon and will be delayed due to emergency medical care, for example, at two o’clock or three o’clock — what will the doctor say to such a person? Come tomorrow, I don't know, you're still out of order with emergencies and so on. It's already chaos, and then there's gonna be even more chaos, and in the meantime, doctors will have to apologize to patients for waiting more than 30 minutes and why they're not. This thing doesn't really change anything. If they don't settle inside the matter in the health care home itself or in the health care institution, article 14a won't do you any good, because the doctor will always find an excuse, not an excuse, but he will say, like this, you can't wait 30 minutes, the minister wrote it, so let her answer. And you will answer, Madam Minister, for these 30 minutes, because doctors simply will not be able to. Since you have not yet adjusted or staffed the same personnel, I say that health reform is not regulated, including for this reason. However, you require doctors to organize themselves so that the patient does not wait more than 30 minutes, except in these cases. I want to know what that's gonna look like in the infirmary. If medical care is necessary in between — which is normal — once again — what will happen to those ordered patients on the edge? They'll send them home. “The degree of urgency shall be determined in accordance with the patient’s maximum health benefit, taking into account reasonable time.” Now, tell me what a reasonable time is — otherwise it says — how you will define reasonable time. What kind of patient is this? What kind of doctor is this? That you have written the stages of urgency – so now we have a new level of urgency very quickly. You wrote in your explanation that there is no such thing, that's what my fellow Vrtovec told you. There's something else in marriage like this, we can go look for them, but well, that's one of them, because now it's a new stage of urgency. At the urgency level, look, you added one more, so you will increase waiting periods. As was the last time in one office, once again when my doctor told me that there is no problem with the degree of urgency and quickly, the problem is with a degree of regularity or with checks. This is where waiting periods are accumulated because home doctors or those who write the travel guides write so many travel guides below the emergency and fast that you simply can’t get to the checkup or at some reasonable time or on a regular basis. And now you've added very quickly, which is very attractive, you could write, very populist, if you want, but you've filled this part in until those three, six months. There will be most reviews here and waiting periods will be extended. That's another thing. The healthcare provider may carry out a triage of the document sent, within three days of its receipt. If I understand that correctly, the operator of the activity will receive a guide on which it is written, why you are sent to a doctor, and will perform a triage. “If the level of urgency indicated on the travel document and the level of urgency determined at the time of the trial differ, the level of urgency determined at the time of the trial shall be applicable.” So now a specialist doctor who gets a travel pass says well, on the travel pass is written very quickly, I do not agree with this, because what it says on the travel pass is not under very fast, it rejects you and says quickly or regularly and informs the home doctor and the patient. I would like to know how a travel specialist and what is written on the travel document can determine whether the level of urgency is the same as that described on the travel document. Let's say it says spinal imaging on the travel agent. How does the healthcare provider determine whether or not it is a yes or a no? Tell me, Madam Minister, please listen and tell me how a specialist on the basis of what is written on the leaflet can find out whether I am very quick to paint the spine if I am sent by a home doctor, how a specialist in the hospital can determine if this is really very fast. Because now that you're there, he gets a travel agent and he says what's wrong with you, and he asks you when you get a checkup, and so on and so forth, and now he's going to be in three days when he gets a travel pass, he says, "This is, this is not." I don't know, because maybe I'm wrong, you'll say, these are probably I don't know, or doctors are so experienced that when they see up there they say, but this isn't, or this is maybe even faster than it should be. [[…]] The next thing is, I already said that this is, we're talking about phone ordering today and so on, it's funny. Now you're saying that because you're allowing more phone calls, you're going to shorten waiting periods. That's a hair puller. 15.b Article, management of the waiting list. When I read, when I had to tell the patient that there would be no, or how these matters were going on, that the patient or on behalf of a family member could cancel the period not later than ten days before the delivery of the healthcare service, only once in the same referral and only in the context of the posting of the urgency rate, or quickly or regularly. Again, the subsequent cancellation of the term is permissible only for the patient's objective reasons, as determined by the Minister responsible for health, with the patient's reason for failure in writing. Madam Secretary, did any of the students write this? Because when I read that, I remembered the rules we had at school. First there was an oral admonition, then there was a written admonition, then there was reproof, then there was a written reproof, and then there was a reproof before the disfellowshipping. That's exactly what it says when someone can apologize, just like at school. You can miss school once, but only in these cases. And you will determine objective reasons. Minister, you don't know what objective responsibility is. Because if we knew what an objective responsibility was, we wouldn't be sitting there right now, but there would be someone else, basically, you as a minister should have given up for objective reasons already. That's how you shorten waiting periods, that's not going to work. I agree, however, that patients take the responsibility that if they do not come, that – without being punished – I have been waiting for the fines, how much longer to pay – now that I have read. But I'm wondering if the patient cancels, so no one's gonna fill that empty space. Does it say that in there because maybe I missed it? Who fills the empty space? How, then, is this regulated in electronic work? And if it happens two days earlier, you get sick for angina, flu, I don't know what, and you can't come or even come to the hospital and they check you out and they say, and today you can't be operated, because the blood count or I don't know what doesn't fit and you have to go home, so this service isn't done, so who's replacing this empty space? With regard to when a patient must obtain a test, it says here that he must receive it immediately or within a few days, unless it is technically justified that he cannot obtain it. Here again, we can look for how doctors will justify not giving the results immediately, because sometimes not all of them depend on them, but they cannot give the results because they do not come in time from another institute, and so on. But good. In Article 40, you have the right to a second opinion, which states in the last paragraph: “The application of the right to second opinion in the public health service network is governed by the law governing healthcare and health insurance.” Where is this marriage? This marriage is old now, you're preparing a novelty of this law. What's it gonna say in there, in the Health and Health Insurance Act? When there's a new marriage, will things be different or will they be the same as they are now? As far as surveillance is concerned. In your financial impact assessments, you wrote the following to employ four health inspectors for the purpose of carrying out the inspection, and you have also made a financial assessment after the years 2018 to 2020, what it costs or what this value is, a financial assessment, and that this money will be provided directly from the budget. Now I, Madam Minister, am interested in the fact that the supervision of the implementation of the Law on Patient Rights is carried out by the Ministry of Health, and given that we have a criminal body, this is the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, who now has no specific powers, as you can see for yourself, so he cannot write documents, acts, can't go into depth, can't do it, can't do it, can he just find out if you're going to transfer these people from the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, where you now have people, to this new inspectorate – a new one, it's not really new, but it's already existing – whether it's new jobs that you've written. What will you do with these people you have at the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia now? That's what the Ministry of Health says. On the side of the Ministry of Health writes: The supervisory and criminal authority, supervision of the implementation of the Law on Patient Rights is carried out by the Ministry of Health, the criminal authority is the Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, supervision of the work of the representative, until the establishment of the provinces, carried out by the Ministry of Health and so on. Tell me, what's going to happen to this inspector? What's going to happen to these people? Will you reclassify you so that they can write fines and so on, or will you hire completely new people? Additional employment at the Ministry of Health, where there are so many people, or what are you going to do with these? Are these new or are they old? Since it doesn't say anything in here, it just says we'll have a new inspectorate. The next issue is the work of the Commission for the Protection of Patient Rights. Under the Patient Rights Act, we also have the Commission of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Patient Rights. This Commission shall submit its opinion each year, which shall record what and how, at the second stage of the complaint, the patient's rights. The first stage shall be carried out by the operator and the second stage by the committee. In 2015, the Commission drew attention to a number of matters which I was interested in whether they were taken into account in the law. One issue they have written is that it is important to note that the statutory deadlines are too short, as it is impossible to convene a Senate hearing within the prescribed time limits and to coordinate the presence of all — from operators, representatives to members of the Senate — since they all have other work obligations. Therefore, they cannot decide quickly enough because they cannot call the hearing so quickly, and they wrote: "The legislator should consider extending deadlines because they are generally in breach." Hence, they conscientiously say that they cannot appeal to violate these marriage arms. I wonder whether the Ministry in these laws or in any other law has allowed the Commission for the Protection of Patient Rights to extend these deadlines and to decide within normal time limits. At the same time, the Commission has already pointed to the work in 2015 on the following issue: "The Commission has also addressed the matter of medical examination at the time of the beginning of the work performed by the medical doctor. In this case, the patient does not have the constitutional option to choose a doctor of the right speciality, since companies contract with certain doctors, while violating patients' freedom to choose a doctor.” I would like to know whether you have taken this opinion into account in patients' rights to allow a patient the free choice of medical examination, not in the case of the employer's choice, but in the case of the one he chooses. Because they wrote, as I can see, there are also lawyers in there that this is a violation of constitutional rights. They wrote that they would suggest that this area, the legislation, be regulated and that those patients who are at the same time job seekers be given a medical examination by a selected and not designated doctor. In 2016, the same Commission for the Protection of Patients’ Rights noted that it was in fact unable to work between May and September because it did not have adequate administrative assistance. The Commission for the Protection of Patient Rights, which deals with patients' rights at a second level, could not work because it did not have administrative assistance. Administrative assistance, Madam Minister, is provided by the Ministry of Health. At this point, I ask you why the RS Commission for the Protection of Patient Rights did not provide administrative assistance to prevent them from exercising control or carrying out their second-degree mission. You're going to give them this as a new one? Are they gonna be able to protect those patients' rights that you wrote down in this law? At the same time, they point again to the free choice of a doctor during medical examination at the time of the onset of work. Again, also for 2016. They also have problems with the appointment of a Senate because they cannot convene meetings or meetings because they cannot convene all those in the Senate. The members of the Senate are appointed by the Ministry or Government. How will you handle these matters, Madam Minister? Because if you write a new law on patient rights, write down what are the rights and duties of the patient, write down what are the duties of the doctor, write even how you will carry out the inspection, and ask me if you will then really allow the Commission to protect the patient's rights to carry out its work smoothly, so that you will provide at least administrative support to her if not the other. Here's to the end. Today there has also been a lot of talk about how much new money there will be under this law, but I do not know which other laws, which are still given for waiting periods. Minister, have you also been able to reduce the cost of material in Slovenian hospitals? Were you trying to save that money there? What measures have been taken in this area to reduce the cost of material if you also want office material, which is found to have been three times too much money, and 12% on a particular medical material? And we have also proved to you on the vein braces that it is possible to reduce from a thousand 200 euros to 200 euros. Have you tried to reduce the cost of material in other areas? These veins are one of 20,000 areas. Did you try 19 thousand 999 to lower your costs? All you're talking about is extra money, but I'm wondering if you're trying to cut costs by law or by measures. We would expect not only to talk about how quickly patients will turn out, but also about whether they will be treated qualitatively. Is that why the doctors are in such a hurry to get their patients checked? And we'd expect an independent quality agency here, says someone who has control over the quality of work. Once again, I wonder if you've tried to reduce the cost of the material. Because given the way you have issued a call for live birth control on the European portal, I don't think you want to do that. You have published the invitation to tender on the European portal half in English, half in Slovenian, and it is interesting that only the part that speaks about the professional criteria or what you want to obtain is published in Slovenian, but everything else is in English. I always advocate Slovenian language, but on the European portal, Madam Minister, you have a tab in the original language, and then you have it in English, but you have published everything in English, except what is absolutely necessary for the supplier to know is in Slovenian. It's like we're hitting on other people's suppliers. At the same time, the next. If it is true that the Medical Service Act is coming to the National Assembly and that you will demand it by emergency procedure, I wonder if we are in a war state that you want to make the Medical Service Act an emergency. And when do we get the Health and Health Insurance Act? Because that's gonna tell you where you're going to take the money, whether it's enough for health care and so on. And you give populism laws like this patient's rights law, where you tell the patient that he won't wait more than 30 days and that the waiting period will be reduced. They will not, Madam Minister, because if you do not solve both funding and human resources matters, reducing the cost of healthcare material and so on, you will not save the waiting period. Just as you're not with extra money now, so you won't with this law, but you can say the coalition whatever it wants, but I think all you're going to do is at least this law on patient rights, as well as the Health Act, just a populist measure. But if people believe you, that's how we'll see it in a while, because in fact, the waiting period, if you look at the data again, it's growing. But if NIJS does not provide the right information, as said his colleague Jani, then it is your turn to arrange these matters for NIJ to give the right information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Gantar and Mr Ivan Prelog. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues! Some say or say that this is the beginning or part of a health reform. I'm going to be very direct and very honest here. Ladies and gentlemen, we will contribute to health reform first and most of all if we go to early elections. There's no agreement. There's no agreement on this marriage. I don't have to be a doctor, and I don't have to do mathematical models, how this law on patient rights will shorten waiting periods, which are abnormal in this country, is enough to listen to my respected colleague and doctor Tomaž Gantar, who claims that this law will not contribute to shortening waiting periods. And I trust him. I don't look at the political color here because it's the place where the profession needs to be unified. And here's the problem. This is precisely the problem, because this law was obviously created only within the Ministry of Health and was actually strictly ignored. Comrade Vrtovec here read the position of the Medical Chamber, the text is indeed somehow, seem, unhappy remained in Chapter Roman 6. The government probably would have wanted it, or the Ministry to have it erased. But anyway, in a way, it's also fair that he's in here, that we actually see that the Medical Chamber – and I'm also asking what the performers are doing. Because if we can put on a travel document, we can write on the guide what's quick, what's urgent, what's ultra fast – if anyone thinks that we're going to solve waiting times, then he's wrong. Then he's wrong. On the other hand, on the resource side, if you want, performers, on this performing side we will do nothing, then it is really one populism. It's hard for us to use such hard criticism, but it's just how we feel about it. And many weeks ago, the presidents of the smaller coalition partners said after or before the coalition summit, because it does not matter that we are too close to the elections so that we can carry out any more reforms. They must have been thinking about health reform, too. And here both SD and Desus had concerns in the position of the parliamentary groups. I don't want to gloat, colleagues and colleagues, when I see and analyze that there is no unity within the coalition, but the facts are facts. For a long time, however, I could also talk about the profession and the opinion of the profession. I don't know which of the professional associations this law even supported. It is true that I am not following this area in detail, I am not a member of the Health Committee, but I will also read something and I will be happy if I receive an answer to this question. A key question here is asked to all citizens. Will this law actually help to reduce waiting periods after the adoption of this law and make it easier for patients to be dealt with as a result of the law? The data we have online, the update from the first May of this year, I am deeply concerned. We have, if I look at it, 13 specialist outpatients. In Slovenia we have about 127 thousand waiting for the first outpatient specialist review. Of these 127 thousand waiting for the first medical examination of more than 13,000 waiting period, while for other health services waiting around 11,000. Of these, more than a quarter or 25% are over the allowed period. I know there's probably no medical system where there wouldn't be patients waiting above the age limit, but when we look at the proportions of patients waiting over the age limit, we have to be very concerned. And as legislators, and above all, the Government should have taken appropriate measures here long ago. I understand health reform as a collective, as a set of laws, because we know what they are, which should be aligned with the profession and, of course, first within the coalition and, of course, would be ideal with the opposition. These are too important subsystems in our country that a ministry or a party would push forward. Of course, today's debate also offers a broader view, because we are talking about a reform that is not. I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago, when we had a similar debate here, one of the SMC Members quoted Prof. Dr Igor Gregorič, who is the leading cardiologist in Houston, and said there that Mr Gregorič was in the position that concessions should be abolished. This was an abuse at the time, an abuse because he did not say everything that Mr Gregorič proposed to Slovenia. First, of course, it proposes a fundamental health reform and that the concession should be abolished or given to all. And he advocates that a private part of health care should become part of the public system. I don't have time to take instructions from his interview or his view of how to improve the health system in Slovenia, but I feel like I'm reading the New Slovenia program or health reform that we've prepared together with a number of experts and we've rescheduled it on several round tables. Because only when we are in public, I stress that the public health system that we are advocating in Nova Slovenije is involved in the private sector, such as the centre of Ziva in Tišina in Prekmurje – does the minister not allow him to work? [[…]] You need to take a look at that, fellow coalition. The Minister does not allow them to work, and the private doctor has invested 600,000 of his euros. 600 grand and he can't work for the good of people. Here's the problem. And so first of all, the reform in my head, or I conclude with the first statement, we are going to the elections and we are waiting for some new political constellation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomaž Gantar has the floor. Prepare Mr Ivan Prelog and Mr Jernej Vrtovec. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! I have been mentioned several times in view of the fact that I have also said in my presentation that this law will not shorten the waiting period, which is true, but that was not the purpose of this law. In fact, this law interferes with another area that is closely and closely linked to waiting periods, which is in the area of waiting lists, which is, let us say, one of the key parts of this law. Here I must say that we have been very cooperative and in many ways aligned with the Ministry of Health, and I would even hope to say that perhaps some other law would have been a step further if we had worked together in this way. This does not mean that we agree with everything that is written, but that some of the key things were relevant. There are also a few things that have been mentioned in today's debate, and I must say that I am still concerned in this law in some areas that they will be difficult to implement. Determine that someone should not wait more than 30 minutes before the door, yes, of course it is possible to do this when you have a relatively small number of patients and when you order them for new and new investigations, of course with new visits. And there is already a difference between public health and what they do, as you call them, private people or concessionaires, who often do more in one review, at least in my field. But if I specifically order it and take it for myself in the public infirmary for 10 minutes, and then the next time, one week or one month, I order it for example for an endoscopic investigation and two months later for an ultrasound, it will come three times instead of looking at it for the first time, as it is regularly done outside the public health network. This means losing the advantage of the public health system also in this way and, of course, the additional burden on the patient, who has to come more than once. I still think that if it's possible, it's better to do it at one checkup, even if that's why someone's gonna wait 35 minutes or 40 minutes. By probably not being able to afford to look at significantly fewer patients in the regular infirmary. I have already mentioned over-administrative administration, and in fact it points this law very much in this direction, which I think is a shame. It is necessary to know that all these waiting lists and everything we are talking about to some extent today are due to extreme or unacceptable long waiting periods. It is also my opinion that it is reasonable to arrange that, until now, at the level of the State, they have not been regulated, that there has often been double and that the number of waiting has not been cleared, and so on. So there is absolutely an argument to make some order in this area. On the other hand, it is true that what is most difficult for patients and what should be a priority solution so that they do not wait too long. Changing the level of urgency or adding a new level of urgency I am advocating very quickly. The previous proposal does not, but for a simple reason, because we as doctors were often in a dilemma in our work, or then leave someone with some further diagnostics that could occur in two, three months, or abuse the instance necessarily to force someone to do so within 24 hours, even when it is not necessarily necessary. That is why I find this intermediate stage meaningful, not in the context of shorter waiting periods, but in order to make our work easier in the hospital. But it bothers me, I can say this from practice, given that every time I get angry again in the infirmary, which I still do, that the profession here somehow loses its meaning, that we want to administer everything from point to point, every line, every letter. This means that what happened before, and it was perfectly normal for you to have a few patients and a child in front of the infirmary, a baby crying for an hour — today his sister is afraid to take him on because she will pay her sentence. In our hospital, she received a warning before her resignation because she made such a mistake, which, I think, is really the result of the far-fetchedness that we're doing with such a law. And I only hope that this will sooner or later turn out to be pointless, and especially as unnecessary, that in other ways, with other laws, other measures will only solve waiting times. Then it will turn out to be unnecessary and irrelevant in many ways. In some ways, it is also taken, let us say, innovation, an opportunity for individual operators, in which they also differ – that one is better and the other is worse. Unfortunately, you can't define, demand and standardize everything in the law because it's nonsense. And we have too much of this nonsense in health legislation. If I look at today's work in the infirmary and years ago, I regret it and actually deal with the patient less, I write e-mails that are such that at the end of the day the patient gets a sprinted letter, that it's an electronic order, I write electronic recipes, then we'll order patients, those who want it, and they'll look for terms. Please, this healthcare staff will continue to discourage the desire and satisfaction of working in the treatment of patients, which is extremely important and what patients feel. And that's why they prefer treatment if they can, where they're offered it. However, health workers are increasingly dissatisfied, and this is a problem that we are causing through over-administrative administration. On the other hand, I think that there should be a law, such as the Law on Patient Rights, that such a law should be dealt with primarily by giving the patient the opportunity and the opportunity to decide where, in what way, what information will he choose the best contractor. The one he wants to be treated for, which he trusts on the basis of some data. This is not regulated by this law, which, in my opinion, is harmful and bad, because it is actually focusing primarily on this abnormal state that we are witnessing to. But this is an abnormal situation as a result of all that we should resolve with legislation. If we want public institutions to behave rationally, and let us say more kindly – I will not say responsibly because I believe that most try to treat patients properly and honestly, but more rationally and with kindness – to patients, there is probably a lot of change in the health system. Undoubtedly, a way of funding that should reward not only better individuals but also better institutions. If someone has more patients because he is recognised by the general public as being very good or excellent because he has excellent experts, then it is also likely that funding needs to be adjusted and, last but not least, this is a good incentive for someone who is worse today to do something different. There are no such incentives today. Nowhere. Not for an individual, not for a system, not for hospitals, not for institutions. For no one. This is, without doubt, one of the key problems, including the way this money is distributed, which is still planned. It is hard to imagine that, with this essential problem of ours, which makes these laws necessary, the real waiting times in the public system will be significantly better in the short term. The extra money itself doesn't help, it's already turned out in the last year. Public institutions have not even been able to make full use of it. I'm afraid the results could be even worse this year. It is hard to imagine that most of these institutions, which drown in losses that are growing larger, not always smaller, will impose additional burdens, additional costs, will pay more in terms of the agreed arrangements with doctors and there is not enough money. That's not gonna work. He just doesn't drink water. In order to prevent the problem from being solved, it is also true that we do not yet have accepted hospital arrangements today, which is a terrible problem, because the hospital should know by January how many patients it will be able to look at as long as it is full of what it is, how much it will get, how it will work, what the conditions are. And these conditions are still not clear for hospitals today. It is said that the agreement will probably be adopted, I do not know whether it will now or will be later, the fact is that it should have been long ago. But this means that hospitals will actually start dealing with waiting periods after the agreement is made, in the meantime they will allow, so to speak, September. In the last four months, however, they should make up for anything they have not done before. That's impossible. That's not working. That is why I say that this problem of solving waiting periods is likely to come from behind — not underestimating the importance of waiting lists, which are part of the problem, but a smaller part of the problem. For the time being, most of the problem remains open. Therefore, I fear that even after the adoption of this law, which we have said we support at least in the first reading, and we hope that something else can change by the time we adopt it, we will eventually achieve that there will be waiting periods, but all will be recorded professionally. My opinion is, of course, that's not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Prelog has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you. Greetings to all present! It should be borne in mind that waiting periods in health are an important political issue in many European countries and in Slovenia there is no exception in this respect. Waiting periods are an integral part of each healthcare system, in particular within the framework of public health care. The programme objectives of the SMC and the coalition commitments are a clear point of view that the Government must act towards strengthening public health. In the area of waiting periods, it is therefore crucial to find a way to manage them effectively and in the long term. In order to be effective in health care and to provide patients with quality health care, we need to have a sound funding mechanism, a well-trained and adequately paid workforce, a regulated infrastructure and logistics to provide services, reliable information on the basis of which decisions and policies are taken in the covered areas of the health sector. The New Law on Patient Rights directly interferes with the right to respect the patient's time. This novel introduces a number of innovations, including control over the management of waiting lists, the responsible person for keeping waiting lists and consistency to respect the scheduled deadlines by patients, all with a view to making the best possible use of the health teams in the system and allowing patients to have reasonable time limits for medical treatment. I fear that the ideal law on patient rights will never be possible to create, but I welcome the bill and hope that it will shorten waiting periods in health care for a long time and contribute to more transparent management of waiting lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irena Grošelj Košnik has the floor to prepare the mags. Bojana Muršič and Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go, Mrs. Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry and all others present, colleagues and colleagues! In our health care, many unresolved serious matters have taken place in the quarter of the century, and many of us say that the health system has become a very serious patient. Of course, patients feel it especially in the event of an excessive proportion of unacceptable waiting periods. Moreover, quality and well-organised treatment is also important for patients. These are actually two key things that concern all citizens. The law before us is, of course, part of an integral series that follows and will address these two key issues, so this law means only one step towards the gradual recovery of this system, of course this law does not constitute a health reform. It is important to me in the approach to how this law was written, that it comes from the experience of the problems of the law adopted so far in 2008 and that it stems from the pilot project. The project involved hospitals Celje, Valdoltra, Izola and health homes Celje, Koper, Idrija, Lithia and Piran, of course, as regards better management of waiting species. Therefore, we cannot say that these are some ad hoc solutions, that the profession had no influence, as they are based on practical professional experience and examinations of the management of waiting periods. Therefore, this pilot has only ensured the impact of the profession, so in this context I believe and believe that the lists will be better in order to reflect more realistically the content, particularly as regards the professional assessment of the necessity of the service, and that the inspection under this law will also be given the appropriate place, the appropriate tools, the appropriate staff to be able to monitor and sanction it. As regards the new establishment of an information system for the uniform management of waiting periods, it is certainly a great gain that we will no longer have to guess what actual data are. As we have heard, additional funds will also be made available this year and next year, 23 million for medical training and 18 million for short-term effects on waiting periods. Of course, it would also be important to make team management and hospital management more quality and to make a real team effort. This would also have a major impact and, taking into account these additional resources, it is likely that it will also have an impact on additional organisation and additional services in the health teams. I would therefore like to point out that we will also expect a better organisation of health teams and a more responsible and quality management of institutions to be established as we proceed with the adoption of the law and in the drafting of this law. This is another challenge for the Ministry to address further preparation of health changes. On this occasion, I would like to mention further concerns about additional administrative barriers. I think that when changes are introduced, there are always complications in the initial phase and that there are always normal resistances of healthcare professionals and patients to such changes. It is also normal for such a new form of electronic procurement to appear such resistance, and I think it is right that eHealth, as prepared by the Ministry, provided that it is possible and old approaches and a new electronic order, that paper form and telephone procurement are still possible, and I think that it is only right in this transitional period. Of course, there is an option, and I believe that further consideration should be given to the possibility that staff with electronic procurement, by seeking appropriate solutions for the patient, may be further administratively burdened, potentially affecting health relations that are already weak among many of the staff as we can follow them, so further consideration should be given to what consequences administration will have or will it be possible to rationalise as much as possible. I also like the solutions for the responsibility of our patients, because I believe that we have automatic responsibilities in addition to our rights. I therefore welcome the fact that this law clearly urges our responsibility to cancel the interventions in a timely manner and that we also have consequences if we do not do so, because this is not just about us canceling something, we must be aware that for every intervention, the entire medical team is being organised and prepared and that this has major financial implications and also has an impact on the extension of waiting for other patients. As we speak of the need for further changes in the health system, I would also like to stress that we should really seek incentives for good doctors, for good reasons, for the patient’s age, and that such teams are always followed by patients and should also be followed by money. I think this could have a much better impact on the relationship between healthcare professionals than we are witnessing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has a procedural request.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Today, the key words we have been dealing with for three hours, waiting hours, patients' time, urgency and contact with the patient are key, but we can find that the waiting time for the Minister to respond is at least three hours, and it is still quiet. The patient’s time or our time in the National Assembly would be much more useful if, in some way, the minister would answer the questions that arise today, where the debates for et contra are, and it would be much easier if our work and our follow-up were to receive at least the opposite answers, not that we are asking for three hours, but there are no answers. The degree of urgency of these responses would probably be very satisfactory if the Minister replied, but not for three hours left us in uncertainty. Last but not least, as is important contact with the patient, it is also important to contact Members and, as has been said, it has not been for three hours. That is why, Minister, I really ask that you respond more up-to-dately to all these arguments for et contra, not that you will probably take ten minutes and answer everything, because it would probably be at least an hour shorter if you responded. Thus there are the same arguments for, the same arguments against, the same questions, and we are all waiting for answers, as the answers are expected also probably not only our citizens and citizens, but all those who are very interested in this health system and these waiting times in Slovenia. They'll probably all be very sad when they miss your ten minutes of answers to everything, and probably flat-rate. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I ask you to remind the Minister if she may be unaware of the fact that she responds as quickly as possible and as qualitatively and quantitatively as possible to our questions, because her answers would be very welcome in further discussions. I am also preparing my own questions, and they will probably be very similar to those to which we have not yet received an answer, in short, my debate would be shorter if the Minister were more up-to-date and more in contact with Members and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Madam Minister heard you, of course. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare the mags. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Mr Tomaž Lisec. Here you go, mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't have much time, so I just want to expose this. My key desire in the law is to shorten waiting periods, but we know that this law does not bring this, so on the other hand, I wish that all patients, regardless of their material situation, would be treated in a reasonable time, quality, quality and transparency. For this purpose, the law must, of course, be based on the needs of the patient. My proposal also follows that the maximum allowable waiting period with the degree of urgency should be for a period of up to 3 months at regular intervals, as was the case in the original law, which was harmonised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, then Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Branko Zorman are next. Here you go, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, Members and others present! I am convinced that when reading the objectives of the New Law on Patient Rights on Health, a less-educated Member of Content could only cheer up. The proposal for a new law sets out objectives such as regulating patients' access to treatment, regulating supervision in the field of patient rights and ensuring the quality and safety of patient care. We really need all of this, but it is only by writing down the objectives of the amendment of the law that cannot be fully achieved. The novel will contribute to greater transparency of procedures and to strengthening control of waiting lists in health care, as so far as we can read in the amendment of the law, some of the white gods have turned on the rules of waiting lists and other health policy requirements. Much of the new law has not been adequately resolved, as some of my fellow Members have also pointed out, and substantial solutions in the area of waiting species cannot bring about the amendment of the law, as the reasons for the lower quality functioning of the health system should first be addressed for this purpose. So, unfortunately, the new law will not, irrespective of the good wishes contained in the objectives of the law, contribute to a substantial reduction in waiting periods, better access to treatment, or significantly higher quality of medical treatment. If the Ministry would like to improve the quality and safety of healthcare, it should first provide quality standards and ensure effective supervision of healthcare providers. For the latter, the Medical Chamber should withdraw the powers to exercise professional supervision and public resources and delegate the powers to an independent institution. The Medical Chamber is established to protect the interests of doctors and will therefore never be able to effectively exercise professional supervision. However, since the Ministry did not provide quality standards and because the Ministry does not or does not hope to pursue the abolition of the unjustifiable privileges of the Medical Chamber, it cannot expect better results in the quality and safety of patients. When the Ministry talks about solving the problem of access to treatment, it first overlooks patients, those Slovenian citizens who have been expelled by the system, who today, due to their poor economic or social situation and bureaucratic procedures of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, have no right to be placed in the waiting line in public health. What about the rights to treat these citizens? The Ministry closes its eyes to problems that prevent people from accessing treatment, and to problems that have caused waiting lines to extend dramatically five years ago and have only increased ever since. In particular, health policy seeks to satisfy the wishes of doctors, those seeking profits in health care require the establishment of a free economic initiative for themselves, even though this is contrary to the social justice state, contrary to European health values and although this is at the expense of human health. The spirit of greed thus escaped the bottle. Such a commercialised and privatised health system has brought into health a number of conflicts of interests that promote health anomalies, corruption, skipping waiting species, the artificial creation of long waiting species and public health undermine and make it less effective. Such a system promotes or rewards the creation of long waiting species in health care. If these anomalies are not removed, a reduction of waiting rows cannot be expected, and we really do not need a new law to clean waiting lists. It is also pointless and risky for the quality and safety of patients with the amendment of the law to transfer certain entirely professional decisions in healthcare to Members of State, to politics. I hope that in the course of the process, the contents of the amendment of the law that are not good for patients will change. The novelty of the law is mainly proof of the powerlessness and unwillingness of health policy in order to address a number of health anomalies, which also prolong waiting species. Instead of the necessary changes in health care, the Ministry is taking fire action to convince citizens that solutions are close. In fact, such fire-fighting actions cannot bring solutions to the accumulated problems that also plague too long-term waiting species. One of the more important reasons for long-term waiting lines is certainly the poor health care organisation, since the sacred cows in health care do not hope to regulate even the recording of the working time of healthcare professionals, let alone ban the public servants' business trips in a public institution by competitive private companies. Nor do they hope to be removed from the position of those who, by their poor work or by exploiting the system’s weaknesses, contribute to poorer quality of treatment, poor patient safety and poor public health. The responsible health policy would also require public institutions to organise work in two or three shifts to remove waiting lines and to benefit the operating rooms during the afternoon, evening and night, during the year and before the new year, and to take the planning out of the hands of the Medical Chamber. The Ministry didn't do that. In order to reduce waiting periods, the Ministry should ensure that basic public health care, doctors and concessionaires in basic health care consistently perform the tasks of doorkeepers when entering patients at secondary health level. This means that patients should only be sent to a secondary level in justified cases. There has been a long-standing drastic increase in travel to the secondary level of health care, which also serves to shift the cost of treatment from primary to secondary level of health care, and in this way more money remains in the pockets of private businesses. As we know, health services in hospitals are as essential as in primary health care. Unnecessary travel to secondary health levels needlessly increases the costs of the public health system. Since primary health care does not carry out the tasks of doormen satisfactorily, we have significantly more expensive public health care, and highly specialized doctors in hospitals are also smothered with unnecessary work and waiting types are prolonged. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the Ministry of Health have not even analysed these phenomena, except in order to initiate appropriate control procedures, measures and such damage. The Ministry and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia have also not properly regulated the payment of health services in all these years, thus forcing public institutions to lose. Private operators get paid for each service and mainly take over better paid services. Public health professionals are cheap workers, as the costs of their education are borne by the State, the leave and other rights of work and the professional training of public institutions. Public institutions also do not get paid all health services and must also provide less paid health services. Despite the promise to demarcate public and private health activities in the coalition contract, no distinction has been made between the public and the private. Nor did the Commission's warnings to prevent corruption on the existence of conflicts of interest due to the simultaneous exercise of work in and outside the public service, which increases corruption risks. Many doctors in public health have one or more espouses or parts in which they carry out private health activities and go out to earn money outside public institutions, while in the public service they store physical power for afternoon or evening work in private health companies. So they allow for the creation of artificial waiting lines in the public service in order to generate more profits in their own private office, and to skip waiting lines for non-health reasons. This is also why waiting species in public health are being extended. The public health system is therefore exposed to the risk of corruption, the loss of financial resources, the deterioration of the efficiency of the health system and the consequent increase of inequalities in human health. Madam Minister, in order to remove too many waiting lines, the real problems I have discussed today must be tackled, i.e. with anomalies that threaten public health, while raising public health funds to enable public health institutions to carry out health services. I suggest you do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Vice President, for the floor. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to all! I'm looking forward to watching today's session. Above all, I am interested in listening to coalition partners who have many more questions than I do by the opposition, but I myself expected that, in such an important law, the Minister, with all the relevant issues, would inform the coalition member at one, two, if three or more coalition meetings were necessary, and that this meeting would only be a brief introduction to the wishes and demands of the opposition and that the coalition is united. And we can see that coalition coordination was either bad or it wasn't at all. This is not only a problem for the coalition, but it is a problem for all of us who face the Slovenian health system here and there. All those facing the Slovenian health system should be at the primary, secondary or tertiary level, regardless of whether in the public network or in the concessionaire or in the private sector, we have one wish. After 3 years of big words, the Minister will systematically address all of the public health issues. The predecessor has talked a lot not only about waiting types, but also about customerism and corruption, and of all that has been promised over the past three years, we have a non-systemic solution here, not only in the opinion of us in the SDS Group, especially in the opinion of those who have made a lot of comments, but more than 50 stakeholders are expected to listen to the Minister, we first need a basic system law, a law on health care and health insurance. This law is already being discussed, talking, talking, we have so-called parliamentary holidays ahead of us, and especially other vacations, when officials finally breathe, because we will not bother them anymore, then there will be autumn, which will be a very low start in preparation for early or regular elections. Why did I stress systemicity? Because we are always listening to this government: system legislation, system legislation, and system legislation We are getting completely non-systemic solutions. [[…]] This law is also just an implementation plan that should be the result of another act, but if you would like to talk about the reform you are talking about so much, it would be appropriate to bring this law, the Health and Health Insurance Act, and perhaps another law to one of the meetings of the National Assembly. And we could talk about everything in this general debate. This way we have not only in this law, but also in other laws that are somewhere in drawers or pass among officials with benches, a lot of questions and fewer answers. As I said before, today we are talking about waiting periods, and then I will go after the articles, where I will try to prove that the Ministry will write nicely those basic goals, the reasons and the purposes necessary for the adoption of this law, but when we read the articles, we have a lot more questions than these general flags, I call them Piar the approach project system for the resolution of the Slovenian health system. If we only remember how much money the minister has already spent in this mandate to reduce waiting lines, then we are facing radio awards when people are crying and hoping that if the ministry and the health system don't listen to them, maybe some insurance company is listening to them. There was also too little talk about this today, whether we just want a strong ZZS or how we want to participate in the elimination of waiting lines at all levels of other insurance companies. There was too little talk about what will not only increase patients' rights – or on this page the question to the minister, or can be confirmed, to ensure that after the adoption of this law, which, despite the coalition cracks, will obviously come to life sooner or later, there will be no reduction in the rights of patients, and above all that there will be no increase in waiting types. For, as has already been said, a few million have already been given by the ministry to eliminate waiting lines, but there is no concrete effect, except here and there, a slight decrease, and in other areas waiting periods are increasing. If the same mantra has this law, which means that some segment of the operation will reduce the waiting good for a week and in three other areas, we have done nothing. The next thing I'm very interested in, and it's been going on for quite some time, is the financial consequences of this law. It says here that the only financial result is the employment of four inspectors or financial resources of EUR 144 000, which will be provided directly from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and, as said, will be provided for 2018. If the SDS Group were to write a law where they would write down, I quote: “The financial resources on the budget line for 2018 will be provided”, they would receive a red card by the President of the National Assembly and would say that the law does not comply with what is called a statement that the means for implementing the law or the financial consequences of the bill are provided and cannot be in force. Next thing you know, I'm going to go a little bit along the lines that, I hope, will affect that the document in the preamble, so in the introduction, lasts a lot of things, and then the concrete writing of the articles denies it, and unfortunately, it will probably be even more negligent about just operating in practice. I've written some articles. For example, a new Article 4 that changes the respect of the patient’s time: “The patient has the right to respect his time.” Sounds good, but what does that mean in practice? Will it be respected if John Novak, who can now wait only half an hour under the law, waits for an hour, two hours, not only because of this law, but because of practical matters that take place both at primary and secondary levels, when there are too few doctors and the doctor is on duty, comes to an emergency situation and then waits three, four hours? Will the patient be able to complain and to whom if he tells that the provisions of the Patient Rights Act are not respected? For the law assures him, I quote: “The patient has the right to respect his time.” The following thing, waiting time: “The health care provider in the public health service network shall ensure that the work is organised in such a way that the waiting time is as short or as short as 30 minutes.” I hope, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, that you have also personally gone to any doctor you were waiting for in the waiting room and with the people in the waiting room, i.e. with the patients, to discuss that the healthcare provider must ensure that the waiting time is as short as possible, which is a flascule. For one patient it may be 5 minutes, but it may be problematic, and for one half hour. Because you wrote "not more than 30 minutes" here. Have you spoken to the hospital directors, the health centers, or are they going to be able to handle this? They're not gonna fix it! And you can go to all health home directors, not just those four or eight who have even a positive financial situation, but especially those who are in the negative, and they will say that they will not be able to handle it. Not them as responsible persons, not legal persons, not doctors. The next thing is the level of urgency. Many times in my office, I meet people who say what helps them, where they write urgently or quickly, because then 75% of the cases fail. And now we've come up with a pianist project called very quickly. In six months, we will probably find that people will receive raffles via radio shows when they can pass at least at this time, which is called very quickly. There's something else about red tape. This law also de facto increases the level of bureaucratic and administrative barriers in the field of health. If we look at it, the waiting list contains the following information, health - care home directors, hospitals, doctors cross, and so told me, and I wonder if the Ministry agrees or approves it. To conclude, this law is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Zorman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are witnessing the first reading of the new Law on Patient Rights, which is proposed by the Government. You have raised quite a few questions about this law, and they will, of course, be answered below. There was also a tremendous amount of talk about everything else in health care, not just the content of this law. Of course, any topic relating to health care can be a reason to talk about all the problems in this area, but today we have a first reading of this law, and it would be nice to stick to it. Since I am the last debater, it is only the Ministry that follows me, I will also conclude my debate with this and give the Ministry the final opportunity to respond to all the uncertainties that you have raised and to reject those allegations that were not correct, because it makes no sense to repeat that I am cutting out all your statements now, and then the Ministry again from A to Z. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, Minister of Health, gets the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Honourable Members and Members, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly! First, I will respond to the content of all the debaters who discussed in the general debate on the new Law on Patient Rights, and then I will respond to some specific comments, misunderstandings or, in one part, deliberate deception, which is the right thing to do, to clarify and say. First of all, what are the reasons for waiting times. I have said several times that they are known by virtually all health systems, but should be largely financed by public funds from public or private systems. The reasons are very different and waiting times are very complex and difficult, so of course they are simple, not even with the amendment of the law, they cannot be resolved or solved, as I have certainly said many times. The purpose and purpose of this law is not to shorten waiting periods, but to make sure that what the goals and purposes of this law are, a little later. The waiting days are the result of first demographic changes, ageing, new diseases, on the other hand, because of our increased awareness, including the complexity of quality health care, then of course they are the result of lack of resources and lack of money, and they are the result, if you want, of passive medicine, of whether it is because of overload or lack of knowledge, or even if you want, of the white sentences of family medicine doctors. All of these are challenges to which, in the past, there have been no answers throughout the whole period of Slovenia, either as intervention measures or as systemic solutions. The experience of other countries shows that only through intervention measures by adding financial injections will we not – and nowhere in any country, nor in us, and that I am not a pretender – solve or eliminate waiting periods. However, by means of intervention measures, we will shorten those waiting periods, where there is an excessive waiting period, which may result in a deterioration of the health condition or poor mobility of Slovenian citizens. This is why we have already taken up this problem in two respects at the Ministry very early in my mandate. One is as an intervention measure, for which you know that we have already implemented a one-time supplementary programme in the second year, in 2017 with additional money, about which I will tell you about some good results that Slovenia has not yet achieved in shorteviation, and another chart will show you how big the additional impact of the handcuffs is, say, on the knee prosthesis from 1 January to 1 May. And from a systemic point of view. One part of how we will better arrange, design and manage waiting lists with waiting periods is this novel of the Patient Rights Act. I don't think there were many debaters who said what this law would do for patients, because it is a novel of the Patients' Rights Act. Of course, it also brings some responsibilities. I will tell you why, because it is correct for all those waiting on the list and for healthcare professionals, that health workers are at least, which is, if someone cannot come to the procedure or for a specialist review, to give it a sufficient time before that. What is happening today in practice? It happens that, say, entire teams are waiting even for operations, and people are simply not. Many hospital executives can say this, and information can be told later, or has been mentioned more than once. Why? Because of this, we will give the medical staff the opportunity to make the first call on the list in a timely manner, the next call, and offer them this free time to intervene, which, of course, is not possible today. Therefore, the aim of the law is to ensure transparency of better management of lists, to regulate integrated and adequate supervision in the provision of patient rights and obligations. For we know that in this proposal we have completed the criminal provisions and introduced inspection of the entire law, which is not currently in the existing law, which we know has entered into force in 2008. The next very important objective of this law is to ensure quality, adequate and safe medical treatment. Let me tell you a little bit later, for the first time in the history of independent Slovenia, we are introducing quality indicators of this one-time additional programme to reduce waiting periods, I will tell you which. Among other things, the working group has been working for a long time on the preparation of the origins of the quality and safety law, where an appropriate body will be established to monitor the quality of health services and safety. Of course, for the first time, because, unfortunately, none of the governments in Slovenia has taken on these matters, and yet many others have not, and now all the arrows and cannons fall on this government. What brings good to patients? Because I think it's right to hear it and say it. Above all, he's focused on the patient and on his overall treatment to make it shorter waiting hours. Already today, well-organised health care providers have such an order that people wait in the infirmary for 15 minutes. We have examples of good practice mainly in health homes, I can tell you this from my experience and also from many colleagues, of course if it is an organisation and if there are no emergencies. In terms of ordering, several debaters have been exposed to what eProcurement means and eTip. There was actually manipulation and abuse. I am sorry that Mrs Godec is not here because, for the second time in this Parliament, she has shown white paper instead of a green passport and has said what rationalisation or e-ordering is here, if instead of a green passport, she has received a white paper with a number or code through which each of the houses can be ordered via a computer. Regrettably, she did not say that when she received it — or the person who received it — she probably told the health care staff at the health care home that she would order herself, because otherwise the health care staff would not necessarily be a doctor, or the information points set up in the health care homes would help her and that order. I say this and I stress this because it is actually a deception to the public. Maybe some more information on how it's going. The latest data show that we are successfully referring to e-passengers and we have now issued them according to the latest data already 10 000 100 per day, in May, so I will say, quite a good percentage of how these things are going. But you know that when you change the whole system, there are always operational problems. I can tell you from my own experience that a family doctor who has already used a computer has obtained a digital certificate — this is done very quickly. I was sitting next to my family doctor, who I have to commend because she was one of the first, and she said that, of course, this is not a problem, and the program is very nice. To those who have used computers so far, this does not present any problem, and this does not mean, as has been the case with a great deal of evidence, that administration, bureaucratic barriers to what we are introducing. If we have another world to compare, developed countries, here we are not perceptive about these matters. By the way, in these administrative burdens, all of which were said to be, 9 items out of 23 do not have to be met every time, many are generated automatically. But it is true that all matters will be very transparent. They will be very transparent because they say the doctor's code, the patient's code, how many subscribers wrote, where they sent the discharge letter, the results, so that health personnel, who have the authority, will in fact know about the treatment and have the so-called e-card for examination, which will, of course, also help to improve the care or service of all patients. So to those who say that this is an additional administrative burden for operators, I have to say that there is even a smaller administrative burden in one part, for example, because we know that the phone order decreases from 4 to 2 hours a day because we want to accelerate the use of other methods of ordering. Then there is the possibility – which is not given today – of removing from the waiting list, the law defines in which cases. I have already said several times what the pilot project has shown that today we have in the waiting lists in the Excel tables on the time of people who have either not yet decided to come into action, or the medical situation does not allow them to come to an intervention in due course, but are on the waiting list and, of course, because there is no legal option, we cannot transfer them to another or intermediate waiting list. As a result, we are also introducing some of the obligations of all of us as patients to have respect and respect for health workers from this point of view, without the fact that, as was the case in one hospital, it was not long before five people were called to the colonoscopy infirmary, no one came, no one apologized, no one, the entire medical team, and the team waited and could practically not fill the deadline. That, too, I'd say, is reality. And this will allow the contractors to reorder their lives and have enough time to call each of the following. It's about coordination. Coordination has taken place since November 2016; in the public debate, it was first the starting point and then the drafting of the proposals of the law was coalition coordination, coordination with the Ombudsman, the Economic and Social Council, with chambers, professional associations, unions, with professional bodies, health organisations, with NGOs, additional meetings with dentists, orthodontics, psychiatrists, pedopsychiatris, clinical psychologists. Representatives of virtually all stakeholders, the Health Insurance Institute, the National Institute, the Association of Institutions, the Medical Chamber, health homes, the Medical Ethics Commission, representatives of the patient's rights and so on were represented in the working group in the preparation of this bill. It would be difficult to say, therefore, that I accept such an impression that it was not coordinated. However, what Mrs Godec said was true, let me tell her that, given that the novelty is not a new law, we are also limited by the number of amendments we are making to the article. And let me answer her with regard to the second-degree committee for the protection of patients' rights that the Ministry of Health is already providing administrative assistance to this committee so that it can carry out its work normally. With regard to funding and some concrete results, however, it is necessary to say because it has been mentioned that we have received 300 million additional money. We have received information, something to say, I have taken over the health sector when the accumulated losses of the hospitals were EUR 135 million, it is said at the beginning of the mandate. I'm not going to let go of what the reasons were, how. Over these years, if we look at the whole period, because it was said how much extra money went to the hospital and how much it went on, let me say that, between 2008 and 2015, the scope of the programme implemented was increased by 26% in hospitals for specialist outpatient activities alone, and that a significant part of it was virtually not funded by the institution and that hospital treatments, including one-day hospital, increased by 12%. If we go to see how much extra money was actually going to the hospital, from 2013 to 2017 it went 144 million for health services, totalling 251 million increases, from 2013 to 2017. Of this, it actually went 75 million to increase hospital benefits, which is a 31% increase, and only 8% were about to increase health services. Not to mention how much health service prices have been reduced according to the ZUJF. So, we have scissors, we have a gap – health services like this up, prices, payments, and money like this and this is now this gap or, if you want, a hole. It is recalled that this has been done by all the government in my mandate, where we are doing our utmost to resolve issues with unique programmes and also from a systemic perspective. By the way, also the answer mentioned above were the stentis again, a reduction in material costs. I will give just one piece of information, for the entire health expenditure, the expenditure for the 2-3 million euro stents represents. I agree that there is a need to turn money around at a fair price, but what is between 2 and 3 million in all health expenses? However, for the first time in Slovenia alone, we have prepared medical professional standards for the purchase of stents and reduced the price to 202 euros, if I am not mistaken. It's the first time in history. But I'll tell you the order of size because there's so much talk. However, for the first time, of course, we were able to make common public orders for medicines, so that I would not list everything for you, I signed a week, two framework procurement programmes for the practical full use of medicines in hospitals, not to speak for needles and diapers, which are also in the final stages. That's all there is to it. There's something else about this, you know, about foreign counselors, foreign recommendations, and it's just that it's hard to agree on these things for someone who advocates a completely different concept. I will not mention how many people in the United States are without healthcare, but I will repeat the data published by the United States after a 25-year survey on quality and accessibility to health services. Slovenia was ranked 18th among 192 countries of the world, after 25 years of research. And even Britain is far behind us, and here we hear that everything is wrong, that everything is so much about these different things. [[…]] I will also answer Mr Horvath, the honourable Member. You have said that the Minister does not let a successful private doctor do this, preventing anyone who is authorised to carry out a medical activity from doing this. [[…]] And another story is the source of the funding. Unfortunately, it is a tendency for everyone to somehow join public funds. This is not a problem, but if they join public funds, of course it is necessary to play and act, to operate according to public funds rules. However, we cannot defend the system that someone operates by public means under the rules of the Company Act. Legislative services and even the judgments of European courts also say that this cannot be done. If a private entity operates by public means, then the rules applicable to public funds must be respected, meaning in a non-profit manner, without profit or profit, it must be directed back to health. Here we have these key dilemmas, if you want, conscious or unconscious understanding. I am the first to advocate that competition in health care must work on the quality of health services, on accessibility, but we must respect a level playing field when it comes to public money. That's what we're responsible for. And there's this difference where we're different in concept. There are also some very specific answers to matters. Cancer patients were mentioned. Yes, we have listened to them and, above all, an additional level of urgency has been introduced, this is very fast, 14 days, which will of course mean that in one part it will be possible to relieve the level of urgency, because we have found that today there is too much time gap between the level of urgency that is immediately or 24 hours and the rate that is 3 months. It is right that this rate has now been introduced, which will enable cancer patients in particular, and some that doctors will be able to use this rate. And one more thing to say is that it means 14 days, and the extra thing is that they have to get a test and an expert opinion right away. And that, I'll say, is an additional advantage that patients get. To continue, the level of urgency is very rapid. So, in one part, we are going to unload the level of urgency, which does not mean that the number of referrals will therefore be higher, only the different distribution of these levels of urgency will be. But we need to know and trust that this is a doctor's tool, because it can only be professionally and professionally determine this level of urgency. Of course, this will make it easier to take into account what is reasonable time. This reasonable time is already defined in the current law and is judged by the doctor according to the specific medical condition of the individual patient and his/her circumstances. As regards the quality agency, I have already mentioned that the following five quality indicators are being introduced in monitoring the single supplementary programme. This is also the first time we have dared to say it, and they were prepared by the profession, as you say, by people who are not many in Slovenia who are familiar with this quality, I think that for almost a year she prepared these starting points. These quality indicators for the EDP 2017 will be as follows: reduction of the number of waiting periods beyond the allowable waiting period, reduction of the number of waiting periods within the allowable waiting period, reduction of the waiting period to the first free period, unscheduled services due to the absence of the patient and satisfaction of patients with the service that we will measure. This is the first package to follow, and this EDP 2017 will also be monitored by these indicators and will also be made public. Now, what are one-off measures in addition to the EDP 2017. You know that a one-year pilot project has also been undertaken by the Government on the basis of negotiations with trade unions of doctors and dentists. For the systematic reduction of waiting periods, it introduces a category of standards and a category of flexible awards, especially for primary and secondary activities. This has also been done by experts very intensively for more than half a year in order to reach very specific numbers and specific requirements, when and how someone has the right to this variable award, of course by scale, if they meet the conditions complementaryly, meaning not only to reach the standards in their working time, but also to perform quality services, say at the primary level, to perform certain interventions, house visits, palliative visits, less travel, uses e-consultation with the relevant specialist on a secondary level. Of course, at the secondary level, there is an additional condition for shortening waiting periods for those waiting, if both conditions are not met, it does not get any variable work on the basic salary. This is an attempt at how, in the future, if good results are to be achieved, they can systematically regulate the way in which public institutions are awarded and managed. Now for the specifics. By the way, I think today is also published on our website a detailed number of interventions to be carried out with a one-time supplementary programme. I will now not list them, these are the programmes which, on the basis of the professional criteria for the longest waiting period on 1 January 2017 and according to the available human resources and equipment capacities of all in the public network, including concessionaires, have carried out additional programmes, the number of operations we are monitoring and will be paid after they are completed. And now I'm going to say some concrete numbers because this EDP is already being implemented. For this purpose, specific programmes were approved, namely the data review, showing – the number of patients waiting on 1 June 2017 compared to 1 January 2017 – that the number of patients waiting for the procedures for which the data are collected decreased by almost 3 %, both in the total number of patients waiting, given that the operators actually started implementing this programme with April and everyone intensively with May. Also during this period, the waiting period, the number of waiting periods and the number of waiting periods over the maximum allowable waiting period at the first check-up in the rheumatological infirmary decreased by almost 10 % in both waiting numbers, depending on the level of urgency. For example, in the orthopaedic infirmary there was a reduction in the number of pending 7% and waiting above the maximum allowable waiting period by 30%. CT scans, with an average waiting time decrease of 4.36%. Of course, for everyone, I'm talking about comparison 1. 6. 2017, p. 1. 1. 2017, by also taking into account the additional inflows, because you know, I have told you how many e-invoices we issue every day. It's a waiting time, I'd say, a matter that's alive. The mean waiting time for MR investigations decreased by 3,15 %, the average waiting time for coronarography decreased by 2,51%, and the total number of CT investigations was reduced by 23,23%. Repeat, CT 23.23%. And the total number of waiting was reduced by 9.65%. And then, let's say, I mentioned the knee prosthesis, according to condition data on day one. 5. 2017 – show that it will be easier to see – 253 interventions have been further implemented, but these green columns tell us how many additional influxes of e-passengers and patients have been made after months. When we have all the numbers, you will be able to see it and we will publish it on the website. If they do not perform 10 interventions, because we have specifically coordinated with each operator according to their options, how many of these interventions will they be, of course these interventions will not be paid if they are not implemented. The same applies to this one-year programme, for which I have negotiated 18 million additional money from the budget reserve for this year. This, as we have said, will only be rewarded if all the conditions of standards, quality, reduction of waiting times are met complementaryly, and, of course, after checking all categories performed. I think I'm mostly in a reasonable time. [[…]] It's more about jumping. Skipping when a complete electronic list is completed will not be possible, because if we order at home via a computer, it is recorded and, of course, it cannot be corrected, later entered, and the list will be very clear and transparent, which today, with these lists by different methodologies for time in Excel tables, of course we cannot speak. But it's true that no one checks them either. For example, we have cases where individual performers run waiting lists, there are cases in particular in orthopaedics, such as individual orthopaedics, I don't know, there are multiple orthopaedics on the knee, people have the right to choose their orthopaedics, and then I ask you what is the right waiting time for knee surgery if we keep waiting lists per orthopaedic. And of course, patients also agree that if they want a selected orthopedic, they will wait longer. And then in some methodology, this sums up, on average, and we get this kind. And one more thing that is very important is that we must not forget that waiting times are generated in the prime. In fact, they're generated by those who travel. I will now give an example of good practice because I recently spoke with the Italian Minister of Health – what did they do in the province of Veneto? It's real, it's not something someone would say to make it sound better. This is also where our primary health strategy, which is also in the final phase and is coordinated and I believe that September will be made available to the general public, but it has been working for a year and a half. What did they do? They strengthened the primacy, established certain outpatients by getting doctors from the secondary, limiting the number of doctor's fees, as well as the amount of money that the doctor can write for medicines to avoid control or control, investing in prevention and counselling at the primary level, and reducing the number of beds per thousand population from 6 to 3. They are one of the most developed landscapes in Europe, in Italy at all, as well as the country that has the best health care system – and you know what she told me? How many hospitals were no longer needed and locked up. And people and everyone are much more satisfied and healthier. I think that there is another way of developing that we are offering prevention services to people, as many services as possible at the primary level in the home environment, and we are going to relieve and contribute to a healthier population. By the way, I would like to mention that these increased contributions that are being made to the Health Insurance Office unfortunately do not go to a greater extent towards the payment of health services, because unfortunately this money goes for a much higher consumption of hospital benefits than 30 days. We note a drastic increase in this disease stock and, of course, compensations, already increased by 16% in 2015/2016 and only in the first 5 months compared to 2016 data by slightly more than 20%. I would like to say that, despite the increased employment, the greater inflow from contributions – at the same time, we also have a pretty good amount of unrecovered contributions, especially from the past – this money does not guide the payment of a larger volume of health services, which, as I said, is increasing with the percentage I mentioned earlier. For this reason, I am aware that there will indeed be a need to approach and do much more from a systemic point of view, and this amendment to the law is one part of what will help us to manage this better at systemic level. And one more thing, and I will conclude by saying that in fact some of the debaters have been saying what reform is, that the amendment of the Patient Rights Act is not reform, but that there have been many systemic laws in our mandate, if we remember only some, such as the Medical Act after 24 years. And I will say, some others have also been making reforms, better said structural changes in health. And all the other measures and activities that we are doing may not even reach you Members of the National Assembly. The aim of this amendment is not to shorten waiting periods, but the aim and purpose of establishing transparency is to properly, comprehensively regulate control, to introduce quality treatment and that in the future we can really talk about real, real waiting times and ultimately also about the success of the one-time programmes and the additional money that is meant to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u63	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing yes. Let me read, before the application, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. If she also wants to discuss the Government's representative, please also apply by pressing the microphone key. In this case, he gets the last word. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I did not mean to come forward anymore, but after this discussion, when I listened to the Minister, I can conclude that in Slovenian health care at this time the situation is so good that this debate would not be necessary today, so it was necessary because of this proposed law. And after all the superlatives she spoke today on one side of the Minister and when we listened to the other parliamentary groups, we see that it is going to the Minister for Direct Transfer. She just lost touch with reality. She just lost touch with reality. On the one hand, today we have talked about waiting types, all of these things that have been said, and we note that if you go to patients, if you go to people, if you ask, almost every citizen or citizen will have a lot of comments on the functioning of our health system. But the minister here today is talking about how everything is about and, in general, and what is right and right, what has happened, how many reform laws have been submitted to the National Assembly, then she said one, it is called the Law on Pharmacy and some others, and she even said that some of the rules have been adopted, but maybe not all Members and Members or all of the citizens and citizens we do not know. So were those regulations written for the Chinese? Were they written for the Japanese or not? I mean, how can a minister make a statement like that without thinking about what she's saying? Not to mention this problem, which I am constantly trying to alert, but the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes when we are talking about corruption in health. I do not know now, I wonder whether, after all that she has done at the time of the Minister, perhaps on the payroll of this gentleman, whom we all know very well, that the health situation is not improving, that nothing is done in the field of health corruption. I'm talking, of course, about Mr. Earthling, so no one would forget. That's all possible. I'm not saying that's true, but that's all possible if it's really going on with the old hooves, just like it's done so far. And if someone, for example, warns that something is wrong, then the minister invites these people – first put them up and then calls – to resign. Look what was going on in the children's surgery! When the generals and his experts want Mr Kenda to step down, she is once again on the side of this Mr Kenda, Private Jankovic, Kučan and so on, and is trying to protect his position there in any way. Despite the fact that so many and so many negative things have happened in child surgery. What kind of minister is that?Oh, my God! So I say that I wonder whose list this minister is on if he advocates such people who have been shown that so many and so many problems have happened under their leadership. I don't understand. I just don't understand the Minister that where she's supposed to make moves, she doesn't do anything. Then there is the legislation that has been brought into the National Assembly, which we will briefly discuss again, the Health Act, and the attacks on those in this society that virtually work best, with which all, 90% of all patients and patients, are satisfied. And he attacks those! But it avoids those key issues, which are the problem of our health system. And once again, I wonder whose list the Minister is on. I hope that we will find out once, maybe after the end of her term, or when she offers her own resignation, because she should have done so a long time ago. What she was saying today and what she had done was a huge difference. And all those who listen to this, both patients, patients, citizens and citizens, like those who are sitting in Parliament and those who are familiar with the health care that they are sitting in Parliament - now by chance they are not in the hall – and are familiar with this area, today they have made very clear and very good their views, which are diametrically contrary to what the Minister is saying. [[…]] So, Madam Minister, please stop deceiving and go where the list is, I will not say for sure, but I think you're coming out.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u65	Procedurally, Mrs. Erika Girl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u66	Mr President, I understand that it is very difficult to stop our colleague from SDS, but I would ask you to at least remind him that we are talking today about the Patient Rights Act. It is right to focus on its contents. Of course in case he knows her. But we're not talking about corruption in health care, but we're talking about Earthling, and we're talking about Kendi, and we're talking about ministers, and we're talking about different lists where people appear or don't show up. So I ask very nicely that you may pay little attention to these debates, and as chairman you also guide them accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I've got another procedural one. Mr. Marian Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u68	Mr Vice-President, it is my procedure that it would be nice for the lady who spoke before me to listen to what was happening in the Chamber today. And if she listened to the secretary who talked about everything about the health system. And then she gives it that procedural. Please warn her if she has not listened to what has been happening in the National Assembly today, so that she does not go and give such procedural information. It would be nice to sit here and listen to this, and then it would be credible for her to be procedural. It is procedural for me, Mr President, not to give such a person the opportunity to speak procedurally if they were not here and listened to what the Minister said for an hour. I sat here and listened all the time to the content of her conversation, which touched the entire health system and not just the law we are talking about today. Please warn her that what she was saying was a delusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. If I could, I would also give my procedural and I would look something like that, so let's get on with our work. And if I may suggest, we would proceed with Mr. Tomas Lisce. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you. Dear Minister, now I'm even more confused. When I said that it was necessary to systematically solve things and expect this law on patient rights to be part of a health reform, you were struggling with your head and you were talking about everything else for more than half the time, except the law on patient rights. I am even more concerned that in the reasons, goals and purposes of the marriage, half the time is devoted to topics such as waiting time and waiting list. And you said, and I hope that I am almost literally quoting you: “With the novel, waiting species cannot be reduced. The purpose of the law is not to shorten waiting periods. We will not save waiting periods with financial injections.” This is what patients, respected and respected, expect. Now I have an even greater feeling as I read the new article 15.b. Performing waiting sesame so that the patient can cancel at least ten days before the health service is performed and that it must be written, that you are eager to wait for the law to come into force, that you will remove people from lists, and six months later you will boast: In this area we have reduced waiting periods. Of course, because you threw them down. As does the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in one other record. He deletes them from the number of unemployed and then says: “We have reduced the waiting or the unemployed.” I am even more afraid that this law will see the light of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, if I understand correctly, you are preparing a new strategy. I'm even more concerned. We are waiting for the Health and Health Insurance Act, probably as a bypass we will get some brown, green, purple or unfortunately a black book called a health strategy. I really hope, as my former colleague Horvath has said, that the mandate will end before you bring this strategy, which is likely to bring the funeral of the health system, to the National Assembly. Next thing you know, we're talking about the law on patient rights. Dear Minister, as you spoke about the patient's rights, you spoke for half the time about the obligations and duties of patients, we suggest that you change the title of this law: the Law on Patients' Rights and Duties, which is nice, but you only boast about the rights, and today we have finally heard that patients have responsibilities. Therefore, once again, a well-meaning suggestion, a proposal, correct to begin before you deal with the content, the title of the law and also mention the duties of patients. Also that if more than 10 days before they are ordered will not be written – and this in 2017! — the waiting line will be cancelled in writing, as stated: “If the patient does not justify it, it shall be deleted from the waiting list and the travel document shall expire.” And the waiting period will be reduced. I haven't spoken before, but I wanted to say that I am very afraid of what is said in the new Article 19. It states that the Minister responsible for health shall issue the regulation referred to in this, this, this, this and this paragraph, this and this Article. Because all of these records, which are already written here, as in all other legislation, will become very rich because we are going to make a science fiction out of the order in terms of the patient's death before it is urgently ordered or ordered for the so-called new rapid procedure. And for the record, Madam Secretary, I believe you've been talking, but apparently you have the same problem as this entire government. You talk, negotiate, coordinate, and never agree until the end, do not harmonise, there is also today's debate by certain members of the coalition who wanted to pour you pure wine and they talked most about customerism, about corruption, about how you need a systematic reform of the law. What you're doing is comparing how good or bad the cases from abroad are, how guilty all previous ministers are, how guilty the patients are and how guilty the doctors are, how guilty the situation is. Dear Minister, as the emperor sometimes has to look in the mirror, I suggest you do so and look at your notes on the tape when you became Minister, what you promised, and what the current situation is. Promises and catastrophic forecasts of implementation in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u71	Mrs. Jelka Godec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u72	Madam Minister, “the waiting periods generate primary”, you said. At the beginning, “demographic change is the lack of personnel, new diseases, no funds”. Later, you say that the cash injections will not save the waiting period. Madam Minister, is this because you don't know what you're saying at the beginning and what you're saying at the end, or if you're not being taught properly? Now it's up to you to decide who's generating waiting periods. Who? Once again, once again, we need another 18 million: “I negotiated 18 million to shorten waiting periods.” Before you say that the financial injections will not save the waiting period. I don't know anymore. You need 18 million. Why, Madam Secretary? Where are you going to give 18 million? To shorten waiting periods or just to be able to boast that you've reduced waiting periods? I asked you earlier if you've decided to reduce the cost of the material for these 18 million because once again, we've shown you on the ventricles that a million can be saved on only one medical material, on only one. Madam Minister, what have you done to reduce the material costs or costs of medical material? You personally, what, where and how did you do with the joint public procurement? They didn't make it, not yet, not today. And the prices in these general public contracts are not reduced, except for one, due to one doctor who weighs you non-stop and non-stop on all these commissions talking about price cuts. That's one thing. That's another thing. Madam Minister, you are accusing primacy of increasing waiting periods to generate waiting periods. Finally, when I went to social networks, you told the patients: “The hospitals shut down in Italy.” What are you saying, Madam Secretary? To close hospitals in Slovenia, and to the primary, you insist that it should limit the number of passengers. Is that what you want to report? People are asking me if you're okay. Now that's exactly what I'm gonna say. On social networks, they ask what is wrong with the minister, tell the Slovenian public that they are closing hospitals in Italy and that they are limiting the number of premiums. One lady writes: “Yes, thank you very much, you have said nothing new, the e-passenger is exactly as Mrs Godec said.” And I didn't deceive you, Madam Secretary! I'll tell you again if I'm that liquid. Three passengers, three, for a specialist, same specialist review. I got white paper, and I didn't want to order myself. My sister gave me her hand and told me to order. And I went and I made an appointment. How? No phone call is possible because he tells me to put it in the mail. And I put it on the mail and got it back in writing from the doctor. And don't tell me I'm cheating. Madam Minister, how many e-mails have you made since you introduced them? How many? I'm three. And on three occasions, I'll tell you that e-passengers are white paper now. And others also write as follows: “In 2020 I am commissioned for a single review.” Well, I don't allow you to say that I'm deceiving you because this is my particular case. But if doctors work differently, that means they give some white paper to others, and they direct orders to others, and that's not my problem, not the patient's problem, it's not his problem, so it's gonna be the doctor's problem. The next thing is quality. Reduction of waiting periods, number of unscheduled services, satisfaction with the service performed and so on. Is that a quality for you? So as few waiting periods as possible, as quickly as possible. What does that mean? Will the doctor be rewarded if he does as many people as possible with a shorter waiting period? Does that mean anything? Now he's working, I don't know, five minutes with one, and then he's gonna keep working, huh? 3 minutes per patient to get as short as possible. One more time. In the law itself, or in the first part in which you state the reasons for this law, you wrote, I will once again tell you: “Inclusion of patients for health care professionals means an administrative obstacle.” Until now. What's next? Now he's going to have to continue to work his travels, e-passengers. That's not an additional administrative obstacle? You'll have to put extra red tape on them. “When entering the waiting list, healthcare providers do not comply with the provisions of the Patient Rights Act and the Rules because they are not qualified enough.” From this day forward, they have been trained by this law. They're not! Because they're the same doctors again. Will you train them for this? You are talking about a level playing field for both private people, concessionaires and public health institutions. Really? 30% less receives a private person for the same service provided than one who works in a public health institution. 30% lower gets paid service. Madam Minister, this law will not shorten the waiting hours. This marriage will burden doctors, and patients will be completely confused so that they do not know when the time is right, where it is their turn, how to order. And that's true. It's not part of the reform. It's part of the reform. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u73	I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will be taking place today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendment and additions to the law on inspection of the act after the termination of the procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposed to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At its 41st meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Inspection Act submitted by a group of Members and Members with their first-signed colleague, Kordis. The College of the President of the National Assembly has decided that the proposal for that regulation shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of our Rules of Procedure in a simplified manner. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Chamber of Commerce and representatives of certain other civil society organisations participated in the work of the Committee, as is the result of the report itself on the work of the Committee. The Committee was also given an opinion by our Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects. It made specific comments to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 and, inter alia, drew attention to certain provisions where the proposed measures go beyond the powers of the inspectors and also raised the question of the proportionality of certain measures. The Commission of the State Council, which is responsible for social protection, healthcare and disabled persons, has also addressed a proposal for a regulation which, as it stated in its opinion, is not supported. The representative of the applicant said in his introductory explanation that they wanted to ensure by means of a proposal for a law that the undercover working relationships discovered by labour inspectors would be transformed into regular employment, rather than simply ending cooperation between the employer and the employee without the employer settling obligations arising from the covert working relationship. In the context of the debate on the draft law, on the basis of the fact that the Government had reached agreement with the social partners before or just before the discussion on the Labour Committee started, and the text of its labour inspection law had also been adopted by the Government, the proposed conclusion that the draft law under consideration was not suitable for further consideration. In the context of the debate on the decision, it has been pointed out that the law regulates the problem of chastity on our market and violations related to the non-payment of wages. However, the proposed novel under consideration considered that the government proposal was incomplete, as it excludes workers working through intervention agencies. He also stressed that their proposal was better, that some of their solutions followed good practice consistently, and he did not agree with the Government's comments on certain provisions of their novel. He did not agree that the unions were rejecting their proposal, but he felt that the Government had made a deal with employers to the detriment of workers. In the discussion below, it was explicitly stressed that the Government did not force anything to make an agreement, i.e. an agreement signed between employers and most trade unions, if we are very precise between the five employers' associations and the seven trade unions. We agreed that the matter should be settled as soon as possible, as well as in cooperation with the social partners, as social dialogue must certainly be respected and nurtured as a positive value further. Following that discussion, the Committee adopted, by 10 votes in favour and 2 votes against, that the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Inspection Act was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u75	In order to present my position on the proposal of the working body, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law to Mr Mihi Kordiš. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman. The aim of our proposal is to ensure that fine-tuning workers are given regular employment and to prevent criminal practices in the labour market. According to our proposal, employers who illegally employ workers through espionage or through illegal agencies should allow these workers to work on a regular basis. This would protect workers on the one hand, while at the same time it would be an additional penalty for violators. The government invites Members to reject our proposal and wait until September for a government proposal to be considered. The Socialists urge you not to do so. The problem is not only that the new powers inspection will wait 4 months, but the problem is that the government proposal leaves workers from illegal labour brokering agencies behind. I will give you a very illustrative example to understand why our proposal is better than the government. This is an example of port service providers in Luka Koper, which we all know. Last October, the work inspection finally banned one of these IPSs. The decision was also confirmed by the Ministry of Labour, but it did not help the workers. Did Luca Koper hire them directly? No, no, no. They were simply hired through another IPS, through another boss, and this whole thing for a lower salary than they got at the first boss. And the proposal of the Ministry of Anya Kopač The Dark does not persecute such masters, but actually protects them. If our marriage were to take effect, of course it would be different. If the government law is enforced, it will remain the same. That is why I call on all Members to reconsider how you will vote. If you vote against our law, you will also vote to ensure that employees from various IPSs, Marof trades and cleaning services remain second-rate workers without their rights. So today it is not only the labour inspection law, but also what will be done in the field of labour rights by the end of this mandate. If you vote against our proposal, you will indirectly support the harmful agreement reached by the Government on 7 June with employers. This agreement is: Employers support the government's mini-reform if the coalition rejects the proposed labour inspection laws and the minimum wage proposed on the left. The government has therefore purchased employers' support at the expense of the most neglected groups of workers, these are workers from illegal agencies, such as the IPS already mentioned in the Kore port, who are not protected by the government's labour inspection law, but are protected by their masters, and these are workers who receive a minimum wage and who would be entitled, on our proposal, to an allowance for work performance and unfavourable working conditions. Dear Members of the Coalition! This agreement has not only been signed by the social partners, it has also been signed by the presidents of your parties, on your behalf. When the Social Democrats, for example, found out about the employers' demands, they wrote them down, and I will quote them: "At the request of employers, it is an extremely distasteful blackmail and an unprecedented attempt at tied trade. This is completely unacceptable to us.” And yet your client bosses have finally raised their hand for this deal. That is why I call upon you once again and finally to keep your word, to reject this tied trade, which you are rhetorically abusing, and to support our law in the interest of the most exploited categories of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u77	I give the floor to the representative of the Government and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mrs Martini Vuk to present my position on the proposal of the working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposed amendment to the Labour Inspection Act has been received and follows from this opinion that the Government of this proposal does not support the law. The reason for this non-support is not trade-related, but it is that the proposed law regulates, to a certain extent, certain matters which need to be regulated and in this way also follows the Government's proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Labour Inspection Act, which was drawn up on the basis of the proposals of the Working Group for decent work and given to the public debate on 18 November 2016. The final content of the proposal, which was also adopted by the Government on 8 June and sent to the National Assembly of Slovenia, was prepared together with the social partners. The government novel of the Labour Inspection Act is the result of an agreement between the social partners, which is the result of social dialogue. As I said, the proposal of the United Left Group in some part follows the proposal of the Working Group, but in some key solutions it is not appropriate, since it does not take into account that some of the solutions have already been implemented and implemented, such as the protection of the employee with regard to outstanding claims and limitation periods. At the same time, it does not take into account that certain solutions are at odds with each other, such as the assumption of a full-time job, which is contrary to the findings of the labour inspector. However, some solutions do not take into account the principles of the inspection procedure, such as the fact that the Inspector's decision must follow the facts found. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we are well aware of the pressing challenges in the labour market and are therefore preparing appropriate solutions, of course, together with the social partners, because our working arrangements have been based on social bargaining for many years. If we stop this social bargaining once, twice, three times, then we can witness the consequences that can lead to a completely wrong side or another side where the protection of workers will suffer. We are therefore aware that an agreement between the social partners on measures aimed at improving the functioning of the labour market is crucial for a well-prepared legislation that must, in the first place, protect the interests of workers while, of course, promoting the development of the economy on the other hand. With amendments to the three laws, the Ministry, together with the social partners, is currently facing the biggest challenges in the labour market, such as the fight against leniency and faster activation of the unemployed. These measures, which we have taken in the dialogue between the social partners, are aimed at the most vulnerable groups, namely, those who are forced to work as a guide, workers who are not paid and those who cannot be included in the labour market. Together with active employment policy measures, the changes will lead to an increase in employment and the inclusion in the labour market of those who are long-term unemployed, while preventing and sanctioning violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u79	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr Vice President. We have been monitoring and drawing attention to violations of labour law in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group for a long time. We are convinced that this unacceptable situation in this area should be addressed as soon as possible by adopting an appropriate legislative amendment. The exploitation of workers is a topic with a very long beard, and it is right that we pay particular attention to this issue and that the legislative branch of the government also warns the Government to prepare appropriate solutions to address such situations. The main solutions proposed by the proposer go in the right direction, but some of the solutions proposed are incomplete and could lead employers and even employees in companies to a very difficult situation or even to a loss of employment. This cannot and cannot be the aim of any law, so it is imperative that such solutions be examined, especially in the Economic and Social Council. In particular, it is a solution to enable inspectors to issue a prohibition decision for the entire employer's work process in the event that the employer does not pay the employee on time only once. This could affect all workers in the work process who would be prevented from continuing their work because of a mistake or negligence of the employer or any misunderstanding with the worker. We cannot therefore support such a solution, in particular because it is not complete and consistent with all the social partners. As regards the negative conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration, we will vote quorum in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u81	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Members and other Members! For the second time, we have in the legislative debate a proposal for amendments to the Labour Inspection Act, which unfortunately was once again not in line with the social partners in the Economic and Social Council. If the initial proposal, rejected last year in May, has encouraged the Government or, if you want, the coalition to join the labour market reform under the auspices of the Decent Work Project, this last proposal has spurred a year-long social dialogue, which eventually produced some fruit. And we can take this as a good conclusion, as the social partners have finally reached an agreement on at least the bulk of the changes. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that there is a need to continue to work towards constructive social dialogue in order to achieve the broadest possible consensus among all the social partners. True, there are workers on the one hand who, in any case, we must take as the weaker side in any contractual relationship with employers, but without the minimum consent of them, are difficult to form and fill the labour market. Another reason is why Members and Members Desus will vote that the proposal under consideration is not suitable for further consideration. Some of the proposed solutions to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Inspection of Work have proved inconsistent, contrary to themselves, which do not take into account the foundations of the applicable legal framework, which means more precisely that they do not follow the principles and already established solutions to the inspection procedure from the general administrative procedure and do not follow the principle of substantive truth and that the Inspector's action must follow the facts found. I would like to recall, however, that we have repeatedly warned in the Desus Group, and we will repeat this again and again in the future, that it is imperative to strengthen the inspectorate to work with additional financial resources and personnel, because we do not believe that only 42 inspectors can continuously and effectively control more than 200 000 business entities. This is also heard several times on our part, and we reiterate that we believe that there are bright exceptions among our employers. We know you're not going to throw all the job providers in the same basket. For we have many honest employers who not only respect the law but also respect their workers and do not exploit them, and do not see in them only the cost to be reduced as much as possible, but pay them properly and reward them because they also care for their satisfaction in the company. However, we fear that such employers are in a minority. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we believe that there is also a need for a mental shift in social values in our country. These have been in the wrong direction for too long. Until the conversion into the thinking of those who have more power than others, including the competent ministries and institutions that should ensure respect for laws, we will unfortunately not be able to avoid such and other abuses in Slovenia if we still have rigorously written laws. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u83	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! On the Committee on Labour, we strongly supported the decision that the law was not suitable for further consideration for a simple reason, the law was not prepared optimally, and the Government, a few hours earlier, had confirmed the amendment of the Labour Inspection Act, which, in all of this, was in line with the social partners. The text of the government law is the result of the agreement reached between the partners. I will also briefly summarize in this position the opinion that we would follow in our parliamentary group at a different time, and we would not support this law. In addition to the Government's opposition, the State Council and the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate have also rejected the proposal, which will be decided today. They were not fully satisfied with it, as the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health, Persons with Disabilities, Trade Unions or Employers shows, at least as explained in the debate at the meeting of the said Commission. Both of them had concerns. I'm not talking about opposition, as someone shamelessly urged on the board, but about concerns, and these concerns are legitimate. Social Democrats believe that it is bad and wrong to accept some superficial solutions that could cause both workers and employers more harm than benefits. This could, in the opinion of some of the discussers, also happen at a meeting of the Commission of the State Council if the proposal were approved. We also believe that it is wrong to rule on the consensus of key actors. Social dialogue is very important for social Democrats, so we are always inclined to make additional efforts and achieve at least some minimum consensus, not to work and decide unilaterally. The government has already forwarded a package of two laws, coordinated with both employers and trade unions, to the National Assembly, a committee on which we lit the red light, as well as a signed agreement on all, I stress, all stakeholders in social dialogue. Therefore, it is very unrealistic and unfortunate to say that it is a related trade between the Government and employers. This is not the case, since agreement has been reached by all parties. It is an agreement of all parties and it is therefore at least permissible for social dialogue to be degraded and to such a level and to be done in a worthless manner. In order to create a conflict between employers and unions at the expense of deepening the existing, natural differences between them, continuous creations are particularly harmful to those you claim to protect. But they don't. You're hurting them. These are, in addition to certain substantive reasons, the main reasons why this law would not receive our support. As has already been said, we are very pleased that the government law is in line with the social partners and that it is appropriate in the social dialogue already in the National Assembly and we will deal with it in a reduced manner, expected at the next meeting. That is why, of course, in our parliamentary group, we will also support this decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u85	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. The hypocrites, the manipulators, the liars! This could be said for the previous debaters who came up here and reasoned on why they would vote against the law [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u87	Mr. Kordish, please be respectful of your colleagues and colleagues! Please! Please be respectful of your colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u88	President, you're stealing my time to present your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u89	I could've turned it down for you!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u90	I mean, may I continue? This was a positioning and justification for rejecting the Act on the Inspection of Work, which would protect hidden working relationships in forced espas and in workers working in illegal agencies. And the Socialists, of course, will not support the conclusion that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Not only is our proposal very suitable for further consideration, but this law is even necessary if we are to protect the most neglected categories of workers. As far as the Ministry is concerned, there are three things I'd like to say. Firstly, our proposal does not follow the government, because we have already tabled it in March 2016, then the Government and its coalition on the Committee rejected it in May and began preparing theirs under pressure in November. Come in. In the legislative process, we have amended our own proposal and have thus taken into account the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. However, I categorically reject the fact that our marriage interferes with the jurisdiction of the working courts. If this were the case, then the Law on the Prevention of Work for Black, which was adopted three years ago, would also affect the jurisdiction of the courts. This is, for example, one of those lies operated by fellow Members of Parliament. The purpose of our law is that workers who have to work through espies or illegal subcontractors receive regular employment in a parent company. After all, the Government will propose this for espionage itself and I do not really understand why it does not want to grant the same rights to workers from illegal labour agencies. However, even now, the inspectors in the ban decisions say that the employer can also remedy the infringement by hiring the worker. Unfortunately, this option is not binding at this time, and we are only proposing that this case of good practice be transferred to the law itself. Otherwise, what we saw in Luka Koper will be repeated. The labour inspector banned the work of one of the IPSs, but Luke did not employ his workers at his place, but simply hired them through another user, through another IPS. As I have said in the introduction, the problem is not only that the Government would like to overtake our proposal by means of its law, which leaves the workers of illegal agencies entirely to their detriment. The problem is the related trade concluded by the Government on 7 June with employers. The government has bought employers' support by rejecting our proposal for a minimum wage law and continuing to support the introduction of a contractual job failure. In short, if Members vote as the Presidents of their parties signed on 7 June, namely the Presidents of Desus, SMC and Social Democrats, then workers with minimum wage will not have the right to an allowance for working time and difficult working conditions in the future, no matter how old they are, everyone will receive the same payment. Unfortunately, this tied trade goes not only at the expense of fines and minimum wage workers, but also threatens those workers who are over 55 years of age or who are disabled and now enjoy special protection against job failure. And if a government proposal for an agreement and termination of employment is adopted, this protection will only exist on paper. An agreed termination of employment, as proposed by the Government, is in fact a bypass of these guards, as the employer will first threaten an older worker with dismissal for false reasons and then take a virtual step back and offer him an agreed termination with compensation. This may seem okay at first sight, but in the end, the worker will lose everything after six months. He won't be able to get a new job, he won't be able to get a replacement at his office, he won't even be able to apply for social assistance until he burns all his savings. Therefore, the government proposal must be rejected. When the Social Democrats found out about the government's agreement with employers, as I said in the introduction, I will quote: "In the request of employers, it is an extremely distasteful blackmail and an unprecedented attempt to trade. This is completely unacceptable to us.” It is totally unacceptable for us, too, that the Presidents of Desus, SMC and Social Democrats have agreed to a directive of employers. I therefore once again call on all Members to reject this dictatorship and to support our law. If the law goes forward, it could already enter into force 1. August, and for all the illegally exploited workers, not just for espaes. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u91	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of New Slovenia - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u92	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! At the beginning of the position of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats – let me stress that the situation in the labour market for some groups, especially young, young women, after 50 years of age are extremely acute. But most of all, it's the fact that people feel like things are only getting worse. Together we can therefore find that measures in the last 10 years mostly left governments in Slovenia do not produce successes. There is no progress, not for workers or employers. The Ministry clearly does not carry out its tasks in the field of the labour market, or only fires are extinguished by individual measures. They have too many excuses for social dialogue. It would be time for the Ministry to take responsibility and settle the area, as the opposition's initiative is currently being abandoned. Another thing we must warn Christian Democrats about is the flat-rate labelling of all employers, that they are exploiters and that they are all forcing their employees into imaginary self-employment. We regularly visit numerous companies, macros, micro, small businesses, medium and large, as part of our visits to the field. We can assure you that good employers appreciate their employees and are aware that this is the largest and most valuable capital of their company. Regrettably, on the other hand, there are some who do not respect the human dignity of workers and do not practice marginal and illegal practices. Such sanctions must be effective, so that they do not repeat their actions. Unfortunately, this is not something to feel in Slovenia today, and this is the primary responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Even more worrying is the fact that irregularities and disrespect of workers are taking place in companies where the country owns them. The state affords itself many things that are evident to independent entrepreneurs and craftsmen. It is unacceptable that the supervisory authorities do not have an overview of the state-owned enterprises’ exploitation of workers and employment through employment agencies. While the law of the United Left Group also quite well identifies what are the biggest anomalies in the labour market with us, the solutions proposed do not, in our opinion, lead to the removal of the causes of these acts. The new Slovenia proposes clear solutions. Lower workload by contributions and taxes and elimination of red tape. On the other hand, the creation of quality jobs. Thus, employers would not be motivated to resort to infringements of the legal provisions. The proposal that the law is not suitable for further consideration will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u93	Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Dear fellows and fellows, very nice to meet you! The main objective of the proposed amendment to the Labour Inspection Act is to ensure that undercover working relationships are transformed into regular employment. Furthermore, according to the proposaler, the adoption of the novel today would achieve a number of objectives, namely improving the situation and awareness of workers and preventing unfair competition and social dumping. Labour law, as a separate legal sector, is relatively young and has not developed until about 100 years ago in order to realize the right to human dignity, to ensure the safety and health of the worker at work. Thus, labour legislation protects persons who carry out work in a subordinate manner in a way that ensures them a minimum level of rights and obligations laid down by law. However, in order to ensure effective legal protection for all who need it, it is essential to identify the criteria by which the working relationship is recognised in practice. However, despite the criteria and principles, such as the principle of the advantage of facts over the form of a contract, it is sometimes not so easy to recognize. For increasing competition in the labour market, globalisation and technological progress on the one hand, as well as the tendency of employers to reduce labour costs on the other hand, have a strong impact on the organisation of work on a daily basis. As a result, employers decide on the supply of atypical forms of work, usually on a permafrost basis. Thus, we are all too often aware of cases where the working relationship outside is shown as a contractual relationship of civil law, with a view to reducing the protection of workers or avoiding the payment of taxes and contributions. In other words, it's a so-called covert work relationship. The task of the State should be to ensure, through the consistent implementation of the existing regulation and the development of new means, effective control and sanctioning of such abuses. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members and also in the Alliance, we believe that it is high time for this issue to be addressed in concrete terms. Therefore, we will vote against the proposed decision if we wish to exceed the unfavourable and unacceptable consequences of concealing the true nature of the contractual relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u95	Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you very much. In the solutions envisaged today's amendment to the Labour Inspection Act, we discussed in the National Assembly last year. Following the then rejection of the novel, a working group of social partners was launched to reach agreement in the context of social dialogue on changes to labour law. And so did he. At the time of the negotiations with the social partners, the proposal was re tabled by the proposed amendment to the Labour Inspection Act, which we have on the table today. According to the applicant, there is a hidden employment ratio in growth, an increase in the number of self-employed persons and an increase in the number of workers working under a posting contract or agency workers. The applicant, on the basis of this Decision, considers that these cases involve hidden working relationships, as there is also an increase in the number of detected infringements of the prohibition of work under civil law contracts in cases where there are elements of a working relationship. We agree that the state of compliance with labour law in Slovenia is alarming and that the problem of increasing the number of hidden employment relationships needs to be limited. At the same time, it is important that the hidden working relationships discovered by labour inspectors are transformed into regular employment instead of ending cooperation between the worker and the employer in this way. On the one hand, it is imperative to amend the legislation governing the inspection of work in order to enable inspectors to have more powers and, on the other hand, changes in the thinking of employers and employees should also be made. We believe that the amendment to the Act on Inspection of Work, which we are considering today, is a step in the right direction. However, it is essential to stress in this regard that this proposal has not been prepared in cooperation with the social partners and is not the result of social dialogue. Indeed, when amending legislation that has a decisive impact on the position of the worker, it is necessary to strive for social dialogue as constructively as possible and as a result of the broadest agreement reached between the social partners. The government has taken the approach of creating changes in the field of labour law in a way that has led to the formation of a negotiating group of social partners. In the context of the social dialogue, the Government initiated the drafting of amendments to the Labour Inspection Act, the Labour Relations Act and the Labour Market Regulation Act and reached agreement with the social partners on labour inspection and labour market regulation on 7 June. Only a day later, the novels were also co-ordinated with the social partners in government. In the light of the current situation and aware that social dialogue is an important value, Members of the Modern Centre Party feel that the proposal for a law that we are considering today is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u97	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the exclusion of the possibility of invalids after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, to Mrs Martini Vuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. The main content of the current Disability Equalization Act is a variety of measures to equalize these options, so the law allows co-financing of technical devices for sensory disabled, these are blind and visually impaired, deaf and deaf, deaf and deaf, which have thus become much more accessible for everyday use. Here we are talking about specially adapted computers, phones, hours, electronic nannies, bells, in short, something we all need every day, and for sensor-obstructed, it has to be specially adapted. The law also allows the co-financing of the adjustment or processing of vehicles for the most difficult traffic obstacles, but also provides a call centre for hearing impaired persons. In 2016, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, together with the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, launched a European project on the European Charter of Benefits for Persons with Disabilities. This project has enabled the design of a card to enable the disabled to be treated more uniformly in the exercise of various commercial benefits in Slovenia and in other Member States of the European Union, while disabled persons from other Member States of the European Union can benefit from the same commercial benefits as disabled Slovenian citizens. With the proposed amendment to the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Disabled Persons, we systematically place the disability card as an additional measure to equalize the possibility of disabled persons in law. This card will be issued by administrative units, thereby establishing a single card system and providing protection to both beneficiaries and commercial beneficiaries. The main objective of the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities in front of you is therefore to enable people with disabilities to be treated more uniformly in the area of transport, tourism, culture, sport and leisure in Slovenia and also in other Member States of the European Union. In addition to the above, some amendments are also governed by the law, which in particular reduce administrative barriers. The beneficiaries will also submit applications for technical aids and vehicle adaptations electronically through eGovernment. All applications will be able to be submitted to any administrative unit, irrespective of the applicant's residence. In addition, we introduce a novelty in Slovenia – the possibility of acquiring a dog assistant. The dog’s assistant will be justified by the severest or most difficult movement. That is why this is new, since until now only the blind were entitled to the guide’s dog by means of health insurance. In turn, they will be able to get their hands on the dog’s handiwork, which will be trained on a public invitation to tender, and will be able to make life much easier for them. Thus, the Law on the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, with all proposed amendments, further contributes to the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Action Programme for Persons with Disabilities, in force in 2014-2021, and the European Strategy on Disability for the period 2010-2020. In particular, it contributes further to the equalisation of opportunities for people with disabilities in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities as the mother's working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u100	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At its 41st meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a law on equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities. The law was introduced into the procedure of the Government and the College of the President of the National Assembly decided to consider a proposal for a regulation following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the State Council and the National Council of Disability Organisations in Slovenia and, of course, the Council for Persons with Disabilities of the Republic of Slovenia also participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion from our legislative service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and made comments, as follows from the report itself. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which, of course, also supports the proposal of the law. The debate initially pointed out that the aim of the law is to create equal opportunities for people with disabilities in all areas of life, and particularly to facilitate the mobility of persons with disabilities within the European Union. This contributes to the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Programme of Action for Persons with Disabilities for the period 2014-2021 and the European Disability Strategy for the period 2010-2020. In 2016, our country launched a European project on a European Disability Card. The implementation of the European project also requires the completion of the ZIMI or the Equalization of the Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities Act. The European Disability Card will be issued by administrative units and it is therefore necessary to amend that law in order to determine the procedure. Amendments to the law will allow persons with disabilities to be treated more uniformly in favour of transport, tourism, culture, sport and leisure in Slovenia, or in other Member States of the European Union or otherwise, disabled persons from other Member States of the European Union will be able to benefit from the same benefits as disabled persons who are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law also regulates some minor amendments to the text of the law, which are more or less of a nomotechnic nature and reduces administrative obstacles, let me mention only an e-application. Without discussion, the Committee also adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 9, 12, 5, 14 and 15 and to the title of the last chapter. In accordance with the business arrangements, he finally voted on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. However, the amended proposal for this law is an integral part of the report that I have presented to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u101	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the last of which is Mr Uroš Prikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you so much again and again a nice hello! The position of our parliamentary group is here, I believe, even as the views of the other parliamentary groups are very uniform and firm. Disability is a circumstance, a problem that each of us can face in just a tiny fraction of a second. Persons with disabilities must not be a group that depends solely on the special kindness or consideration of the State, state institutions, in order to be able to participate equally in society and, above all, to live a normal, normal life. Not to be socially excluded, but to participate in society and to be included in it is the fundamental right of every citizen of the world and of Europe as well as of Slovenia. The modern view of disability is based on human rights, i.e. on the prohibition of all discrimination, and on the provision of equal opportunities and equal treatment for everyone. By concretely creating equal opportunities for people with disabilities or even positive discrimination in all areas of life, the state or society, if we look slightly wider, not only follows commitments made under either international legislation, international directives, conventions or national commitments, but actually does what society must do. In the Desus Group, we agree with the amendment to the Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities, as it is a major step towards ensuring greater mobility and also the inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. Solutions to this bill will make it easier for people with disabilities in their daily lives. In the first place, we are already doing a lot by removing administrative barriers. Thus, the law allows for the submission of an application and for the payment of a technical device and for the submission of applications for the enforcement of vehicle adjustment costs on any administrative unit or online. The cancellation of the destroyed or lost valuation is also significantly facilitated as it can be made in a similar way to other vehicle adjustments and so on. The main novelty of this law, which we particularly welcome in the Desus Group, is the introduction of a so-called European card, which enables both our citizens and other citizens of the European Union to apply commercial discounts in any country, such as transport, cultural institutions, sports events, tourism and could also be listed. And, of course, to understand each other, the possibility of using these various discounts and benefits is, of course, linked to the offer that each country is offering to the disabled. To conclude, the present novel ZIMI will, according to the assessment of Members and Members of our parliamentary group, allow easier treatment in the exercise of various benefits, facilitation in terms of administrative procedures relating to the exercise of rights. All of this, in our view, has much added value to the greater, better quality of life and the living of people with disabilities in modern society. So, as we say, we will unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u103	Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u104	Once again, hello to all present! The Disability Equalization Act, adopted in 2010, was first completed in 2014 and again today, deals with the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities. The purpose of the law is to prevent and eliminate discrimination against disabled persons based on disability. To achieve this, this discrimination must be prohibited. The purpose of the law is to create equal opportunities for people with disabilities in all areas of life. In order to facilitate the mobility of persons with disabilities in the European Union, the European Commission has supported efforts to create a mutually recognised European disability card that allows persons with disabilities equal opportunities in all Member States to give up certain of the special benefits provided by Member States to persons with disabilities. Since 2016, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, together with the project partner of the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, has been implementing a project of the European Disability Benefit Card. On the basis of this project, it will allow people with disabilities to be treated more uniformly in the area of transport, tourism, culture, sport and leisure. With a disability card, disabled persons in European Union countries will be able to apply special commercial discounts in the various areas of life available to them in individual countries. The card is intended for blind and visually impaired, deaf and deaf, deaf, mobilely disabled persons with mental and mental health problems and individuals or individuals with other types of disability. An online benefit database and mobile application will be established, offering a range of benefits offered by various commercial providers. The database is being prepared by the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia. In addition to that proposal, some minor amendments to the text of the law, which are nomotechnical or reduce administrative obstacles, also govern the law. In the latter, we must stress that we are truly extremely pleased to finally end this law, deliberately using a strong word, bureaucratic stupidity, which included a dog assistant among technical aids. Probably no one thought exactly about the consequences of such bureaucratic nonsense until he rounded up the case of blind Alexander and her helper dog, Ping’s best friend in public. We can't afford what she's been through. This was lifeless, inhumane, and, above all, without a shred of empathy — bureaucratic. Unfortunately, it is always happening to us that they find such a different way into our legislation, so it is all the more important that we react and eliminate them, and that is what we are doing with this law. In other cases, we even do this very quickly. After the application of the provisions of this Act, the administrative unit shall, on the basis of an expert opinion on the eligibility of an assistant dog, issue a decision authorising the training of the assistant dog and a decision on the allocation of the invalid dog to the owner. I'll take care of We hope that after the adoption of this law, some disabled people who have recognized themselves in Alexandra’s situation will be able to sleep a little easier, since no one will be able to take their best friend away from them. On the basis of all that has been said in our parliamentary group, we welcome the law and we will also unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u105	Mr Miha Kordish will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. On the left, we support this proposal. The aim of introducing a benefit card or a European disability card is to simplify the right to impose special commercial discounts and benefits for disabled persons at European Union level. With it, it will be able to exercise the right to benefit outside Slovenia, and foreign holders of this card will also be able to exercise rights with us. This is a European project, which Slovenia has already joined in the first place, and therefore this benefit card has not yet been accepted in any Member State, and the project is currently being implemented in eight Member States, is in the process of being introduced. The project will also establish an online benefit database, a mobile application that will show users possible discounts and benefits in a specific location. We support such projects on the Left, but we point out that the Government must first pay attention to problems that go beyond commercial discounts. One of the major cases faced by persons with disabilities is discrimination in the field of employment based on the recent report of the Advocate of Equality. And so the question is whether people with disabilities really need additional capitalist, seemingly benefits, which in some cases are just a disguised way to extract from their pockets a few more euros that they consider to be a normal, basic survival. And how should they benefit abroad if they do not have the means to get there at all because they do not have a job to afford a custom vehicle or transportation. In this and a number of other problems faced by people with disabilities in Slovenia, such or other plastic cards are unfortunately not helpful.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia we have always supported efforts to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and to ensure equal opportunities. The last concrete example is the proposal of the Personal Assistance Act, which we have adopted together. That is why we also support this time the Amendment and the Complementation of the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities. However, we must stress that the current proposal does not guarantee new rights for people with disabilities in Slovenia. As I understand from the material, it will only make it easier for them to go to reliefs, discounts and the like, as already provided by museums, theatres, sports players and so on. And that's good. Unfortunately, this still does not mean that services will actually be accessible to people with disabilities. This does not mean that the blind will be able to see, tap or touch exhibits, for example at the National Gallery at the 800th anniversary of the Maltese Knights' Order in Slovenia. This still does not mean that the buildings in which these events take place are accessible to the disabled, or that the induction loops are deaf. In New Slovenia, we expect all new public areas or buildings to be fully accessible to disabled people and older ones to complete renovations. In New Slovenia, we also expect Slovenia to support the efforts of many Member States of the European Union to adopt a directive on the availability of goods and services as soon as possible. Only then will we be able to say that using a card allows for equal opportunities and contributes to improving the quality of life. As we say, Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ms Erika Dekleva will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u110	All due respect! Slovenia is a social and legal country with a modern disability protection policy that is comparable to policies in other developed European countries. It is a State that realizes the principles of social justice and equal opportunities for all, and in its Article 14 of the Constitution it provides that human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed to everyone, irrespective of personal circumstances, including disability. The number of people with disabilities in Europe and in the world is high. Together with family members, friends and caregivers, disabled people have a great potential in planning new target groups of users. Currently, about 10% of the world's population or 650 million people live with disabilities. There are 80 million people with disabilities in the European Union, representing 16% of the total population. In Slovenia, there are 170,000 people with disabilities, representing 8.5% of the population. According to the World Health Organization, the number of people with disabilities is still increasing and the increase is mainly due to population ageing and increased incidence of chronic diseases. It is also overwhelming that in countries with an average life expectancy of 70 years, an average individual spends about 8 years with a certain disability in his life. The group of potential users therefore includes a group of older people who will increase significantly over the coming decades. Persons with disabilities represent a sixth of the EU's workforce, but their employment rate is relatively low. Because of the poorer opportunities for education and employment, they are often in a poor social and financial situation. The main amendment envisaged by the proposal of the law concerns the implementation of a project in which administrative units will produce invalidity card benefits that will facilitate mobility for disabled persons. A single disability benefit card will enable people with disabilities to be treated more uniformly in favour of transport, tourism, culture, sport and leisure in Slovenia as well as in other EU Member States, or disabled persons from other EU Member States can benefit from the same benefits as disabled Slovenian citizens. The amendment of the law represents the final and urgent phase of the European Disability Benefit Card project, which will enable people with disabilities to become more mobile within EU Member States. As disabled citizens of the European Union still face certain borders within the Member States, we believe that the adoption of the amendment of the Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities is a major step forward. Accordingly, the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party supports the proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude my consideration of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes the third item of the agenda. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of a bill amending the Military Cemetery Act, a summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to Mrs Martini Vuk, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In 2003, the National Assembly adopted the War Cemetery Act, which for the first time systematically regulated the area of military graves. In 2009, an amendment to the War Cemetery Act was adopted, which laid down, inter alia, in article 7a, that a monument be placed in the main city of the country for all victims of war and war-related victims in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia with a dedicated inscription of a memorial nature, which reads: "Homeland is one to us, and one life and one death to us all. (Oton Župančič)"The new law was submitted by a group of Members and Members to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption. But he was accepted without a vote against it. In 2014, after the novel was adopted, the relatives of poet Oton Župančič warned of the incorrect recording of the first song kitina Domovina is one. According to relatives, the original text is, and thus, the true meaning that the poet had in mind, written in versions and with the right distinction, is without a single comma, which was written down to the bill’s proponents. The National Assembly was also informed of the above. We therefore propose to amend that article of the War Cemetery Act, in order to harmonise the marriage text with the correct original writing of the first song kitina Homeland is one, as well as due to the moral attitude and respect of the State towards the poet. The proposed amendment of the law provides for the same solution as laid down in the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and in the Slovenian national flag and there shall therefore apply to the hymn of the Republic of Slovenia, so that only the title of the song, author and kitique which it wishes to mention shall be given. As a result of this, the proposed new article of the War Cemetery Act now states: “In the main city of the country a monument is placed to all victims of war and war-related victims in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The first kitica of the song Oton Župančič “Domovina is one” is used as a memorial inscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you very much, colleague Hainz. At its 41st meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a law amending the War Cemetery Act, which was tabled by the Government, which is being considered on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly, following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer, i.e. the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the Office of the President of the State, the representative of the Commission of the State Social Council and Mrs Alenka Župančič, took part in the work of the Committee. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects and had no comments on the proposed text. The Committee has also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which has addressed and supported the proposal of this Act. The representative of the drafter of the law said, in her introduction, that the amendment to Article 7a of the Law was necessary in order to harmonise the legal text with the correct original record of the first verse of the song, as well as the moral attitude and respect of the State towards the poet. The Ministry provided the same solution as provided for in the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian national flag for the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. In a short discussion, which took place on Article 1 of the bill and on the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, the representative of the United Left Group presented their proposal for an amendment to the Committee and said that, in their opinion, we do not need such a reconciliation monument, but if so, they are proposing two amendments: version 6 of the lyrics of the poem by Matthew Bor Previjam storms and enlargement to the global level, so that the monument would be intended for all war victims. The granddaughter Oton Župančič, Mrs. Zupančič, who participated in the meeting of the committee, has repeatedly pointed out the incorrect recording of the first feat of the song Domovina is one and suggested that the law should make it more clear to whom the monument is intended or whether it is intended for the deceased Slovenes outside the borders of Slovenia and the deceased members of the occupying party on Slovenian soil. In my own discussion, I pointed out that the purpose of the amendment of the law is to correct the incorrect record and the incomplete reference of the author, not to intervene in the substantive direction or intent of the law itself. The government has drawn up a proposal for a novel for technical harmonisation of the legislative text, thereby harmonising the legal order, as well as for the moral attitude and respect of the State for the poet. The Committee further did not support the proposal for an amendment proposed by a fellow Member from the United Nations Group of Ambassadors and adopted, namely, both articles together. As no amendments were adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disability of the National Assembly proposes that the draft law amending the Law on Cemetery should be adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u116	Nice to meet you all again! The position on this proposal for a new law will be as brief as the law itself. We'll support the novelty. As has already been said, this is a nomotechnical correction of the text that took place at the time of the adoption of the law in 2009. In 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Cemeteries Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic, and was supported by 50 Members in the vote. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the War Cemetery Act was added to article 7.a, which states: “In the main city of the country a monument is placed to all victims of war and to wars related to victims in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia with a dedicated inscription of memorial nature: Homeland is one to us, and one life and one death to us all. It's a parishioner. The authors of copyright by poet Oton Župančič have repeatedly warned that the law was wrong. With this novel, we therefore correct the spelling error and align the legal text with the correct text of the first song kit. As we say, in our Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Ms Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, chairman. The unfortunate monument is already standing, almost finished, and today’s novel is the last episode that shows that it is a total disaster. It is a monument that shows that the entire political establishment has lost the compass as well as the busola. On the forehead of course with Borut Pahor and with the entire so-called left middle. And it's ironic that this very left-handed environment is the one that did the most to review the history that destroyed the status and role of the People's Liberation Fight and narrowed the door to the darkness. The memorial to the victims of all wars, as it is set out, extends the logic of the so-called reconciliation to the extent that it functions as a monument to historical revisionism. Two world wars took place in the territory of Slovenia in the previous century, and we both had our own autonomous resistance. In World War I, these were Yugoslav volunteers and rebels in the Austrian army, such as the famous Judenburg victims. In World War II, of course, it was the Liberation Front, which fought against the Nazi invader and his associates. So I wonder what the meaning of the common monument is for someone who fell as a soldier in the hands of Austrian-German imperialism and for someone who fought against this imperialism. To an even greater extent, this is true of World War II, for some fought against Nazism and others fought against Nazism, and others fought against Nazism, and with this Nazifascism. He's not here, and there definitely can't be any common ground. But if the common point is death, as one of the coalition members whispered at the committee meeting, then I wonder if it is then also a monument to members of the Nazi Gestapo and the SS, because they are also dead. The role of the monument is primarily to erase the historical facts, to equate the political and visual definitions of the belligerent parties and to rehabilitate recently the collaboration with the Nazi occupier, who were decided by the then political and religious elites in Slovenia. The Partisan resistance and domestic collaboration want to show as two perfectly legitimate choices, in short two sides of the same coin. Despite the fact that one side fought for national, cultural and social freedom, the other for the final elimination of this freedom and the total deletion of Slovenians and Slovenes, respected colleagues and colleagues. The monument is also a break from an architectural and spatial point of view. In this regard, it agrees with both the professional and the general public. It is also because he abuses both the poet Oton Župančič and his version. The Mayor's version of Homeland was one they were written with a clear purpose to decorate the sarcophagus of the tomb of folk heroes. The purpose of this monument is to honor the National Liberation Fight and its fighters and fighters. His version is therefore gravely played and ripped out of context and transferred to a monument that equates victims and slaves, and this is unacceptable. Only the initial part of the song has been torn out, and this needs to be highlighted, so the abuse is even worse. This was also pointed out by the poet’s granddaughter on the committee. Zupančič welcomed the liberation of Ljubljana by the partisans with a famous speech. He wrote the first partisan song that was titled You know the poet's debt. The parishioner should not be on the monument, so in the United Left we proposed other versions of the poet Matthew Bor Previharima storm. The coalition's response was only silence and sedition. For the second time, after Pahor's government, the left centre is setting up a monument to falsify historical facts. The monument in the Congressional Market should be left unfinished, without a quote, as a reminder that the Slovenian political elites have lost their compass because they have turned their backs on the people and once again bowed before the capital, before Brussels, before Berlin. And Levi will vote against such a monument.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u120	Your Honor! The bill under consideration is a technical law, according to the proponents, which could be confirmed, but the debate at the parental committee's meeting showed that despite many efforts we still cannot discuss in peace and respectfully all the victims and freely continue our path to reconciliation and to live as a nation alone. Two years after the adoption of the Law on Hidden War Cemeteries and the Burial of Victims, which was prepared and invested in the treatment of Nova Slovenija. We are pleased that at that time the coalition also realized that it is high time for us as a civilized nation to bury all the victims, including those who were exterminated during and after the war. This dictates human dignity, we are obliged to do so as people, as a nation, and as a nation that builds its future from a cleansed past. After all wars, whether between nations or in civil wars and revolutions, they remain dead, to be buried and their graves marked with dignity. These are people, our brothers and sisters, regardless of whose side they fought and what their political beliefs, national affiliation, religion, or skin color were. It's the civil standard of a civilized human being and our humanity. This requires the sanctity of every man's life and the duty to respect all the dead. It is sad that the Slovenian people in their own country still feel the tragedy of the civil war. The severe pit, which has become synonymous with the weight of our conscience and the growing separation, requires us to complete this chapter of our common past history as other countries have done. We Christian Democrats have always argued that in searching for the civil code of these human remains, we must first properly bury, only after the burial, the chapter of this history, the planned monument. This cannot be disputed because the act of burial precludes further political manipulation of the dead, while at the same time liberating us from building an internal monument of victory and statehood as a nation. We will support the proposal of the novel of the War Cemetery Act because it is a proper record of the first song of Župančič's song Home is one and thus the original text of this hymn to the Slovenian homeland. At the same time, we expect the building of the monument to be a step towards reconciliation and not to new divisions. Therefore, we must make a conscious decision by all and not always impose new pollens for the nebula of impatience instead of reconciliation, which the monument is supposed to be intended for.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you for your floor. In 2009, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Cemeteries Act, which added Article 7a, which stipulates that a monument containing a quote shall be placed in the main city of the country, the first kitica of the Zupančič song Home is one. In the writing of the guitar in the then draft law, a comma was inserted, which is not recorded in the original recording of the County Song. After the amendments and additions to the War Cemetery Act in 2009, the authors of copyright by poet Oton Župančič were repeatedly reminded of the incorrect record of the first song by Domovina. The novelty that we are considering today removes this irregularity. The government proposal of the law provides for the same solution as provided for in the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and in the Slovenian national flag for the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we would like to point out that the proposed amendment does not change the concept of the regulation adopted in 2009, but in this case it is a technical harmonisation of the text. We believe that, in order to respect the effluence of poet Oton Župančič, the owners of copyright and moral relations in general, it is imperative to amend Article 7a by correct writing. For this reason, Members of the Modern Centre Party support the bill proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us a technical but urgent amendment to the War Cemetery Act, because it is linked to the correct record of the work, so the song of Oton Župančič is one. It is certainly not possible to oppose this, because, as has already been said, it is a work of art which certainly requires a precise record within the law in accordance with copyright and due to respect for the work of the author and poet. However, in the context of this change, I would like to draw attention again to some things which, as a state, which is precisely why it still bears moral debt, we have not been able to put into place and implement them in the way that civilisation standards do. The monument on which the Homeland will be written is one assigned to all of us, and one life, and one death, to all victims of inter-war and post-war events, and is supposed to unite at this important point in symbolism the Slovenian nation is still unlocked. Is that true? The monument, as the Prime Minister of the Government has said, is supposed to be a symbol of reconciliation, but is therefore, in an architectural and symbolic sense, designed to continue to shed light on the disunity of the nation and not of the union, since the monument is designed in the form of two separate pillars that do not unite. The massacre that took place after the war on Slovenian soil left more than 600 hidden seas behind because politics and state authorities are unable to implement basic civil standards in accordance with the justice and dignity of the victims and their owners. Even before the monument is erected, we should carry out all the key elements of the so-called transitional justice, whose realization is the only guarantee that it will once lead to reconciliation and unification of the Slovenian people on the content which is the essence and essence of the nation. We need to fulfil the right to conduct, which means we need to know all the historical facts and open the archives in full. We must fulfil the right to remedy injustices, which also includes the rehabilitation of post-war victims. We must fulfil the right to legality, that is, to process those who have committed genocide. It is a crime that is not outdated, not by international law and not by Slovenian law. And we must fulfil the guarantee of non-repetition, which includes the implementation of lustration laws and the consistent enforcement of democratic postulates, which include, in particular, respect for and protection of human rights and the application of the rule of law. These are, therefore, four key steps that should be taken before the Memorial is established so that the circle can finally be concluded and that we can close this chapter of our common tragic past. However, before the monument is erected, the civil code on the burial of all victims should also be fulfilled, since the grave is the inalienable right of each individual. Therefore, we can rightly believe that the monument is intended for fogging and repressing such important things somewhere far away to rob, so that we have a monument, the slain, their graves and those responsible for it, and we are no longer interested in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. A nice greeting to all three other Members of Parliament and Members who are still on this agenda! As a brief and concise amendment to the War Cemetery Act, the position of the Desus Group will be brief, and I present it. This law, which we have before us, is due to the lack of love of error, the genuine lack of love of error, which actually occurred when the Law was proposed and adopted in the National Assembly, and this is in the 2008-2011 mandate, that is, in 2009. It was a mistake to misquote the song of the great poet Oton Župančič. We may wonder why so far this error has not been rectified, either by the Members, or by a few convocations, or by the Government, or on the part of the Government, that this matter has been duly pointed out, if not by other relatives after the late poet Oton Župančič. However, before us is the law, before us is a change of law, which states that in accordance with copyright law there is also a need to record and quote songs consistently. We'll do that, write a song in the original, as of course it goes. We will do this in the interest of meeting such legal provisions, the legal standards, and, above all, due respect for the poet, the mandatory and necessary pieta to all victims of war and the related violence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. But once again, the monument is intended for all the victims. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendment at the assembly meeting cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the assembly meeting, in the framework of the votes. I hereby end the 4th item of the agenda and the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u128	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will carry out the voting in accordance with the following order: 17, 10, 2, 3, 4, 13, 14, 18 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft decision on the agreement on the rebalancing of the work programme and the financial plan of the Agency for Energy for 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly agrees on the balance of the work programme and the financial plan of the Agency for Energy for 2017 of 20. 4. 2017. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u129	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman. Regardless of the political obstacles in this country, in the National Assembly, we are likely to understand that there is an affront to energy in this country. And for this reason, of course, we need a strong, appropriate, functioning energy agency. The Agency, you know, has received additional thermal heating duties because we know that there are unacceptable excessive differences between different heat consumers between different places in Slovenia. The Agency has a generation gap problem, just like other buzzed cases. After all, it is one of the rare institutions of this country, which is not in Ljubljana, but is in my beloved Maribor. In short, it's about 5 new jobs. Who on the right would say, "It's about families!" It is the people who will remain in Maribor and, after all, it is one very important regulator, who I hope that with this human resources reinforcement he will do his work even more responsibly for the benefit of all those who are defined in Article 3 of the Constitution and beyond. And that is why, once for a change, because it is not a matter of some budgetary arithmetic to the detriment of citizens and citizens, we will support this proposal in the United Left. We'll vote in favour. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u130	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 63 votes in favour, one against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 10th item of the agenda – first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patient Rights. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Patient Rights is appropriate for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. We will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that this law is one of the laws that should regulate patients' rights, but it is more necessary to have a health care and health insurance law, because in our health care, we need to regulate that we have too little staff, that we do not know where the money will come from or how we will finance our health system in the future, that there are other things that are more important than, say, the financial situation in hospitals and so on. The Minister said in her explanation today that we need this law in order to regulate the records. If we need a law to regulate waiting periods, it is sad that today, with a law like this, we regulate it. We believe that records or waiting lists would be arranged differently. At the same time, the Minister said today that waiting periods are a problem to be solved by this law, that waiting periods generate the primary sector, as we know today, that there are no waiting periods in the primary sector or that there are the most pressing waiting periods on the secondary, i.e. with specialists. At the same time, this law also contains matters such as the 30-minute waiting period in the infirmary, so that it is not yet clear how these matters can be handled by doctors if we know that there is a shortage of doctors. With this set of personnel, we will certainly not reach it in health institutions. At the same time, the Minister emphasises that the patients' rights and waiting periods are being saved and waiting time with eTravel, which we know today is not working according to the system that the Minister is talking about, which means that everything is completely electronic, that is, practice shows that this is not the case. Once again, if this law governs only what the minister said, that is, the regulation of waiting lists, the cleansing of waiting lists or those lists, then this law is irrelevant. However, this law, once again, lays down certain rights for patients who we do not know how they can be addressed with the human resources that we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u132	Is there any other explanation? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 19. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Health Committee as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Labour Inspection Act, short procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Inspection Act is not suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the United Left Group, Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Act on Inspection of Work prepared by the Socialists is suitable for further consideration. It protects the two most exposed categories of workers, these are covert working relationships for forced espas and protects employees in currently illegal agencies. We have the most notorious example of these illegal agencies in Luka Koper, the so-called port service providers. The government or its coalition have decided to reject this proposal and have therefore not made any substantial arguments. The only thing in the middle is political prestige and political dealings with employers. The government has promised employers that it will reject our proposal for a labour inspection law and a proposal to increase the minimum wage, and in return, it has agreed to facilitate the dismissal of the so-called contractual termination of the employment relationship. In return, the Government offers its own law on labour inspection, which is too thorough and leaves employees in illegal agencies. And here it is simply not possible to avoid the impression that the Government or for it a coalition of Social Democrats, Desus and SMC protects exploitative IPSs and their masters in Luka Koper and in other similar cases and the direct force of the unemployed social margin in seeking their survival opportunities in illegal exploiters of the Marof trade type. We proposed this Labour Inspection Act in Levica for the first time in March of the previous year, and it was discussed in the National Assembly in May and was rejected. The coalition or government then promised to prepare its proposal by autumn, and this proposal was nothing, so this year, a year later, we decided to try again. It is clear that this proposal will again be rejected. Under our pressure, however, the Government has prepared a proposal, which, as it is said, is not nearly as thorough as it should be, and protects many employers more than it does, unfortunately. The Socialists will conclude that the Labour Inspection Act is not suitable for further consideration. This law is suitable for further consideration. What's more, it's urgent.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u134	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Sometimes you can take a lot, but you can't listen to everything some people say. In the country, thank God, we have a government, the government is to make laws and the government is to make good laws. And the government is going to make a better marriage than you did. Now, as far as Luke and protection are concerned, what you, Kordish, were saying. Let's remember a few months ago, gentlemen and ladies, citizens and citizens, when you used flags in front of Luka Koper, how you can't replace supervisors, how you can't change administrations, the same administration that allows what you're saying that workers are exploited there. Your members of the United Left have prepared this, I'll say, mutiny. It's all good and good! All good and good, but let's have the same vats for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u136	Before I proceed procedurally, however, I must find that it was too personal, given that it was an explanation for the vote of the Group. An explanation of the Group of Members cannot be given to an individual, but the opinion of another Group of Members may go beyond that. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] It won't help, but we'll have to listen. Procedural. Order! Procedurally Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, what colleague Han just afforded was no explanation for the vote. It was an attempt to discredit us on the left and specifically me personally. We have always opposed the privatisation of Luke Koper in the United Left, which does not mean that we have explicitly supported any specific administration. Finally, we struck together cranes and workers in port service providers as early as August 2011. We fought back then, and we were not even close to Parliament. We were down there every day with them. But you've been in Parliament for how long, you've practically been in every government and on your watch by a public firm, a state firm doing shit like that. What did you do about it? Nothing. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u138	There's nothing procedural here either. Stop this debate on the left, because otherwise we will most likely take one break to calm down, so that we can calm down and move on. Is there any other procedure? It's not. In the personal name of the explanation. I understand that. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group? It's not. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll explain my voice. At the start, I must say that I do not agree with one of the speakers in front of me that it is the government that is preparing good laws, because then we come quickly to what people sometimes say is that in the opposition we are just sneaking around in pubic areas. I probably didn't fall from exhaustion this year together; I fell from serious work. What is the key problem of this society and the country? The key problem for this society and the country is the wrong development based on the wrong political economy. The key question is the criticism of the political economy, if you want to be in the human language, the end of people being viewed as being sliced like sausage. A nice metaphor for this is that you go past the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where the entrance is the same as hitting you over the head. This is the metaphor of this: let's give those who create work a beating on the head. This story of semi-marriage relations isn't from yesterday. As a young researcher in Cyprus, I was researched in 1994-1998, a story that stretches for 20 years. In 20 years, quite a few governments have exchanged, a few people, the old lions, the middle and the right, and all the pragmatists have supported this and such an economy, this and such a political economy, which is what the new left is fighting against. As a result of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because you have also acted counter-constitutionally, the article on the economic initiative also proposes quality and urgently needed legislation, which should have been adopted in 1997. Of course, I will vote against the fact that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u140	The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you. I too will vote against it because the law is necessary for further consideration. The IPS problem in Cyprus, which is far from unique, has existed for 20 years and these IPSs are nothing more than illegal agencies for the intervention of work. They are already selling services on the list – providers of port services. But what is this service? This service is the transfer of cargo to the ship and from the ship. So they don't sell anything but hands that translate it. So they sell naked jobs, and that's how they have to be treated. Last week, we were on the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, where we had, I think, almost three hours of debate on this issue. We have found not only what I now point out to be illegal agencies for the intervention of work; we have found that these are at half-mafia organisations where half of the money paid by Luka Koper is lost each year. They pay 22 million euros, last year even 25, and half the money is lost. These are not my speculations, these are the findings of Furs. For the last time, all parties agreed that this should be cut off and that this problem should be resolved. Now we are proposing a law that will give the inspection a tool in hand so that the work can be done; and now I do not understand why you suddenly have a different opinion. The government proposal, which is to a large extent a copy of ours, is missing, for unknown reasons, from this very part of dealing with the problem of illegal labour agencies such as the IPS. While you're correcting some of the right things in espionage, you're overlooking this part. I therefore insist that we continue to discuss our proposal. I will vote against this decision you have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u142	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 13. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities by Short Procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, all voting unanimously in favour. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on War Cemeteries following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. First, let me say that the Left will vote against this monument, because anything that is wrong can be listed there. It's a pure failure from an ideological point of view. Let me explain. Equalizes all the victims. A single point is just death. This could also be a monument to the SS and the Gestapo. By no means can a monument stand for those who fought on the side of Nazism and partisans. The second point is also because of the architectural and spatial aspect. The third point is a complete breakdown because it is an abuse of poet Oton Župančič, as his granddaughter also said on the committee. But we smoothly overrun everything and all the fifth to some poets who eventually wrote the first partisan song, and it was clearly written for liberators. I think Oton the Mayor is turning in his grave. I think that this monument is a monument to the loss of the compass of our ruling policy, because all the so-called left-wing governments and all the politicians have mainly forged history, and this will be a monument to historical revisionism. By no means, as some say, that we want to live together and in peace, we cannot live on the basis of lies. When we pour pure wine, we admit that they were different sides, of course, at peace today, but it is necessary to make it clear who fought for the nation and its identity and who did. Because we know that the invader wanted to destroy the Slovenians and wipe them out of the face of map and history. The leftists definitely do not agree to historical revisionism, we do not agree to the fabrication of history, and we think that we would live much more in peace if we made it clear immediately after independence what we stand for and what our path will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u144	We're voting. There were 75 Members and Members present and 54 votes in favour, 6 against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Period of the day, it's on the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the protocol on the alignment with the nanos to the framework agreement on the pool. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u145	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we have two modern protocols to the Framework Agreement on the Sava Basin, the depositary of which is the Republic of Slovenia. Both protocols are highly developmental. The first one I will talk about is the Protocol on the Treatment of Application to the Sava Basin Framework Agreement. The Framework Agreement on the Sava Basin was signed by the Sava States on 3 December 2002 in Kranjska Gora and entered into force on 29 December 2004. For the implementation of this Agreement, the Parties have concluded several protocols, including the Protocol on the Management of Application signed in July 2015 in Brcko. The Protocol provides that the Parties shall establish a common application plan in the Sava basin covering all application-related issues. The Protocol has so far been ratified by Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of the Protocol on the management of application will establish a basis for coordinated cross-border cooperation in the monitoring of data on quantity and application management with a view to sustainable development and the use of the international river basin of the Sava. The cross-border exchange of data on the released quantities of applications and quantities removed due to the reduction of flood risk, the provision of navigation or other measures is of paramount importance for the planning of cross-border coordinated measures for the sustainable use of the river and the establishment of a good water environment. Slovenia will allow it to enter into force in an international context by ratifying it, and the Government therefore supports the adoption of the Protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u146	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother's work, which reported in writing to the assembly. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled; therefore, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present and 75 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Point of the agenda, it's on the proposal for a bill on the ratification of the protocol on the prevention of water intensification makes for a voyage to a framework agreement on a pool. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u147	The Protocol on the Prevention of Pollution of Water by Navigation to the Sava Basin Framework Agreement also falls under the framework agreement and was also signed with the Protocol already presented in 2015. The Protocol is based on recommendations on technical requirements applicable to inland waterway vessels and are harmonised at European level. Upon entry into force of the Protocol, new vessels shall be equipped with appropriate waste storage solutions with the aim of collecting them and handing them over to take-over facilities. The remaining vessels shall be subject to an eight-year transitional period. The protocol sets out an important environmental principle – the polluter pays. The Parties to the Protocol will take the necessary measures to effectively prevent, control and reduce pollution caused by vessels and establish a network of take-over installations on board and coordinate all activities in this regard. The adoption of the Protocol on the Prevention of Pollution from Water by Navigation is of exceptional development importance, as it establishes modern standards to reduce the negative impact of inland navigation on the aquatic environment, in particular for larger vessels. In Slovenia, following an appropriate prior regulation of the waterway with appropriate multi-purpose arrangements between Brežica and Zagreb, Sava could become a floating international river, in line with the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, which is in preparation. The Protocol defines regimes for the prevention of pollution from ships on the international waterway, which ends in Slovenia or starts in Brežica. In doing so, it is important to highlight the exceptional development potential and development opportunity that Slovenia offers a modern European process for implementing macro-regional strategies. Because of its geographical location, three European macro-regional strategies — Danube, Adriatic-Ionian and Alpine — are intertwined in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Connecting multi-purpose arrangements to green infrastructure in river corridors is at the heart of these strategies. Green intermodal hubs – railway, river, bicycle – in river and coastal corridors can significantly improve accessibility and thus provide sustainable tourism and new jobs in the local environment. The adoption of this Protocol therefore opens up additional possibilities for such development and the Government supports its ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u148	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the National Assembly. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We move on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the Director of the Public Agency for Competition Protection of the Republic of Slovenia The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Štravs Podlogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u149	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Pursuant to Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Prevention of Restriction of Competition and Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Decision establishing the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, the Director of the Agency shall appoint the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister responsible for competition protection proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a candidate to be selected after a public tender. Accordingly, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology is in the Official Journal of the European Union. 18/2016 of 4 March 2016 published a public tender for the Director of the Agency. Within the time limit, 6 applications were received and 4 candidates were included in the selection procedure, which in due time submitted full applications showing that they met the formal conditions for the Director of the Agency. In the selection procedure, the Competition Commission tested the professional competence of candidates to perform the tasks of the Director of AVK by examining the documentation submitted by the candidates in the selection procedure and by interviewing candidates on the basis of the criteria adopted by the Competition Commission. In drawing up the criteria, the Competition Commission has taken due account of professional qualifications standards with selection criteria and methods of checking the skills of officials in public administration positions. Accordingly, in the selection process, the Commission assessed two sets of standards and criteria, namely experience and managerial skills and expertise. The candidate was assessed as appropriate in an individual element if it was assessed as appropriate in most exposed verification segments of this element. On the basis of a report by the expert commission on the implementation of the selection procedure, the Minister for Economic Development and Technology invited four suitable candidates to interview. On the basis of a report by the Competition Commission appointed by the Minister for Economic Development and Technology prior to the proceedings and on the basis of interviews with the candidates, the Minister for Economic Development and Technology concluded that he was the most suitable candidate for the post of Director of the Agency, Andrej Matvoz. Andrej Matvoz is a university graduate lawyer and has many years of working experience in the field of legal advice in economic disputes, a careful review of companies, advice to companies regarding business, contract making, the performance of heavier administrative tasks, the writing of decisions and decisions. He gained work experience in the private and public sectors. However, as from 31 December 2015, he shall act as Acting Director of the Agency. The two unelected candidates filed an action and a motion for a provisional order against the choice decision by the Minister for Economic Development and Technology. Both motions for a provisional order were rejected by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, while the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia has not yet decided on the actions. Following the procedure carried out and taking into account that, in accordance with Article 32 of the Law on Administrative Disputes, the action does not impede the enforcement of the administrative act against which it is submitted, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly the appointment of Andrej Matvoz as Director of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition for a period of five years, from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2022. On the basis of this explanation, we propose that you appoint Andre Matvoz as Director of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u150	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you so much for the word. Dear President, honourable Members, Members and representatives of the Government! The term-of-law commission shall be held at the 34th session of the 18th session. 5. 2017 and below 6. 6. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal to appoint the Director of the Public Agency for Competition Protection of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly 26. 4. tabled by the Government. The Law on the Prevention of Competition Restriction in Article 5(1) provides that the Republic of Slovenia shall establish a Public Agency for the Protection of Competition under this Act and that the Government shall exercise its constitutional rights and obligations. Article 12a provides that the bodies of the Agency shall be the Council and the Director and, in accordance with Article 12b, paragraph 2, the Director shall also be the President of the Council. On the basis of Article 12, paragraph 1, the Director shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, and the candidate shall be transferred to the Government by the Minister responsible for the protection of competition, who shall elect him after the public tender. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 12th, the Director shall be appointed for a period of five years and may be reappointed no later than once after the re-enlisted public tender. The conditions for the Director shall be laid down in Article 12, paragraph 3. In accordance with Article 12, paragraph 7, the National Assembly shall vote on the proposed candidate for Director within 30 days of the submission of the proposal. The proposed candidate has been appointed if he is voted on by the majority of the Members present. Since the government's proposal has already been presented, I will not repeat it here. However, let me say that in the debate on the Mandate-Election Commission, the question was raised as to whether the proposal to appoint a candidate was linked to his former employment in one of the municipalities in which the government runs an important project. In response to the question raised, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mr Aleš Cantarutti, denied the candidates' links to the project. Following a discussion, the Commission adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 12th of the Law on the Prevention of Restriction of Competition; Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Decision establishing the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be adopted by means of a decision establishing from 1. Seven. 2017 is appointed Director of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, Andrej Matvoz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u152	There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision with effect from 1. Seven. Mr Andrej Matvoz is hereby appointed Director of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition for a period of five years. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. To be considered Proposal for the appointment of a member of the Board of Experts of the Insurance Supervisory Agency The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u153	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Insurance Supervisory Agency was established by the Insurance Act and became operational in 2000. In accordance with that law, the Agency shall have an expert board composed of five members or members, one of whom is President or President of the Professional Council and of which at least two are not employed by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The members of the expert board of the Agency and the Director shall be appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The members of the expert board of the Agency shall be appointed for six years and may be reappointed. The Insurance Act specifies the conditions for a member of the Agency's professional board, namely that only a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia may be appointed; who has completed at least the second degree study programme according to the law governing higher education, or at least has equivalent education in the relevant field; who is an expert in insurance, finance and economic law and has not been convicted of a criminal offence. The law further provides that the function or position of a member of the Agency’s professional board is not compatible with certain functions or holdings of insurance shares. On 23 May this year, a member of the Agency's professional board, Dr. Miran Jus, was called on by the Ministry on 17 March this year to announce a public invitation to interested candidates to run for office as a member of the Section Council. At the invitation of the public, 6 candidates who met the conditions and were included in the selection procedure were registered. On the basis of the reports collected and the interviews held with the candidates, the Ministry of Government proposed that the National Assembly propose that Florian Lorger be appointed to the expert board of the Agency for Insurance Supervisory for a term of six years. Mr Lorger fulfils all the conditions laid down and has extensive experience in the field of insurance, which he has acquired in various roles in the insurance sector. We believe that, with his knowledge and experience in the insurance field, he will be able to contribute to the Agency's active and professional work. We propose that the National Assembly support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u154	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The term-of-law committee shall be held at the 36th session of the 15th session. 6. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for the appointment of a member of the expert board of the Agency for Insurance Supervisory, which was addressed to the National Assembly of 18. 5. 2017 submitted by the Government. The Insurance Act in Article 494, paragraph 1, provides that the Agency’s professional board shall consist of 5 members or members, one of whom shall be President or President of the Professional Council and of which at least two are not employed by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The first paragraph of Article 497 provides that the members of the expert board of the Agency and the Director of the Agency shall be appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government; the second paragraph of the same Article shall be that the members of the expert board of the Agency and the Director of the Agency are appointed for 6 years and may be reappointed. The conditions for a member of the Sectional Council shall be laid down in Article 498. Since the Minister has already presented the Government's proposal, I will not repeat it here. I should just like to point out that, in the debate at the Commission on Elections, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group highlighted the need for a broader debate, drew attention to the poor practices in the area of personnel, which the Commission recalls in its annual report on the prevention of corruption; and expressed its concerns, in particular, about the independence and potential for conflict of interest of the candidate. The representative of the Government rejected the concerns expressed below. Following the discussion, the Commission adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to adopt, pursuant to Article 497(1) of the Insurance Act and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision appointing Florian Lorger as a member of the professional board of the Insurance Supervisory Agency for a period of six years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u156	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I can continue where the President of the Electoral Commission has finished. His last sentence was that the government's representative rejected our concerns. She refused in the same words as she began to represent the candidate. In order to present this important supervisory body, as represented by the Insurance Supervisory Agency, in particular the Council; the Council also makes sense to the Senate. The Chamber shall vote and the Council shall represent five members together with the President of the Agency. At the meeting, the government representative said that six candidates had applied. All of them had these conditions, which you have already discussed before me, i.e. the condition of the second level of Bologna, the condition of impunity and the condition which is quite general that they should be an insurance expert. Candidate Florian Lorger was presented as someone who met the most conditions; but we did not have this argument. I don't know what the other five candidates had. All we know about Mr. Florian Lorger is that he was a failed candidate on the list of the Modern Centre Party in the local elections. In their opinion and according to some mode of operation carried out by the Modern Centre Party and the coalition in this mandate, without any conversation with the opposition, as if the opposition did not exist, there was a vote – 9 votes in favour and 5 against. What the President said and what the draft KPK 2016 report says and what the KPK notes, let me read a few quotes, usually here, I do not read in the National Assembly, but I will take a few thoughts from the KPK on the issue of illegal influences in the recruitment procedures. Among other things, the KPC states on page 31 of this report that the specificity of that area for 2016 is an increasingly public exercise of such influences, with concrete expectations and requirements being expressed without reservation mainly by policy. It is also attached to the Commission’s finding that the need to appoint and resolve members of the supervisory or management bodies in public sector entities or companies with a capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia is often linked to the requirements for specific actions in specific decision-making matters, which are also attached to all publicly-known cases in 2016. This is what the KPK says, concludes this comprehensive report on the negative human resources selection you are carrying out with regard to personnel. He continues with words: "The same applies to the field of influence on the procedures of appointment of other officials (officers, officials in position or other public servants, managers and also members of public sector bodies) on specific jobs. In the Commission’s view, professional competence must be one of the main criteria for selection in the recruitment procedures; in addition to meeting the other conditions for employment; it should not be merely political adequacy or prudence and propriety of the candidate. The selection and appointment of candidates on the basis of political relevance, according to the Commission, destroys the principle of equality and the purpose of legally regulated procedures to ensure an objective assessment of candidates; however, customerism, corruption risks and non-transparent decision-making in human resources matters are strengthened." In the Slovenian Democratic Party, part of this report, which has not yet been adopted, because we are continuing to meet on the Commission's terms of reference, we have nothing to add. As a result of this and also because this meeting did not provide an explanation by the Government, what shortcomings the other 5 candidates for the professional board of the insurance agency had; since only the formal conditions had been granted to Mr Lorger, it was not substantiated as to what these conditions had been. Of course, we also had particular doubts after we got the information that he acted as one of the regional directors of the Maribor insurance company, now the Sava Insurance Office; and there may also be conflicts of interest here. It is an important agency that has control over insurance companies and also legal entities linked to the insurance company. It also controls the operation of the first pension pillar, which you might be interested in, respected colleagues from Desus. The proposed candidate, Mr Florian Lorger, will not be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u158	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Florian Lorger as a member of the professional board of the Agency for Insurance Supervision for a period of six years. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present and 49 votes in favour and 15 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d. d. The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance of Magi. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! You have before you the proposal to appoint Andrei Bertonclja and Igor Kržan as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. The vote on their appointment to the National Assembly shall be the last act in the statutory procedure under which the Commission of Experts was first appointed, composed of four eminent experts in corporate governance, management of human resources and the functioning of supervisory councils. The expert committee carried out the procedure and among the 15 candidates who met all the legal conditions among the 24 applicants, obtained a number of quality candidates. With the top ten, she held personal discussions on the basis of which she formulated a proposal from five candidates and also obtained official confirmation that they were not charged with a legal charge, a conviction and that they did not have records in the criminal record. After careful consideration, the Government has designated the most suitable and experienced candidate Andrei Bertonclj and Igor Kržan. Both have extensive work experience in managing companies that are intertwined with academic activity and international experience. The expertise in financial, corporate and liability and asset management also complements the expertise of the current members of the SDH Supervisory Board and the Supervisory Board as a whole. The quality of the candidates was also recognised by the Government, which confirmed the proposal and forwarded it to the National Assembly for decision. The mandate-election commission also confirmed both candidates. In view of the support given so far by the candidates to whom they have been given, I believe that they are both among the candidates who have been declared most professionally fit for a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding; and I propose that they be confirmed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u160	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the Commission, Dr Mitja Horvat, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Minister, Honourable Representative of the Government and President of the Council of Justice! Dear Members and Members! The term-of-law committee shall be held at the 36th session of the 15th session. 6. 2017 considered the proposal for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., by the National Assembly 1. 6. 2017 submitted by the Government. The first paragraph of Article 39 of the Slovenian State Holding Act provides, inter alia, that the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., shall consist of 5 members. The first paragraph of Article 40 further provides that all members of the SDH Supervisory Board shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government and that the National Assembly shall give its consent to the Government's entire proposal and shall not be able to amend it. In accordance with the second paragraph of the same Article, a member of the SDH Supervisory Board shall be elected for a period of 5 years, with the possibility of a one-time re-election. Since the Minister of Finance has already presented the Government's proposal, I will not repeat it here. Let me say that, at the meeting of the Commission on Elections, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliament drew attention to poor recruitment practices, to which the Commission also notes in its annual report to prevent corruption, highlighted the need for better candidates, unburdened by possible irregularities, and asked the Government's representatives about the criteria for the selection procedure of the proposed candidates of the five best rated candidates, which were presented by the selection commission. The representative of the Government replied to that question by arguing that the selection process was carried out in accordance with the law. The delegation of the Group of Non-Aligned Members expressed the conviction that both candidates had experience in the field of asset management and therefore had no comments; and pointed out the long-standing functioning of the SDH Supervisory Board in its incomplete composition. Member of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats in particular highlighted the quality of one of the proposed candidates, while members of the coalition parliamentary groups assessed both candidates as good because of their professional qualities and long-term experience. Following the debate, the Commission adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 40(1) of the Law on Slovenian State Holding and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d. shall be Dr Andrej Bertoncelj and Igor Kržan for a period of five years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u162	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franz Jurša, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u163	Your Honor! In the Desus Group, we unanimously confirmed the decision to appoint Dr. Andrei Bertonclja and Igor Kržan as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding. We are confident that, with their completion, the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding will be composed of members who complement each other in terms of expertise and competence. We note that the procedure for the selection of candidates was carried out in accordance with the law. After discussions with the candidates, we are convinced that they both have a good degree of experience and expertise in asset management. At the same time, we are convinced that it is high time for the oversight council to cease its operation in its imperfect composition. Article 39 of the Slovenian State Holding Act provides that the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board shall consist of 5 members. In this way, the national asset manager will finally, after all the peripeties, regain the competent supervisory authority, which will faithfully supervise the implementation and operation of the management acts. Therefore, in the Desus Group we will unanimously support the decision by which Dr. Andrej Bertoncelj and Igor Kržan are appointed as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding for a period of 5 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u164	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Matjaž Han, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u165	President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The SDH Supervisory Board has been in operation for several months. This is certainly a particular problem, in particular in the fact that SDH members bear a high level of responsibility in the management of all citizens and citizens' assets of approximately EUR 12 billion. On the basis of all the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Government carried out preliminary procedures and proposed to the National Assembly that Mr. Andrej Bertonclj and Mr Igor Kržan be a member of the SDH Supervisory Board. We had a substantive discussion with both candidates in the Group of Social Democrats, where they presented their vision of action in the SDH supervisory council if they received sufficient support today. I can say that it is a qualified candidate who has a lot of knowledge and a wealth of business experience in the areas of finance, corporate governance, rehabilitation and restructuring of companies and asset management. It is not to be overlooked that candidates also have valuable international experience in these areas. The candidates presented some interesting initiatives to improve the effectiveness of SDH. Both candidates are convinced that the country can also be a good asset owner and do not share the mantra on the general necessity of selling state shares in companies as some miraculous measure that will solve certain economic problems. However, the candidates pointed out the need for preliminary prudential reviews of some companies, which would later lead to the most optimal business decisions. In their view, certain company restructurings are also inevitable, and SDH should have as many staff as possible with different specific expertise for this purpose. Both pointed out that better digitalisation of SDH's business is needed, as the time delay in updating data is now too great. The idea of one of the candidates for a so-called special crisis fund for rapid intervention by SDH was also worth considering for us. We will support both candidates in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u166	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, on her behalf by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you, President. Good evening, everyone! The Slovenian State Holding was established under the so-called commitments to the European Union made by the Government of Janez Janša and Alenka Bratušek. At the time of the financial crisis, the European Union requested the establishment of a holding company to accelerate privatisation and to reduce the impact of citizens on the management of state-owned enterprises. And since the impact of citizens is declining, the impact of client policy and various management circles is, of course, increasing. The supervisors of the Slovenian state holding company do not answer to anyone, but they well know what government and coalition expect of them. At the beginning of this month, for example, the SDH Supervisory Board stopped the NLB submission because coalition parties estimated that they could not afford it in the pre-election year. However, it did not stop the sale of the NKBM, although the price for the NKBM share was still significantly lower and the damage was so much higher. There are only two ways to avoid harmful policies for citizens who are not of such a nature and for the country. The first is to ensure that in the SDH supervisory council we provide representatives of workers working in state-owned enterprises, as we have already proposed twice in Levica last year. We have proposed an extension of the Supervisory Board to 10 members so that 5 representatives will be employed or appointed by trade unions. This proposal has received no support because ruling parties do not want anyone to look under their fingertips in the management of state silver. Another way to end this harmful policy is to start sending people to the supervisory board who will answer to citizens, not to directors of private businesses. In March, the government proposed to Director Iscratel, today proposing former Director Trim, who is now the director and owner of Aluplus. The main problem is not that supervisors come from companies that themselves deal with state-owned companies, which is a school case of conflict of interest. The main problem is that political choices about the privatisation and management of NLB, Telekom or Luke Koper are left to people who perform the work of supervisor as an afternoon activity. I will not say a hobby because membership in the supervisory councils is well paid; it is certainly not their main activity. For the most part, Levica cannot support any member of the SDH Supervisory Board until it represents workers who are employed in state-owned enterprises. It is naive to expect that without the real impact of workers or labour organisations in SDH it will operate in the public interest. However, we expect candidates to propose a replacement of the current SDH administration immediately after the election. The SDH administration runs the human resources policy in all state-owned enterprises. It is not only that these companies have been valued at EUR 13 billion, but also that they include strategic companies such as Slovenian Railways, Luka Koper, Telekom and electricity companies. Today it is up to two members of the administration who have no experience in running large companies. Ms. Glavina led the Slovenian branch of the Celovský deloja with about 10 employees prior to the function. The main feature of Mrs Nada Drobne Popovic was clearly the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party in climbing the hierarchy of Slovenian railways. When these people, say in an interview with the biggest newspaper in the country, say that the Krka strategy needs to be overturned, all the alarms in this country should be triggered. The last thing we need is for our expertise to cause damage to well-being companies. If the proposed candidate truly excels in high professionalism and business excellence, they will, as it is said, require the replacement of an incompetent administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u168	The Member Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Franz Breznik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I have said before that I continue to follow the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I will now proceed with my colleagues from the United Left. First of all, let me remind you that unfortunately, the Slovenian Democratic Party is the last cleaning company to be in any state company and has a sign on Facebook that a fan of the Slovenian Democratic Party is usually already unemployed in these companies. We do not interfere with the human resources policy of the current government, nor do we have any dialogue with the government. I can say it in public. The other thing is, I agree with you. We have warned of this in a number of cases. So let's start with SDH, which you were talking about – 13 billion state assets. It is strategic companies, some having a decisive impact on the future of this country, on the well-being of the people. Among them, we find Lidia Glavin. We know about her that she's a graduate economist, as the president of the board, as you said, she ran a branch in Celovac that had 10 employees. If I look at her résumé, or yours, many of your résumés, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a large number of candidates for such a function, according to proposals such as yours. If we know that Mr Damjan Belic – who is the President of the Supervisory Council – is the one who will somehow be the leader of these two candidates – is closely linked to the Bar Association Fatur, which has a contract with the DUTB again, this is the patchwork you were talking about. And in the second phase, Mr Damjan Belic did not mention in his CV that he is the owner or co-owner of VK Holding, which in 2009 had an affair of international dimensions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that's why a man like that wouldn't have anything to look for as president of the SDH Supervisory Board. At the time when the Slovenian Democratic Party was on the government when we adopted both laws, namely, the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and the so-called SDH Act, we invited the opposition to the talks at that time, and they coordinated the law. Comrade Šircelj and colleague Pogačnik were the driving force behind the development of the negotiations, in the middle of the holiday were these negotiations, and we knew that the opposition must be involved. That these guards must operate in so-called brakes and balances, and that there is no such government after 2014. It is a so-called bulldozer who throws in front of himself and sets up people who are incompetent and have no experience, especially for supervisors in such a function of incompetent people. We can call Mr Bertonclja a doctor of science in the field of management, but of course it is someone who is a theorist who was a failed candidate for the director of the UKC, who has failed and is now trying to give it at least as a member of the SDH Supervisory Board. With regard to Mr Kržana, you will most often find on Google that he has become involved with his family in an affair concerning a health service concession. It's about selling the concession, someone who got the concession left and sold the concession to his wife, who's a doctor. Very interesting examples of reselling concessions. These are the things where alarms should ring; where we may have to ask ourselves whether we are underestimating the state property that some so praise, or whether we want to act conscientiously as the best owners during this period, whatever the strategy may be, with this property. And also those who care, who look at things that carry out on a formal level, that also their supervisors, who are behind, are people who have experience, who also have experience in managing large systems. And not the first and not the second candidate, they don't have that kind of experience. You said well, there are psychological forms of someone who led five people, ten people, someone who led a hundred people, and the other is when you run a company with thousands of people, you have a system checkup and you realize that. That is why we need in the Slovenian State Holding, in my opinion, in the administration and for the supervisors of the people who have these competences. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also sought them abroad during our term of office. Remember, with the arrival of the government of Mira Cerar, the complete Swedish team had to leave Slovenia in some disgrace, even though they were top candidates, they had international competences behind them. Dear colleagues and colleagues, what can I say, there was no agreement on your part. I think I've made enough arguments as to why we think that we can handle state property better, that we should control it by more competent people. Therefore, both candidates, Mr Bertoncl and Mr Kržan, will not be confirmed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u170	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Andrej Bertoncelj and Mr. Igor Kržan as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding, d.d., for a period of five years. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 13. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the Board of the Energy Agency The proposal was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure mag. I'm putting pressure on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u171	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Energy Act prescribed a special procedure for the appointment of members of the Board of the Energy Agency. Half of the members were appointed within the first term for three years and the second half of the six members for six years. The members of the Council who were appointed for three years are 12. 6. 2017 ended the term of office. In December 2016, the Ministry informed the Government and the National Assembly that it was initiating a procedure for the selection of candidates for three new members of the Agency's Council with a term of office of six years. A public call was made for seven candidates. The Government has drawn up a list of candidates from which the National Assembly appoints three candidates as members of the Council for the next six years. The Energy Act stipulates that the Council of the Agency must be composed in relation to the education of candidates from experts from various fields – electrical, mechanical, economic and legal. Three members of the world who have been in office for three years are Ivana Nedizavec Korada, who is an economist, Dr. Tomaž Žagar, who is a nuclear physicist, and Mrs. Mojca Veljkovic, who is a lawyer. The proposed list of candidates for members of the Council for the next 6 years, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly, is presented by: Dr. Max Babuder with electrotechnical education, Sandi Šterpin with machine education, Andrej Knupljez with electrotechnical education, mag. Zorica Zajc Kvas with legal education and Mrs Ana Grabnar with legal education. The government has proposed three candidates from the candidate list to the National Assembly, namely Mr Max Babudr, Mr Sandi Šterpin and Mr Andrej Knupež. So three candidates who meet the legal conditions for appointment are appointed by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u172	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that appoints Dr. Max Babuder, Mr Andrej Knupež and Mr Sandi Šterpin as members of the Board of the Energy Agency for 6 years. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposals for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly for the election of the Magi. Barbara Mazovec Khela, mag. Polone Kukovec and Mrs Barbara Toddi are in judicial office at the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. To further explain the proposals, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Justice, Dr Mark Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u173	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On this occasion, the District Court of Ljubljana submitted its opinion on leaving, redistributing a number of judges, and the Supreme Court has therefore called for three free seats of district judges at the District Court in Ljubljana. A total of 60 candidates and candidates applied for this call. I would also like to point out what I have already stressed on the Mandate-Election Commission that Slovenia is constantly reducing the number of judges to 100,000. On the basis of an analysis by the European Commission, called Justice Scoreboard, we are now not in the first place from the rear; we are in the third, behind Croatia and Luxembourg. In the Council of Justice, I would like to stress this further, we are very attentive to every seat of justice that is signed. We have carried out a three-phase procedure, which is in accordance with the law. The first stage is the verification of the documentation whether the applicants fulfil all the conditions required. During the second phase, we invited candidates to the interview, selected them according to their average grade in college, on the legal exam, and also according to their other experiences. We've invited 22 candidates and candidates to the interview. We had an interview through various professional questions and then we chose the best three candidates, the candidate mags. Barbara Mazovec Kšela to the seat of the District Court, otherwise envisaged for the Civil Enforcement Department. The candidate stood out in particular as regards the knowledge of civil law, as well as enforcement law. She also has almost 10 years of experience, she has recommended quite a few supreme judges. She also answered the best questions in this area; we then assessed her as the most suitable candidate for this court seat and proposed her to the National Assembly for election to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. She's a Magi candidate. Polona Kukovec also applied to the district court in the District Court in Ljubljana, or to the penal department. He has several years of experience, we are approaching all these candidates for about 10 years of experience, which is significantly more than it has been in the past. She is also an expert associate in the Supreme Court, she has positive opinions from the Supreme Judges, including studies abroad and so on. We have also foreseen it as one of the best candidates for the District Court and we also propose it for election to the District Court in Ljubljana. Finally, the candidate Barbara Toddi, who also applied for the post of District Court in the criminal department. The lady has more than 10 years of experience, and she is also the head of professional colleagues at the District Court in Ljubljana. As part of her experience, she has already done a number of work and will be able to join the workforce immediately. All the positive opinions, too. She responded excellently, as far as the criminal area is concerned, so we have also chosen her and are proposing her to the National Assembly for election to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u174	The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects mag to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. Barbara Mazovec Khela. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, and none in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects mag to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. Polona Kukovec. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present and 52 votes against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision which elects Mrs Barbara Toddi to serve in the judicial capacity of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, and none in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the first item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers of 20. 6. 2017 is published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question by Dr Mate T. Vatovec on the illegal exploitation of workers in Luka Koper. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mrs Ludmila Novak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mrs Ludmila Novak's question on the suspension of sales of NLB, d.d. The explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats is given by Mrs Ljudmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u175	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I propose a debate on the topic of sales or non-sales of the New Ljubljana Bank. I asked the President of the Government why the government decided not to sell the New Ljubljana Bank despite the commitments made to the European Commission in 2013. Above all, I do not think it is responsible for this government to reduce the value of the New Ljubljana Bank or the sale price of this bank by means of its sales method. I wonder what citizens have to do if we have to cover someone else's loans. Each of the citizens of Slovenia is expected to cover a bank hole worth more than EUR 2 000. Some citizens are already covering their bank loans, and here each of the citizens will have to cover more than €2,000 for a loan they have not hired. The manner of sales or non-sales, as proposed by the government, has already in itself reduced the price of the bank for sale. And that's why I asked the Prime Minister who would take responsibility for this. Who will take responsibility if we have already invested 2.7 billion taxpayers' money in the bank, then 2.3 billion have been transferred bad claims to the DUDB and are now expected to give around 1 million euros to prepare the sale. In the event of successful sales, however, about EUR 7 million. So the money we're gonna throw out the window. I estimate that Nova Ljubljanska Banka is just an ATM for some where they don't raise their money; but they raised our money. On the other hand, the washing machine, the money launderer, some of which also benefited and put in bad light not only the state bank, the state-owned bank, but even Slovenia. I therefore propose that you support the proposal to renegotiate this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u176	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr Joseph Horvat has an explanation of his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a discussion at the meeting of the National Sales Assembly, the non-sales of the New Ljubljana Bank is now needed more than ever and requires in fact some additional arguments; and with numbers. As has already been said, about EUR 2.2 billion we have given so-called dry money for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. A few more, some 2.3 billion were transferred to the Company for Bank Claims Management. Together, so over the thumb, 4 billion and a half. Respectable taxpayers, 4 billion and a half. And now the presidents of coalition parties come to the camera and tell us the sad faces, and the taxpayers don't sell the bank because the price is too low. That sounds to someone who doesn't know it very well, and some taxpayers even bought it and they said, of course, it's cheap, but we don't give it! Ladies and gentlemen, it was a roadshow and on these roadshows investors offered 0.75 – 0.8 times the book value. What does that mean in numbers? In numbers, this means 562 million and a half for the New Ljubljana Bank. This is eight times less than we have already thrown into the New Ljubljana Bank. And if the gentlemen I mentioned today were to read today's Finances, we'd see what the bank will be like tomorrow, what a business model it will be. Slovenian knowledge also creates new business models for banks of the future. But the future has already begun today. Today the bank is in good condition. Why? Because we've recapitalized it, and it's the only one that can have a good price today. Tomorrow this price will be lower, and that's why this government is responsible for taking back a few hundred million. That's why my vote is for the verdict.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u178	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franco Laj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to Mr Franco Laj's question on constitutional rights to a healthy living environment in areas where large biogas plants operate and negative effects on the environment are displayed by spreading the smell. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Tomaž Lisca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maje Makovec Brenčič to Mr Tomaž Lisca's question on sports infrastructure. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 47. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mr Andrej Širclja will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matthew Vraničar Erman on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the The explanation for the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is mag. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that a debate should be held on the answer of the Minister of Finance; and no matter what it shows, there will also be a referendum on this issue. Why? Since it is simply not a clear financial structure; even more so, it is very difficult to define it, it is probably difficult for the Minister to define it, because the technical design of this project is not clear. We build a second track, but we don't know whether this government knows very well whether it's a single railway or a two-track railway. Moreover, in fact, the President of the Government ordered the competent minister to turn the project into a double. And now we do not know whether this price, which applies to the single railway, will also be considered two-tier. I don't think so. The Minister of Finance doesn't know that either. And because of this, once again, irrespective of the referendum, I think that this railway needs to be built, that it needs to be modernised, but not at any cost. Not at the price now envisaged, not at the cost of having the entire project stand for what the law itself stipulates, almost 2 billion; but for some acceptable price. And that the technical implementation will be such that it will be easily adapted to the cargo which will travel along this railway from Kopra to Divaca and then throughout Slovenia and to the neighbouring country. That is why I think we should make this effort, even regardless of the outcome of the referendum, regardless of what is actually going to happen, so that we can simply get some optimal project. For this project, which is now envisaged, is not optimal, is diversified, as it is, and is not complete. We don't even know – a single second track, a two-tier second track; or there will be a cycling track along the Black Kal. I have nothing against it, but it must also be put in public finances and look at the consequences for the whole country, citizens and citizens. I therefore propose that this be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u180	We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 48. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Luka Mesec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Dark to the question of Mr Mesca's question on the harmful agreement between the Government and the employers of 7 June 2017. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, for the last time today. I asked Dr Anjo Kopač Dark, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities yesterday about the agreement signed between her, i.e. the Minister, the leaders of coalition parties, trade unions and employers on 7 June this year. Three key issues are set out in this Agreement. The first is that the signatories at the head of the coalition reject the proposal of the United Left, by which the minimum wage in Slovenia would actually become a minimum wage; not that we have five, six, seven or even more wage classes below it. Secondly, they reject our proposal for a law on labour inspection, which, as I have explained in the previous debate I have had, would put up with illegal labour agencies such as port service providers, notorious IPSs in Cyprus. And thirdly, they agreed that employers will be able to get a chance after the new one if the coalition now really supports this, a contractual break in the employment relationship, which could mean that some employers will use this to forgive older people over 55, disabled people who are now very difficult to forgive. That's why I asked the secretary three questions. Firstly, why does the coalition agree that, with the economic growth that we have, we still allow wages in Slovenia not to start with 613 euros, which has been prescribed by law; but with 400 euros or even less? I myself have seen payrolls starting with 240 euros; and then only with supplements does a man come to the statutory 613. I was wondering why we let that happen. I didn't get an answer. Secondly, I was interested in why we allow practices such as the IPSs in Cyprus, where last year half the money that went into cash to the bosses was lost; they are employed by the minimum wagers or even less. Thirdly, I wondered how it would prevent the abuse of the new Institute from occurring in the sense that it could now forgive disabled people over 55 years of age and so on. I have not received any answers, so I propose that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on all three points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u182	Mr Jan Škoberne has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. The coalition government will reach an agreement between trade unions and employers after demanding talks and coordination on how to proceed. And we are calling for a debate on why this has happened. There's only one conclusion under the line to suggest they fight back. Something like that can't be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u184	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group? No, no, no. Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will support this requirement for a general discussion for all the reasons stated by Comrade Moon. And for one other reason. After the Constitution, Members shall act autonomously. On their behalf, it is very difficult for any summit to sign documents as to how they will vote in this or they will sit. And that's exactly what happened. The political summit has signed with the employers of the pact to reject the proposal of the United Left on the Labour Inspection Act and on the raising of the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u186	Mr Matjaž Han has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u187	I believe that people who haven't done anything like this in their lives don't know and can't understand some things. But when employers and unions ask these ugly policies to co-sign, to stick to the agreement, that's the only real thing. You have to give your hand in life and your signature. If we have a United Left, we don't need unions in this country anymore, because the United Left will fix everything. We no longer need any government, because the parties will be able to invest whatever they want and want, depending on when the elections will be. Ladies and gentlemen, dear comrades and comrades, in this country we will have to rule in such a way that we respect certain arrangements. We are all a thousand euro minimum pension, a thousand euros. We are for two thousand minimum wages and we are all responsible for the fact that economists pay no taxes. All of us. And there would be no more, but if we asked outside people, this national assembly and these Members, because they are not doing anything anyway. Today someone asked me, I only say so much when I was sitting outside on a coffee bar, "What are you doing here?" I said, "There's less damage than there." And sometimes it's really better; especially friends on the left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u188	I'm asking you to sign up. The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you. I would remind you that what we proposed by redefining the minimum wage is similar to what we did a year and a half ago, if I am not mistaken. I think it was the fall of 2015. What did we do then? The unions have come to this house with a proposal that overtime, work on holidays, night work, alternating work and so on should no longer be included in the allowances that are below the minimum wage. These things have to be added to the minimum wage, not to the minimum wage. A man can't have a basic salary of 500 euros, and then inadvertently come to 613, but since 613, overtime can continue to count. This was the case that was brought into this house, which was pre-departed in this house and which we voted all Members of this National Assembly. There was no vote against, although there was no employer support at the time. And they even resigned from the social agreement for this. We have now proposed that in this country we have an exceptional economic growth two years after that, such as that the matter is to be resolved to the end, to exclude from the minimum wage those allowances that are still included. So exactly as we suggested at the time. And there is absolutely no reason not to do so; especially not what you say you have agreed to, in your words, a dictatorship of employers. Let me just remind the Social Democrats what they said about this a while ago, and I quote: "At the request of employers, it is an extremely distasteful blackmail and an unprecedented attempt at casual trade. This is completely unacceptable to us.” I will vote in favour of this debate; you, too, if you are consistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u190	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll tell you a story from the field. Yesterday, in Maribor, I was met by pensioners, and one of them said, "Ask him when the pensions are going to go up." I said, look, I will honestly tell you that with this and such government, with this and such coalition, with these and such perspectives on development and Slovenia, pensions will go further down. Han decided to run to the United Left. Legally, legitimately. The great pre-election half-year will turn away, the essential difference between such our statements is not only that the Duck talks about money, but that he also thinks macro-economically. But in this national council, you don't think. I'm thinking about what pensions these people are going to have that they're going to have. That's obviously the difference between you and me. I'm thinking about where we're gonna fill all four cash registers. And that's the difference between me and you. And these are some things, and I'm not gonna fuck around anymore. After three years, I've had enough of this stuff. If it's okay for you to have a 300, 400-euro pension base, then you should go through the Penal Code to the closed department of the Age, not the open. To the closed ward of the Age! Why don't you, for fuck's sake, read this constitution already. Shame on you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u192	Not a word at all. This could be done in a polite manner, and yet everyone would feel better at human level. Okay. There are no more applications. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boris Koprivnik, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the bilinguality of administrative services for Slovenian citizens who do not live in national mixed areas. Mr Jožef Horvat has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of this proposal, and I was surprised when the Minister said honestly that I was the first to point out this. What's this all about? We all know, colleagues and colleagues, that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates in Article 11 that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian, and in the areas of the municipalities in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live is also Italian and Hungarian. The second paragraph of Article 62 of the Administrative Procedure Act provides that in the area of municipalities where, in addition to the Slovenian language, the official language of the Authority is also the Italian and Hungarian language, the administrative procedure shall be carried out in the Slovenian language and the language of the national community, provided that the party submits a request in that language on the basis of which the procedure is initiated, or if the party so requests at any time during the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the constituency, where they live in co-existence, I stress, in conjunction with the Hungarian National Community and with the majority of the Slovenian people, that I am also obliged to warn the government in this case of irregularities, which release some frustrations that fill the books of comments and complaints, I have some of these copies even in my office, and which fill the office of the Member where people complain. What's this all about? When a citizen comes from a municipality that is not located in a national mixed area, the administrative unit, the specific administrative unit Lendava, which is not the only one, is also the administrative unit Izola, Koper and Piran, and there he asks for administrative confirmation of the signature, we all understand that. Administrative certificate of signature, receives bilingual certificate – in Slovenian and Hungarian. I'm specifically talking about the Lendava Management Unit. The minister says the main, important, relevant seat of the administrative unit is. That's not true. That's not true. If a member of the Italian national community comes to Lendava after the signature has been certified, he shall receive a Slovenian-Hungarian certificate. Is that right? It's not right. And the minister says it's been that way for 15 years. Unfortunately, it is not aware that the new application entered into force with January. I will now wait for the decision of this decision. I am obliged to ensure that the majority people continue to live together with the Hungarian national community and, of course, Italian and vice versa. That's why I need to draw attention to these tensions that occur in people. If the Minister doesn't act soon, I'll look for him again and then I'll go all the way to the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u194	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 48. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Anton Persak to the Violet Tomić question on the situation of self-employed people in culture. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u195	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Now sparrows are squawking that the socio-economic situation of self-employed people in culture is extremely harsh and difficult. This is also a large group of passersby, and one third of these people live below the poverty line. When a new self-employed regulation was being issued, it triggered a great deal of disapproval and excitement by the interested and professional public. We therefore called on the Committee on Culture in December, where we instructed the Ministry to forward solutions, including an assessment of the financial impact of any proposed solutions, to the competent Committee on Culture by 1 March 2017 at the latest. We are already late in June, we are more than four months behind this decision, and I have asked Minister Toneto Persak a question in this regard. And I have not received adequate answers; nor has my question of what is the indicative timetable for further steps to be taken to amend the Regulation on Self-Employed Persons in Culture; nor will there ever be a national programme for culture; nor can we expect any changes to the umbrella law of ZUJIK and so on in this mandate. Before World War II, which we repeatedly forget, the social revolution, artists lived below the threshold of poverty. It was normal for them to die in the sugar plant, to die for tuberculosis. We know that from Prešern, Cankar, Kosovela, Murna died very young. The hungry poet is supposed to sing better. Fortunately, we did not experience this after the social revolution, because the worker in culture had the right to work and the work was of value. And all the workers were protected. I remember those days, too. After 1991, after the invasion of capitalism, culture and culture, although these are people who are making the recognition of Slovenia, who give us our identity, are again forgetting, saving themselves on culturers. And it's getting less and less and less important. Since culturers are important for the formation of a cultural landscape and it is also about the survival of many and most cultural creators, I ask you to support my proposal to hold a debate on this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u196	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 14 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matthew Vraničnik Erman and Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič on Mrs Anje Bah Žibert's question on the issue of lenders in Swiss francs. First of all, there is an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. The United Left has an explanation on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, chairman. I hope that in this country I am not the only person who has a memory of a goldfish; and others in the United Left are not. Why? Today we are probably almost burned by e-mails from citizens and citizens who have asked us to support this proposal for a debate that we in the United Left will support. I admit that I spoke to citizens and citizens today most of the day by e-mail. Some of them were bentils, but most of them agreed with me. Why? Banking relationships are relationships that are supposed to be based on trust. These so-called toxic credits have failed this trust. They are also based on the fact that governments in Jasbinsk have not adopted adequate housing policies. Similarly, people have been let down by so - called savings for young families, some of whom we have recently talked about. These stories took place between 2004 and 2008, when the government of Ivan Janez Janša, who together with Banka Slovenije, did not play an appropriate role. These loans went crazy the last time John John Janša was in power, and they did not react. When we proposed urgent, urgent measures two years ago in the United Left, you were all against or abstaining. And then you cynically said that these people speculated, up and down. Which, of course, is not true. Now that the elections are coming – that's 16,000 votes – you're going to solve this. These and such policies must go to a historical dump, and then we will be able to save something in this country. And instead of some debate, which will probably be five hours of beating, because Janša knows that this coalition will not support it now. For these 16,000 people, we need some solutions that we gave two years ago. If we're allergic to anything in the United Left and if I'm personally allergic to anything since I've known myself, it's a double personality. And we do not just need so-called new policies, we need a policy where there will be no gap between babbling and action. We need a policy that will no longer be two-faced. In short, we don't need resets within the same duality, we need a different and different operating system. We will support this, but we are against this kind of duality and a cheap attempt to buy voting votes from the people to whom you actually cooked it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u198	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Violeta Tomić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I got a lot of heat today, too, when I got so much mail in my mailbox that it stuck me up. But I've made up my mind, and I've written almost everyone off. However, I have written down what I am about to say to you: In the United Left, we have already made recommendations to the government at the end of 2014 to deal with the problem of these borrowers. And as Franjo told me before, we listened to how these people speculated. Because these people came for credit and, of course, trusted the employees in the bank windows to direct them most correctly. And I kept reading how we had to support Anjo Bah Gibert. Of course we'll support her, because in the United Left, if we're anything, we're consistent. And if we defend something, we always defend the welfare of all citizens; and we will support any proposal that goes towards the welfare of citizens. However, the duality that the colleague spoke of earlier is something that we cannot tolerate. For when we suggested to the government that it be done, no one supported us. And today, of course, we support that. And despite the fact that we have already made proposals with the Association of Franks, which has turned to us today, that is to say since 2014, three years would have made it easier for these people to breathe and not to breathe. But we had to wait for the election to take place for six months, and now we're going to compete over who's going to promise them more. Let us show goodwill once and for all, for this is indeed a great injustice that has occurred to these borrowers. Not everyone knows about math and banking, they blindly trust people who advise them. And that was abuse against these people. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u200	There's obviously still an interest in the debate, so I'm opening the door for you to sign up. No one checked in. Earlier, it was suggested that at least two more would have wanted to, but I didn't ask them. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anja Kopač Dark to the question of the delegation of Mr Miha Kordiš concerning the delay in raising social assistance. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Lightmotiv of this requirement for a general debate could also be complicated around the issue of duality. €92 below the minimum cost of living – that is the amount of financial social assistance in this country. And people deliberately retain in poverty, although the minimum cost of living was set at EUR 385 8 years ago. This level has risen to this day. Why does it matter? Because it is the basis for the calculation of monetary social assistance and also of a protective allowance. The Government, or on its behalf Minister Anja Kopač Mrak, committed itself in the 2015 Social Agreement to recalculate the minimum cost of living in 2016. That didn't happen. Today we are in 2017, and as far as the Ministry of Labour is concerned, this calculation is still ongoing. But watch the catch! This calculation was commissioned by the Ministry of Labour at the IER and put it out of hand a month ago in April, two months ago. Why, then, do we not yet have the calculation of the new cost of living so that we can recalculate the level of cash social assistance and the security allowance and finally raise these two social transfers to at least a lesser level of human beings worth more? The answer lies in the fact that this is not a priority for the Ministry. If we look at all the moves, as well as any informal information that is available, the Ministry of Labour deliberately sabotages and stalls by calculating the minimum cost of living so that they can continue to save on the poor. Minister Anja Kopač Mrak did not answer my question and the initiative firmly. She didn't even try so hard to find any serious excuses if they just didn't have enough time to recalculate these minimum cost of living and raise cash social assistance. I would like to remind you, however, that in the last eight years, the Taist Anja Kopač Dark has been in the ministry either as a minister or as a secretary for six years. And two months, since they've been available at the Ministry of Labour with this research, that they've just stepped in, it's more than enough time to make a recalculation and cash social assistance rises. There is no reason to wait for the fall; there is no reason to ask if this will actually happen in the autumn.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u202	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Franz Breznik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matthew Vraničnik Erman and Minister of Justice Mag. Goran Klemenčič asked Mr Franz Breznik about the inheritance of income. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 45. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik, to Violet Tomić's question on the negotiations on the abolition of J's salary group abnormalities. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As you know, today before the government there was a demonstration of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions. The street was full, and there we could see teachers, assistant educators, midwives, nurses, paramedics, technical staff, sweatshirts; in short, all those whom we view as self-sustaining and who work well, but who cannot live off their jobs. Salary anomalies in the public sector are unacceptable, as there are 16 payment classes below the minimum wage. I was wondering when we would finally delete these first 16 payment classes and the first payment class would start at minimum wage; and not at the shameful 440 euros of monthly income. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, who can survive with such a personal income and what kind of pension can these people, who we always need, have with us. Minister Koprivnikar was quite offended when I asked him about it, but we've known for 10 years that anomalies are present and we don't save them. And we're not saving them in an adequate way right now. Seventy million have been determined and will now be deployed. At least the unions agree unanimously that the worst of them must first be taken care of. And you know, I'm always gonna get involved in finding 80 million for those 10% of the richest. For the poorest, however, there is always a major problem when their socio-economic situation needs to be resolved. And we who grew up in comic books and Alan Ford know what superhic logic means. He took it from the poor and gave it to the rich. I think this government's been practicing this super-hickey logic too many times. And people who struggle with such a problem through the moon should hear how much anger builds up in them and how much shame they feel, for those who work honestly should be able to survive themselves, their children, and their family. We're a social state, aren't we?Oh, my God! Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u204	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u205	I'll be very brief, gentlemen, so I won't eat up too much of your time. A minimum wage not at least 20 per cent higher than the calculated rate of poverty and anything below is a crime and is unconstitutional. Pika, basta, over. And as long as we don't divert this company to this track, I don't have anything to talk to you about these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u206	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 17 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mr Miha Kordiš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on Mr Zdravek's response to Miha Kordiška's question on the deregulation of oil derivatives prices. Mr Kordiš has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, chairman. I asked Minister Pozvalska about the deregulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives and how the process will continue as the current regulation ends at the end of this month. What's up? The regulation of the prices of petroleum derivatives, as was the case with us recently, limited the margins of oil traders up. They were still able to compete with each other by lowering prices; however, they could not cheer them excessively. Then we had a deregulation of the fuel oil and continued with the complete deregulation of prices along the highway. As a result of this, we have convened several committee meetings, asked parliamentary questions, sent initiatives; and since there was a total of beans against the wall, we have, after all, passed a law to re-regulation the field of oil derivatives and limit the highest margins of oil traders. And that didn't help either. Therefore, at this meeting we asked Minister Restovalsk what his arguments and his analyses were for the implementation of this deregulation. As we know that the government's own analyses, which Minister Restoration and the Government have decided to step down fully when taking steps to deregulation, say that lifting the limits of the highest margins inevitably leads to an increase in the prices of petrol or all fuel; thereby harming all citizens and citizens, harming the state budget because of the loss of income and also harming the rest of the economy. Minister Restoration had no reply to these objections before deregulation began. Nor did he serve at this current meeting, we have only heard more neoliberal flossules about the free market, how cool the free market is, how cool it is, even though it has nothing to do with reality; especially with us, because we do not have the market and we cannot have it after all. We have this market with oil derivatives oligopolen. We've got OMV, we've got Petrol, and then there's some change left for someone else. And the only thing that can lead to the process of deregulation of oil derivatives prices is the growing profits of oil corporations and oil traders and the minus for all others involved in this process. However, Minister Restorationšek now says that the government will propose a complete deregulation of all oil derivatives prices. And when that happens, all these prices will go up in the sky. And that's why we need a debate in this National Assembly, and also because Minister Restoration is the greatest Superhik. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-20-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u208	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 47. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that this decision is not adopted either. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
