ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Violeta Tomić from 12 a.m. to 16 p.m., Ludmila Novak from 15 p.m. to 15 p.m., Suzanne Leup Šimenko, Janja Slug, Vlasta Wait until 14 p.m., Ksenija Korenjak Kramar until 15 p.m., Urška Ban from 16.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Simona Kustec Lipicer from 17 p.m., Dušan Radič to 15 p.m., Branislav Rajić to 15 p.m., Ivan Prelog from 15 p.m., Bojan Kraj to 15 p.m., Aleksander Kavč, Matjaž Han to 15 p.m.m.m. to 15 h.m.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 30. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Surveillance after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic's representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control established this March beneficiaries of compensation for the difficult regular use of land and the procedure for determining and enforcing that refund. This is the land required for the exercise of State border control and the prevention of unauthorised crossing of the state border, where landowners and landowners must allow the establishment, installation, use, maintenance and storage of technical and other means, provided that the exercise of control cannot be ensured by other organisational measures. The law also laid down in its transitional provisions in Article 24 a deadline for beneficiaries to apply for compensation for the calendar year 2015 and 2016. Thus, those beneficiaries, landowners or a person using land on the basis of another real right entered in the Land Book or on the basis of a lease or lease of a contract may claim compensation for those two calendar years no later than 30 June 2017. Despite the fact that the beneficiaries had the last amendment of the law available for 4 months, many deadlines for submitting the claim for compensation have been delayed. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that this is not their subjective responsibility, as they were not properly and timely informed about the procedure and deadline. The Government also delayed the adoption of a sub-legislative act, i.e. the Regulation on the methodology for determining the amount of compensation for the difficult regular use of land for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of State border control. This Decision was adopted on 6 April 2017 and entered into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. 2017. The application for a refund was published only on the website of the Ministry of the Interior and on the eGovernment portal. However, administrative units have also received it, which have been working for a considerable period of time on the training of accounting applications and on the updating of accounting data. It took quite some time to figure out how to calculate the actual amount of the individual compensation. Some local communities, however, have received only a few days before the expiry of the deadline in order to be able to notify the beneficiaries themselves through local media. A large number of citizens who are entitled under the law to compensation for the difficult use of their land have thus been deprived of the possibility of actually getting the compensation, despite the fact that all the legal conditions for which they are entitled to such compensation are met and that it is an infringement of the constitutional right of ownership. In view of the fact that temporary technical barriers were set at around 160 kilometres on approximately 2 000 parcels owned by around 2 000 owners, we find that only 8 % of the beneficiaries requested compensation by the expiry of the deadline. Therefore, if the law is to achieve its objective of actually receiving this compensation, the deadline for managing the refund for 2015 and 2016 should be extended until 31 March 2018. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the receipt of the refund should not depend on the ability to monitor the rules, but rather on the fact that the damage to these beneficiaries was actually caused and was seized into their property for reasons other than their conduct. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also aware of this, so our proposal to extend the deadline is not opposed. In view of the above, we propose that our amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control be supported. In this way, everyone, including those who have missed the submission of applications for compensation, will have the opportunity to do so by 31 March next year. However, the applications submitted after the expiry of the deadline will also be counted as timely, that is to say 30. 6. 2017, the amendments adopted today have not yet been decided on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich. Here you go, mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Representatives of the executive branch, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 30th meeting, on 25 June. Ten. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. In the course of the course of business, the amendment to the draft law was tabled by the New Slovenia Group at Article 1, followed by Article 1.a. The representative of the proposer of the Act of Complementary Explanation did not submit the articles of the draft law. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, said that the Government supported the proposal for a law, stressing that all beneficiaries of compensation were informed in a timely and appropriate manner in the means of public information, via websites and also in the direct contact of police officers and police officers on the ground with those who were entitled to it. It stated that all beneficiaries had sufficient time to submit claims for compensation, namely more than four months. However, the Government supports the proposal for a law and an amendment to extend this period until 31 March 2018, in particular due to good and constructive cooperation with all land owners eligible for such compensation. In the presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments of their service were fully taken into account by the amendments tabled. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation supported the proposal of the law, especially on the fact that it was up to 30. 6. 2017 only 8 % of beneficiaries applied for compensation. In the debate, the representative of the proposer briefly presented the proposed amendment and stressed that they followed the position of the Legislative and Legal Services. The Committee then adopted the amendment to Article 1 and to Article 1a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Andre Špenga, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia took note of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the State Border, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the MEP mag. Matthew Tonin. The applicant considers that all beneficiaries could not apply for compensation in due time for setting temporary technical barriers for 2015 and 2016 and therefore proposes to re-set the deadline by which this can be done. The Law on State border control also provides, inter alia, for beneficiaries of compensation and for the procedure for fixing compensation for the difficult use of land resulting from the exercise of State border control tasks and the prevention of unauthorised crossing of the State border itself. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia explains that police officers can use land and water at the state border irrespective of ownership, if necessary for the successful execution of tasks, under the Law on State Border Control and the tasks prescribed by the acquis of the European Union. Landowners and landowners and waterowners must allow free access and movement for the smooth exercise of State border control tasks, i.e. for land use, and therefore the use of land is hampered and the landowners and the persons using the land are entitled to compensation on the basis of another real right entered into the land book and on the basis of a lease or lease contract. The law specifically provides that those beneficiaries on whose land they are established, installed, used, maintained or also stored protective fences and other technical means are entitled to compensation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia further explains that the deadline for the application of refunds for 2015 and 2016 is set in the transitional provisions, i.e. Article 24 of the State Border Control Act, and has been extended by an amendment to the legislative procedure. The assessment was made that, in view of the expected date of adoption of the law and given the fact that the first application of the refund was justified, the extension of the deadline for lodging the claim for compensation was justified. The beneficiaries could therefore apply for compensation for the calendar year 2015, for the months November and December 2015 and for the year 2016 to 30. 6. 2017 and/or made available for 4 months and a half. An optional form of application or application has been drawn up for the purpose of applying the refund. The application for the enforcement of compensation for the difficult regular use of land for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of State border control is published on the websites of the Ministry of the Interior and on the eGovernment portal and has also been transmitted by additional explanations to administrative units. Information on the enforcement of the law or the possibility of filing applications has also been published on the websites of the Ministry of the Interior and also in the media. During the period of adoption of the State Border Control Act, temporary technical barriers were set at approximately 160 kilometres per approximately 20,000 parcels owned by 2 000 owners. On the basis of the data provided by the administrative units, the deadline was up to 30. 6. 2017, only 161 applications received or applications submitted by around 8 % of the beneficiaries. With the proposed amendment to the law and in view of the draft budget submitted by the Ministry of the Interior, in 2018, additional resources amounting to €270,000 would have to be provided for the purpose of the lack of spending right. On the basis of this and the fact that the time limit for filing applications is laid down in a law which can be amended or extended only by law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the extension of the time limit and the proposal for a law amending the Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Border Control submitted by the Member of Mag. Matthew Tonin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! We are reminded of these shortcomings and the initiative to adopt this law by Martin Mikolič, Mayor of Rogatec Municipality, which is a border municipality with the Republic of Croatia. No law can be its purpose, especially when it comes to such a sensitive issue as trespassing on property rights. The proposal for a new Law on State Border Control, proposed in Novi Slovenije, addresses the issue of inequality before the law. It removes the unequal situation of those landowners and other persons using land who have missed the deadline for exercising the right to compensation due to the difficult regular use of land. This is a compensation for land use in 2015 and 2016, on which, for reasons of general security and in order to prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border, the State has set up a network of fences, making it impossible for landowners to use them as they would have if these technical means were not available. The ownership right is a constitutionally protected category and is for each holder of the world. Any intervention must be justified, in which case the injured shall be entitled to compensation. This right must be guaranteed to all, and it is therefore unacceptable that those who are — and not by their own fault — should be deprived of compensation because they have missed the deadline for the submission of the application. Since this is not their fault or responsibility, the extension of the deadline by the end of March next year will eliminate this inequality. Despite the Government’s claim that all owners were informed early enough because they had 4 months to file applications, this is not entirely true. The law was adopted in February this year and a long time ago, before the administrative units prepared an application to settle applications. The application for compensation was also published only on the website of the Ministry of the Interior and on the eGovernment portal. Taking into account the fact that it is up to date, it is up to 30. 6. 2017, applications submitted by only 8 % of the beneficiaries, then it is necessary to extend the deadline and ensure that the compensation is available to all those who are legally entitled to it. Since the government in the budget has provided sufficient resources for everyone to receive compensation, it is our duty to enable them to do so. In the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, of course, we will support the law because we have also proposed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! The novelty of the law under consideration is, of course, a result of the construction of a cutting wire at the border with Croatia. The government started to install cutting wire and then the panel fences at the border began to build in November 2015. Although she has maintained that it is a temporary measure, she has not yet removed the wires and panels. On the contrary, all the two-year period since the start of the so-called refugee crisis has extended the kilometre of the fence, despite the numerous calls of the inhabitants of the border areas to remove the wire and fences. More! Last week, the residents of the Municipality of Kostel informed us that after two years the army had even locked all the doors on the panel fences. The government does not even want to hear calls for removal of the fence or calls for disclosure of the amount of funds it has used to set up the fence. Since the first metre of cutting wire, it has been accompanied by suspicion of corruption and business dealings. Despite repeated requests for disclosure, the Government still keeps its business confidential today. Currently, 220 kilometres of cutting wire or panel fences are to be placed at the border. To date, the country is expected to spend 8.34 million euros and an additional 92 000 euros for a basket of meter belts along the fence. The total costs associated with the border fence are estimated to be around €13 million. Two complaints were filed for suspicious transactions. The additional €4.5 million was joint military and police patrols along the border. In short, about 18 million euros total. We still don't know the exact numbers today because the government won't issue the official information. However, it is an official information on compensation of landowners. A total of €280,000 was foreseen for the adoption of the law, and the Secretary of State has just spoken about it. The government has carried out the procedure for payment of the compensation with so much delicacy that only 8% of the beneficiaries have been able to implement it together. First, she needed a proposal to adopt an appropriate act under the law, and then there were problems with the notification and accessibility of the forms. Nevertheless, it is not the Government which would propose an extension of this period. This was done by the opposition instead, and we will not oppose the solution in Levica. Let me finish. The left position is clear – the cutting wire and the panel fence must be removed. It was unnecessary already in 2015 and today it is clear that it serves only profitable business of persons, customers, if you want to, associated with this business. The fences do not want residents, the fence threatens those around it, endangers animals as well as the fence has a negative impact on relations with the neighbouring country, which are not exactly shiny. We therefore call on the government to remove the cutting wire and fence again. The means, which I hope with the non-transparent and suspicious, even things that corrupt business brings into friendly pockets, and should be given to the people who live at the border, so those who have been destroyed by agricultural land and opportunities for tourism, which is the sole source of subsistence, through their border-closing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and everyone else here at the National Assembly! In January this year, we passed a law on State border control in the National Assembly. The novelty is part of the protection measures for mass migration and illegal transitions. It also provides, inter alia, compensation for landowners on which a protection fence, wire, barrier is placed, whatever we call it, by which we interfere with the constitutional right of ownership. As it has not been envisaged so far to provide the owners with adequate compensation, the amendment of the law has established eligibility for compensation for such use of land and also regulates the procedure for the application of compensation. Slovenia is surrounded by temporary obstacles, or fences, on about 20,000 parcels, with about 2,000 owners. At the time of the adoption of the new law in January this year, we wanted compensation to be paid to as many victims as possible and as soon as possible, so we also extended the deadline for enforcement to 4 months in the National Assembly. Apparently, this deadline was too short, because we missed him again. The beneficiaries could apply for compensation for 2015 and 2016 up to 19. 6. 2017. However, for the calendar year 2017, it will be possible to request it by 31 March of the following year and 2018. In the SMC Group, on the basis of the above data, we agree with NSI's proposal that an additional deadline should be allowed for landowners to apply for compensation for the use of their land. Last but not least, sufficient financial resources are provided for both this year and the following year in the State budget. For this purpose, €280,000 was foreseen in 2017 and €240,000 in 2018. Since the deadline for submission of applications lays down the limited amendment to the law of January this year, and since that period expired in June, it is only possible to extend it by means of a new law. Only in this way will the beneficiaries still have this opportunity and the role to play in order to make payments at all. In addition, the amendment of the law should also provide for those owners who have submitted the application, but it is too late and has not yet been decided on. The law establishes a legal presumption that their role was timely. Others who have already been rejected as a result of the delay by the competent authorities will be able to resubmit the application. On the basis of the above arguments, we will support the draft law in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Before us, the proposal complemented the Law on State border control, which provides for a new deadline within which beneficiaries will be able to apply for compensation for land use difficulties. The difficult use of land relates to the land required for the control of the state border and the prevention of unauthorised crossing of the state border, with landowners allow the use of land for the installation, installation, use, maintenance, storage of technical and other assets. At the beginning of this year, we adopted a new Law on State Border Control, which allowed and allowed this possibility. The deadline was 30 June 2017, until which landowners could apply for compensation. It has been 4 months since the entry into force of the law, but the question of the implementation of these options has been raised by the end of the deadline, i.e. up to 30. 6. In 2017, only 8 % of the beneficiaries submitted an application for compensation. This certainly concerns the main problem of why so little — whether they were sufficiently informed or whether bureaucratic obstacles were the main reason that the beneficiaries of these applications either did not surrender them or would have given them up too late. An extension of the deadline for lodging a claim for compensation for the difficult use of land in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members will not now be opposed. However, we will certainly monitor implementation in the future more precisely, given that this 8% has already been mentioned several times today, and there is certainly a need for the National Assembly to see what that major obstacle is, that citizens have failed to apply for this compensation within the deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Benedict Kopmajer will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present to you the position on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control. In November 2015, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the light of the control of the refugee or migrant wave, prepared additional measures to control migration flows, including measures to protect the Schengen border. One of the measures was the installation of a wire fence, which was later replaced by a panel fence, which raised some dust between landowners and the local border population. There have been many criticisms of farmers who have been prevented from processing their fields normally due to fences, since in some cases they were not able to access their land and the land was increasingly destroyed, resulting in much less crop production. Therefore, Members and Members of the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Law on State Border Control in April this year, establishing the eligibility for compensation of landowners or land-users and an orderly procedure for the application of compensation. A certain period within which beneficiaries could exercise the right to compensation under the law expired on 30 June this year. The fact is, the beneficiaries had 4 months to submit the request, but many beneficiaries did not take advantage of these options. According to the Government’s assurances, all beneficiaries of compensation were informed in a timely and appropriate manner, both through public information means and via websites, as well as through direct contacts between police officers and police officers on the ground with those eligible for compensation. Nevertheless, in the Desus Group, we believe that this deadline must be extended and that everything should be done to ensure the country's good cooperation with the owners of these properties, which eventually lie in the areas right next to the border, which were most affected by the refugee wave. Therefore, in the Desus Group we agree with the proposal of New Slovenia to extend the deadline to 31. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In view of the unanimous support of the proposal for a law on the home working body, we believe that it is so reasonable and correct, and the proposal has also been supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As we say, Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! Let me just say in the introduction that in the position of the Social Democrats' Group, we will support the proposal for a bill drafted by our fellow Members. The novelty extends the deadline for applying for compensation for the difficult use of land at the border with neighbouring Croatia. The applicant submits that a large part of the beneficiaries have been delayed by the submission of applications. By amending the law adopted in January of this year, we have established that beneficiaries of refunds for 2015 and 2016 may require this until 30 June 2017. The motion for a novelty assessed that the beneficiaries were not properly and in time informed of this possibility, and the Social Democrats could also nominate this assessment. The government opinion on the proposal for the amendment of the law, which we are considering today, gives the following information: that temporary obstacles were placed about 160 kilometres long on about 20,000 parcels owned by about 2 000 owners and that administrative units were by the first deadline, that is up to 30. 6. 2017, only 161 applications received in resolution. It is also worth noting that at the Ministry of the Interior they are up to 17. Ten. 2017 received 54 legislative decisions totalling €15 000, and only 35 decisions amounting to some over €4 000 were paid. Given the dynamics of the resolution of 8 % of beneficiaries, it shows that these procedures will continue for a long time, especially now that the investment deadline has been extended until 31 March 2018. If this government proposal has been adopted and the owners have been granted the right to compensation, the country should also be more responsive in these procedures and help people to obtain these compensations and not attract them in 2019, 2020 and so on. Respected colleagues and colleagues, temporary technical barriers at the border still stand and still make it difficult for people to work, make it difficult to develop tourism activities, make it difficult to access riverbanks, fishing and so on. Would it not be time to remove these temporary technical obstacles? Especially a blade wire. For the people had foretold that they would begin to remove it themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 40th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I'm breaking up with this 30th item of the agenda. We're moving to 31. Period of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law amending the Act on Business Dimensions after a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of six Members and Members with a first-signed magi. Matthew Tonin. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! At its 49th meeting, on 26 October, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act, submitted by the first-signed Mate Tonin, a parliamentary group, at its 49th meeting on 26 October. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its 15th meeting. 9. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified manner. The members of the Committee participated, on their behalf, in the representatives of the candidates, the colleague Dimic, the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Council responsible for Social Affairs, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made comments to the proposal for a regulation on Article 1. The Committee also received and considered the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, presented at the meeting of the Committee by its colleague Horvat. He said that the State Council, or the competent commission, supported the bill. No amendments were tabled by qualified candidates within the time limit of business, but within the time limit, the New Slovenia Group proposed a proposal for an amendment to Article 1. In its opening remarks, the colleague Dimic stressed that the proposal for a novel was intended to pursue two objectives: to relieve the financial burden on the economy and to enable craftsmen, i.e. self-employed, to enjoy an equal position in the enjoyment of health insurance rights. The Government, in a written opinion presented by State Secretary Pogacar on the Committee, does not support the proposed amendment. The debate followed, which was held in particular or, if you wish, exclusively to the provision of Article 1 of the draft law, which reduces the period of compensation for the disease or injury to be paid to the employer. The debaters agreed that the area should be regulated and the problem of regulation is of a systemic nature, but not at the expense of the deduction of funds from the health treasury. Reducing the employer's obligations can also be understood as reducing safety and health at work, as some discussers have stressed. The fact is that the status of self-employed persons will have to be regulated, but not in this law. It was further stressed that social dialogue was very important and needed and that all stakeholders not included in the decision-making process should be included in such changes. With regard to the proposed change in the reduction of the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in cases where the worker is unable to work because of his illness or injury not related to his or her work, it was made clear that this is a systemic issue, since the arrangement is linked to the regulation of remuneration under the law governing health care and health insurance. Therefore, and as a result, the amendment to this law is not supported. The discussion below proposed that the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons decide on a proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Following a discussion of 9 votes in favour and 3 votes against, the Committee decided that the proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act was not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. In order to present my position on the proposal of the parent working body, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! It appears today is a day for the laws of New Slovenia. We got off to a good start. I hope that's how we'll proceed. As you can see, Nova Slovenija mainly brings practical solutions, which mean some improvements. This time, after those fences, we now have the Labour Relations Act on the agenda, which brings important news. Let me start by saying what this key change is. In New Slovenia, we propose that employers – now covering hospitals up to 30 days – should cover 15 days of hospital according to the proposal of New Slovenia. Let me make it very clear that for workers, for employees, nothing would change, for patients would not limit or otherwise change. But it's changing who's the patient's mercenary. After the current scheme for the first 30 days of hospital absence, the employer pays for the first 30 days and from 31 days thereafter pays the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. All we propose is that the institution start paying the hospital with 16 days and more. Why? Where are the key reasons? I think that this solution would be most welcomed by the self - employed or domestically spoken espouses. Imagine that you have some activity that you are doing through espionage, that you are self-employed, that your work is also dependent on the key income your family has, and that this individual is sick. 30 days can be extremely long and can endanger many families and individuals into extremely difficult situations. You'll be wondering why we suggested that he take over the hospital payments on day 16, not until day 31. Because in our discussions with experts we found that all these seasonal diseases, the cold, the flu, maybe in this set, or not under seasonal disease, could count also various fractures, correct, these are all things that in some way can be rehabilitated within 15 working days or together within 3 weeks. However, if it is a disease that is longer than 3 weeks, it is clear that it is a worse disease, a more difficult thing, and solidarity should be included here, in case of more serious diseases, that the institution should take over the payment of patients first. I hope that those who say that you are socially aware that you have a sense of human being will notice these things, but you will notice or contribute to the continued solidarity of the Slovenian society, so that after 3 weeks of illness the hospital will take over the costs. In this way, it seems to me that this solution will primarily help to make those who are sick really welcome, but not that many today are working in difficult circumstances. That's the key thing that this bill of ours brings. Once again, nothing changes for workers who are employed, for employers or self-employed people much changes because it reduces to half the duration when they have to cover the hospital and brings a third extremely important thing, which is that it brings more solidarity into the Slovenian economic area. Finally, in some ways, we are also burdening the economy. We are convinced that in our current economic growth our society can afford this, and we are counting on the support of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! We are opposed to the proposed law in Levica because it is attempting to transfer EUR 60 million of the diseases currently paid by employers to a health-care facility that is already without money. Under the current regime, the employer must pay sickly for the first 30 days of the disease. After this proposal, I would like to pay it, as we have heard from the proposer, for the first 15. The difference is not small, it is €60 million per year, this should now be covered by the Health Insurance Office, i.e. all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who pay contributions to the health treasury. If the proposal had been adopted by NSI, it would have jeopardised health care, as I said, the cash register has already been exhausted and the employees would not have been much better off. The duration and the amount of the hospital allowance would not change, all that would change would be for employers to transfer €60 million of their costs to the country. It is an interesting law, which is followed by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Of course, it is their interest that labour costs are transferred to the country as much as possible, i.e. to all of us, thereby increasing profits for their economic operators. In Levica, as we say, we oppose this and demand that the costs of the labour force be borne by companies. After the restoration of capitalism in Slovenia, capitalists transferred a large part of the labour costs to the country and society. The minimum wage is €600 net. Even a single worker can't live with it, let alone a family. The cost of maintaining the family is therefore borne by the State, instead of employers, which pays children's allowances and kindergarten subsidies to families. We will spend €560 million on family transfers this year, and, as if that were not enough, we will now have another €60 million in sickness. We hear several times that companies would use savings to create jobs. But does that hold? Let us remember that the first Janša government has radically reduced the corporate income tax and completely abolished the salary tax. Did we create new jobs with this? No, no, no. However, this significantly reduced the country's reserve during the crisis and thus the resources that could be used to combat record unemployment at the time. Employment is not directly dependent on taxes, but mainly on economic circumstances and development policy. If a low-tax policy were to work, it is said that if logic were lower than taxes, more jobs were to be applied, the employment rate would be the highest in Bosnia or Bulgaria, but we know it is the other way around. Finally, let me draw your attention to the problem of self-employed people. In Slovenia, more and more workers are being forced by employers to open espies. These holiday workers do not have a contract of employment, so that the employer does not pay them a hospital allowance, so in Levica in September we tabled a proposal for a law whereby the institution would pay the hospital's allowance to self-employed persons from the fourth day of the disease. This measure would cost around €7 million per year and would have been implemented in 2019. At that time, the Institute was expected to have additional revenue from the abolition of supplementary health insurance promised by the Ministry of Health. 7 million to help self-employed people would therefore not be a burden of health care and would not be known for health services. This is the only acceptable solution for holiday workers and self-employed people in general, so once again we urge you to support it. What we have ahead of us today is, above all, attempts to relieve employers of the burden of paying hospital benefits to their employees and to move on to a health treasury that is already overloaded in one way or another. Of course, we can't support this in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The purpose of the amendment to the Labour Relations Act before us is to shorten the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources in the event of the worker’s inability to work due to his illness or injury, which is not related to work. Under current labour legislation, compensation for illness or injury to the employer shall be paid 30 working days for each absence from work, but not more than 120 working days per calendar year. The novelty proposes to shorten this period to 15 days or up to 60 working days in the calendar year. In the Group of Unaffiliated Members, we agree that the survival of individual entrepreneurs depends on their work activity and, therefore, because of the longer absence of hospitals, they are often unable to afford, which can make the disease worse. However, I must attach to the Government's opinion at work when it claims that the reduction of the hospital stock in which many entrepreneurs are forced to resolve reasonably under another law and not in the Labour Relations Act, which is the statutory law and labour relations regulated at systemic level. The proposed amendment thus achieves a different target group, as highlighted by the proposer, these are independent entrepreneurs. I believe that this issue, which is not new and has been ongoing for some time now, needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner and in the framework of the agreement reached by all stakeholders, so we will not support the draft law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Ms Irena Grošelj Košnik will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	Dear Vice President, all in attendance! The proposed amendment to the Labour Relations Act, which we are considering today, provides for a reduction in the period when the employer pays compensation in the event that the worker is unable to work because of his illness or injury. Under the current regime, compensation is to be paid to an entrepreneur for 30 working days, and according to the applicant this period is absolutely too long, as this in practice amounts to 40 calendar days. It is also stated that entrepreneurs and craftsmen have been calling for a number of years to amend the provisions relating to the length of this period, since the current regime is also intended to affect presentationism. At the time of the consideration of the draft law on the working body, we voted in favour of the MEPs of the Modern Centre's Group to conclude that the bill was not suitable for further consideration, as the dilemmas related to the proposed amendment were raised in the direction of what the Government had also pointed out. In doing so, we were asked to reduce the right to health care from compulsory health insurance by reducing the payment period by the employer, as the Health Insurance Office should have taken on the burden of payment substantially earlier, but we know that the situation in the health register is not optimistic. According to the Financial Administration, the state of claims for compulsory health insurance contributions was almost 300 million at the end of 2016 and the revenue from the contributions represented almost 98 % of the total revenue. The reduction in the period of remuneration paid by the employer could therefore result in either the reduction of health services, which are the right to compulsory health insurance, or higher contributions to compulsory health insurance. We certainly cannot agree with that. At the same time, the aspect of promoting health by the employer can also be highlighted. A responsible employer who is aware of the importance of his workers or, in the case of a self-employed person, the importance of the work done is expected to be activities related to the promotion of health. In view of the cost salary for the employer, the prevention may constitute a lower burden than the curativa. We are aware that such problems faced by entrepreneurs and craftsmen need to be addressed, but it should be stressed that they need to be addressed in an appropriate manner. Members of the SMC have repeatedly stressed that changes in legislation concerning workers and employers must be resolved in the framework of a constructive social dialogue, which we believe is an important value in our society. Therefore, the SMC Group has the view that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Good afternoon, nice greeting also to the students of the Bachelor's High School, who accompany us on the balcony! The amendment to the Labour Relations Act, which is now here before us, touches on the issue that craftsmen and entrepreneurs have been alerting for a long time and refers to the length of the period when the employer pays the remuneration from his own resources. The existing legal regime means that the employer bears the burden of compensation for the absence of a hospital employer up to 30 working days or 40 calendar days. Applicants propose to reduce the period of sickness and injury compensation paid at the burden of the employer from the current 30 working days for individual absences and up to 20 working days per calendar year for 15 working days for each absence from work, but not more than 60 working days per calendar year. The proposed solution burdens the economy, so we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the development of the country depends in particular on the well-functioning economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Government and others present! The purpose of the drafters to intervene in the Labour Relations Act is to achieve that for a specific target group, that is, for independent entrepreneurs, from the health cash payment start payment of the compensation for the absence of a hospital 15 days earlier than currently regulated. However, the proposed text of the provision of the article which regulates this is somewhat superficial, since the content of the article itself does not correspond at all to what the applicant advocates in the explanations of the introduction of the law and of the article itself. We therefore do not know for sure whether the applicant wants to favour only entrepreneurs or whether the change also applies to those who are employed, i.e. workers. The proposal focuses on espies and smaller entrepreneurs, while the proposal covers all businesses. This means a significantly greater financial impact and a significantly greater intervention in the health treasury than would have been in force in the light of the initial purpose of the law. Members of the Desus Group note that the proposed overall burden of all employers in kind is not acceptable in terms of the cost of the health allowance. It is also not clear whether the applicant wanted a change in the compensation for diseases and injuries occurring at work or in relation to work or in those not related to work or possibly even in all diseases and injuries. In the light of its powers, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out the incorrect placement of the amendment in the third paragraph, which the proposer has been prepared to correct with the amendment of the amendment to the Committee which we have received from Members on the Home Committee at the table. In view of everything, of course, it is not possible to assess the financial implications for healthcare and not to see what such an extension of rights in one area means for the existing set or scope of rights. Indeed, it is highly likely that, without additional financial resources from compulsory health insurance, any other rights of citizens would be encroached on, as the health treasury is already in crisis. Furthermore, it can be found that the Labour Relations Act is not exactly the right title for the subject that the drafter wants to solve, but should be a health law. Finally, it is again one of many proposals that has not been coordinated through dialogue with the social partners. The change in such arrangements should be the result of constructive social dialogue and the broadest agreement reached by the social partners. It is also crucial that the proposed amendments follow the objectives set and that matter be regulated under the relevant rules. The Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia also does not support the bill. The trade union has expressed its belief that such changes should be viewed more comprehensively, including in terms of the sustainability of the health register and in relation to the means that ensure the rights of compulsory health insurance. There is a fear that later, due to possible additional burdens on the health register, they might interfere with the scope of the citizens' health rights. At the preliminary reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Relations Act, we have already clearly defined the representatives of the Desus Group for those reasons, namely that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The position of the entire Desus Group is also quite identical. Members of the Desus Group will support the proposed conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! In front of us is the first of two proposals for a law submitted by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats with a first-signed mag. Matthew Tonin. The main purpose of the bill, as proposed by the applicants, is to shorten the period during which the employer pays compensation from his own resources for the duration of the worker’s work retention due to non-working diseases or injuries, from 30 to 15 days. In this way, the proposers want to relieve the economy of part-time financial burdens and ensure that tradesmen and self-employed persons have an equal position with regard to the right to hospital leave. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal because it believes that the problem should be addressed systematically and on the basis of the consent of the social partners. They caution that the issue should be addressed by another regulation in such a way as not to interfere with the Labour Relations Act. It basically regulates the relationship between the worker and the employer on the basis of a contract of employment concluded, and therefore not the rights under the obligation of the task force to which the applicants are addressed, i.e. the self-employed or the craftsman. On the Committee, we followed the opinion of the Government and confirmed the conclusion that the law was not suitable for further consideration. We also remain at the parliamentary session. Even though the bill does not have our support, we want and must point out that the problem addressed by the applicants will need to be addressed as soon as possible. We agree that the current system of remuneration for periods of detention for certain groups poses a serious problem, but as we are different people, so are the specific situations in which we are. This is also why not all go to the same basket, because there are many different groups in this segment that cannot be equated due to the specificity of work and status. This is precisely why they should be addressed in a fair manner by addressing problems in groups of comparable cases. But it is a tough nut that will have to be crushed and answered to the question of how to deal with it. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that the social dialogue through which an agreement must be reached is necessary. We believe that it is social dialogue that is the important nuance that will allow the actual agreement to be made without a fig in the pocket to be respected. For us, social dialogue is just a marriage to protect workers' rights in the search for solutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Messengers, Members, good afternoon! The Labour Relations Act, which is before you today, is one of the laws governing hospitals, but of course it is not the only one, but it also affects the Health and Health Insurance Act. Those who report to us, namely, New Slovenia, that this change in the status of patients should be regulated in a partial and not comprehensive manner, are simply mistaken because the parliamentary group has tabled both laws governing this matter and the parliamentary procedure in Parliament is such that today we are considering this law, and a little later the second law will also be dealt with. The new Slovenia, clearly, supports this law, not least we are proposing ourselves. A key solution to this law is that, in case of more serious diseases, solidarity is more quickly involved. This means that if today the Department of Health Insurance or Health Insurance takes over the payment of the hospital staff only on the 31st working day, we propose that this happen on the 16th working day, which means that this period should be halved. Why? Because we estimate that treatment or recovery can be performed within three weeks after all seasonal diseases, but when longer diseases and longer-term illness are involved, it is appropriate to include solidarity more quickly. What the New Slovenia Group proposes is, last but not least, a long-standing requirement of Slovenian crafts and entrepreneurship. Those Members who attend the event of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia know that they always issue a booklet in which they describe their requirements. Exactly what we are proposing today is one of their demands. When you vote today about whether this law is appropriate or not, keep this in mind, because when this event is happening, there are all too many beautiful smiles, including beautiful pictures, when there are concrete actions, when you have to vote with your finger for a specific solution, and then suddenly your hands are numb, at least for some. The solution we are proposing would be an exceptional solution, particularly for self-employed people, to espouses who are themselves without other employees, where the disease is a severe shock, a severe obstacle and also a significant disadvantage to family income. If the family is dependent solely on income, earning one espionage, and if this individual is sick, then they are in terrible trouble. I would like to have, as New Slovenia has a sense for a small person, those parties who, in their names, at least declare themselves in favour of these things. €60 million is supposed to be the cost of this proposal, but this cost is not going to air. This money isn't thrown away, but it's those 60 million people who will go to people. Who last pays for the medical bills? Who, last but not least, is driving the public sector, which is why the public sector can survive at all? The economy, workers and employers, with contributions each month, fill different state cash registers. So I think it's unfair to talk about it if we're going to put $60 million on someone right now. No, for 60 million euros, we're gonna relieve people. The fact that this €60 million is going to mean I don't know what the burden is, I think it's sad to know, on the other hand, that injections into the health register are not a problem when it comes to patching up the health mafia's appetites. That is not a problem at the time, but the problem is when people need to be burdened with money. As I said, the New Slovenia Group will be happy to support this law. We hope you do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 40th item of the agenda. This concludes the 31st item of the agenda. We're moving to 32. At the end of the day, this is, on a second level, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on secondary education in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gymnasiums does not affect the concept of the regulation of high school education so far, but rather, through the proposed additions or revisions to the existing legislation, in particular, improves the clarity of the legal provisions and their consistency with other strategic documents, and in particular with established practice. This also takes into account the changes brought about by new circumstances in the implementation of secondary school programmes due to changed social conditions or certain established practices. The law also now enforces feasibility and connectivity with the Act on the targeting of children with special needs and the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, as these are also two laws which interfere with the implementation of all activities in the field of secondary education. What does change involve? In particular, to improve the effectiveness of education through a more precise definition of student status in secondary education, including opportunities for repetition and overcoming. So far, we have not regulated these rights as precisely as we are now regulating them in order to make the infringement and repetition more transparent. At the same time, we place the rights and duties of the students and the educational functioning of the school, which has been regulated by the law so far, and it is also very important for education and education to have a basis in law. We add the definition of conditions for living in a student home, we also place Slovenian courses for pupils whose mother tongue is not Slovenian or who have not completed primary education in the Republic of Slovenia, and we complement the penal provisions and improve access to education for foreigners living in Slovenia, and we also equalize the right to high school education. What is the most important message of all these additions? As already pointed out, more precise definitions of parallel education, conditions of admission to artistic high school, as well as skill tests. The provisions that limit the number of years in regular education will also contribute to the effectiveness of education, and will also encourage prudence in the decision-making of students, students in the decision-making process for enrolment in secondary education programmes, and not least to improve the sustainability of funding for high school education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! At its 37th regular meeting on 26 October this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on High Schools, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, the proposed law has been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. Her representative explained that they had made one constitutional comment in the opinion, namely in the transitional provision of Article 18, while the other comments related to the compatibility of the bill with each other and to the clarity and certainty of the individual provisions. Their comments were duly taken into account by the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. Her representative said that the Commission supports solutions that enable the development of modern concepts of education through sustainable development, innovation and creativity within an interdisciplinary approach to the development of competences. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andrej Barle Lakota. A discussion followed, in particular, on the necessary examination of the knowledge of Slovenian for pupils whose mother tongue is not Slovenian or who have not completed primary education in the Republic of Slovenia, on the parallel education of students, on the conditions for the repetition of the year, on the prohibition of the presence of pupils, including in other forms of education, not only in education, and on the conditional exclusion of students. Some discussions were also held on the improvement of the quality of high school programmes and on the decline in enrolment in recent years, on the return of respect for secondary schools and on support for the inclusion of people with special needs. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and proposals for amendments to the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Vesna Vervega will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear Minister with colleague, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! High school education is defined in our education system as the most general choice of education that prepares students for further study. In doing so, of course, it pursues important educational objectives. This novelty has added to these goals of high school education the promotion of lifelong learning, career planning and management, education for sustainable development and the development of creativity and innovation. In the SMC Group, we welcome these additional objectives and stress that the essence of the public education system is certainly not intended to obtain competition tools, as we could have followed some interpretations at the meeting of the home labour body, but rather to develop and promote all the above-mentioned objectives. As has been pointed out several times, the novel does not have a reform character and does not mean a radical change for a well-functioning high school education. Notwithstanding this, the proposed solutions improve the clarity of the legal provisions, enable the realization of the right to education for foreigners who are equally educated in our country, strengthen the teaching autonomy of schools and teachers, follow the latest recommendations by international organisations, regulate the rights of students with special needs and gifted students and the tasks of the school in this regard. The biggest debate in the preliminary examinations of the bill was on solutions relating to parallel education and the duration of the student status. In parallel education, we have also assessed in our parliamentary group that there are no valid reasons for tightening the conditions of parallel education. With regard to the provisions on the duration of student status, we add that solutions are reasonable and necessary, of course with certain exceptions to the possibility of further extension of student status, taking into account the social situation of the individual, and with a clearer definition of what the repetition of the year means. The education system, including in high school, needs to adapt to social change, which is increasingly fast and more complex nowadays. High school programs prepare students for further studies, so their structure and functioning are an important part of the educational vertical. It is also important that high school education provides a sufficiently broad general education, which is the basis for all courses of university study. At the same time, it should allow for the development of skills, skills and other personal qualities that are necessary for later success both in the profession and in life. The amendment allows them to continue to upgrade the quality of the educational work. However, we believe that the school curriculum, which was updated ten years ago, will require more fundamental changes, both substantive and performance levels, such as the reform of the general graduation. We will support the amendment of the Law on High Schools in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Ms Marinka Levičar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague, welcome! The new proposal for high school schools proposed by this amendment does not change the current concept of secondary education arrangements, only improves the clarity of individual provisions and affects their compliance with European strategic documents, the recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, national rules and established practice. In fact, this novel in the same way as the amendment to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education regulates certain areas, so according to the already announced support for this law in the Desus Group we also support the amendment of the Law on High Schools. Among other things, this law regulates the status of a student in a new and clearer way, which is very important, since this status gives rise to rights that are sometimes unfortunately abused. In the Desus Group, we believe that a new definition of the student's regular status and thus a clear definition of when and for how long the student's status can be extended will lead to the fact that there will be no more fictitious entries than now. By adopting this novel, we also provide better access to education. The proposal allows foreign citizens who pay taxes and contributions to us to be educated through their high school programmes. For those whose mother tongue is not Slovenian, it is certainly an important solution, which provides for the possibility of organising and participating in Slovenian language courses. Of course, it is right for the state to allow the right to education to foreigners and also to ensure that their knowledge of Slovenian is so good that they can successfully complete their education. Finally, these options have a positive impact on their integration into our environment, both socially and culturally. Attention in this novel is also focused on promoting the development of more modern concepts of education and education, through emphasis on sustainable development, innovation, creativity and lifelong learning training. As has already been said, we will support Ambassadors and Members of Desus's novel of the Law on High Schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Respected and respected, well-known! High school education is rarely the subject of debate in the National Assembly. The latest amendments to the Sectoral Law also date back more than ten years, in 2006. While such a legislative deadness may give rise to the impression that not much has happened in the area of general education, but, as we know, this is not the case. During those ten years of high school education, there has been a particularly significant expansion of the proportion of enrolled high school students. However, this has calmed somewhat, and the reasons for this can be attributed to such a broad promotion campaign, especially vocational education. The proposed novels of the Law on High School bring about small grade changes, most of which are the same as those enshrined in the second law governing vocational and professional education. Among the objectives, the proposer thus outlines the updating of the text with European strategic documents and with the OECD recommendations and coordination with the law governing vocational and professional education, and with the Law on Children's Guidance with Special Needs. In the Group of Social Democrats, we express our support, in particular, for those solutions that improve access to general education. The proposal allows foreign citizens who pay taxes and contributions to participate in high school education. From the point of view of successful education, it is also important to provide a Slovenian course for pupils whose mother tongue is not Slovenian. In the Group of Social Democrats, we reiterate the importance of openness and accessibility to various forms of education. Only then will an individual be able to develop his or her potential and develop into a single, complete personality. The proposed amendment to the Law on Secondary Schools, based on the model of regulation applicable to higher education and also extending to vocational and vocational education, limits the possibility of accumulation of entries not because of the desire for education, but because of the benefits that the student status brings. In doing so, we note that this should not in any way affect the intention of those who wish to obtain the desired education, so implementation will need to be closely monitored in terms of the fight against fictitious entries. In no case should we allow abuse to be at the expense of all those who make sincere efforts to obtain education. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Law on High Schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	Dear Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, all present, welcome! As students will benefit from only one repetition or one copy during the duration of the school, according to the new bill that we are considering today. The law also provides for a few exceptions, a student with special needs, a student who is being educated in parallel, a prospective and top-notch athlete, a student due to parenthood, illness or exceptional family or social circumstances, exceptionally, the status is extended by two school years. With this amendment and the amendment of the law, it is therefore the end of imaginary, fictitious entries. The Ministry has been promising the regulation of such a problem for some time and the proposed amendment to the law and the amendment to the Law on Vocational and Professional Education are a step in the right direction. We are pleased that the Ministry has recognised the importance of developing creativity, innovation and promoting lifelong learning among students, and this has also been recorded among the key tasks of general and professional high schools. The essential role of the school is not only to impart knowledge to students, but to develop their ability, creativity and responsible behaviour in society and family, so in our group we are committed to strengthening the promotion of creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship and talent development in primary education. At the same time, the educational system should respond even more with its content to the needs and challenges of modern times. talented students should also be encouraged to develop their talents, so we support parallel education in any secondary school programme. There are no valid reasons to tighten the conditions only in artistic high schools of music and dance. The proposed amendment of the law equates the right to secondary education for foreigners who are taxable persons or taxable persons of their parents and therefore they are educated under the same conditions as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For these pupils whose Slovenian is not the mother tongue, the school must provide an intensive Slovenian course at the beginning of education and enable them to reach the level of A2 of the common professional language framework. According to the proposal, the student with special needs will still have priority in the entry, but will have to achieve at least 90% of the points necessary for the entry. The school will be able to prepare a personal education plan for students with special needs, prospective and top athletes and students who are in parallel, showing how the evaluation will be adjusted, the presence and the full scope of the obligation. We also welcome the regulation of the rights and duties of students in the law, which has been regulated so far under the law. In the New Slovenia Group, we will unanimously support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. We're in Levica until the novel of the Law on High Schools. While it brings positive changes in access to education for foreign citizens, it also provides assistance at the legal level in learning Slovenian, but the motive for most of the proposed changes is well-known for not saying that I should fight against effective entry. In this area, socialists cannot agree with the government's tactics, which are only addressed by students and students' rights. Where the problem actually arises, however, it remains intact and unaddressed. Just as we have recently been able to monitor this in the case of students, this novel will reach into the scope of the student rights so far, in a way that the student's status will be limited to the duration of the educational programme, which can be extended by repetition, transcription and thus extended by a maximum of 2 school years. This restriction is not as radical as it was in the case of students who suddenly lost their expected rights because of last year's novel of the Higher Education Act, but still spoils the same tactics, so in the fight against effective enrollment, it interferes with the existing rights of students. As I have often pointed out for the ZVIS, fictitious entries are only a symptom of the fact that young people, after completion of education, are mostly available only some pernicious jobs without serious social security. The appearance of fictitious entries is due to the structural coercion of capitalism, survival strategies if you want to, which in the absence of opportunities are used by young people. This is not a luxury for young people to avoid the world of adulthood, but for a rather simple life - style measure, because young people are easily excluded from entering adulthood. For the plastic image I'm talking about yesterday, we were able to monitor information in the media about what happens to franchises in the field of mailboxes, what miserable working conditions they have to deal with, what an insurmountable situation they are in, because they are suppressed in the extreme situation of vanity, low income and total exposure to the employer and market movement. This is the reality of jobs faced by young people. Clearly, they are looking for some alternatives to how to get through life a little better. One of these alternatives is also fictitious entries. Why? It's the student work. Student work is the ultimate goal of each fictional entry and in a number of cases it has long grown beyond its scope, since it is no longer temporary or temporary, nor is it student or student anymore. From a capital point of view, such work represents a cheap source of labour used by employers and is well-transmitted by private agencies, not for small profits. Covert working relationships and forced self-employment are on the rise, as the Labour Inspectorate warns us every year. Employers simply do not work for a certain period of time, but young people who come to the labour market are faced with an increasing number of employers' pressure to open up their espa – not as entrepreneurs, but as agents, to understand – or even with explicit instructions from employers, that they will be fictitiously registered to take them through a student's contract, even though in most of these cases they are working relationships with all the elements of the regular working relationship and should be legally employed for an indefinite period of time under our legislation. In the fight against all these phenomena led by fictitious entries, the Government should start for a reason, it is said to strengthen the supervision of the competent authorities, a nominal labour inspection which is currently human and financially malnourished and cannot therefore be countered by the already fully segmented and pre-arranged labour market. Without this control and without the enforcement of labour law in practice, the exploitation of young people will gradually become more cemented than the business model of enterprises, which the country also benefits more from from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 40th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We're moving to 33. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Call and Vocational Education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, Minister of Education, Science and Sport. Here you go, Dr. Maja Makovec Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education does not affect the concept of vocational and professional education, but rather, through the proposed additions or amendments to existing regulations, improves the clarity of the legal provisions and, in particular, their consistency with other strategic documents, regulations and established practices. It is also a reflection of changes that social change and thus the impact on the implementation of secondary education are often found not only in established practices but also in the search for new solutions. This is exactly what the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education is proposing, while also aligning vocational education with the conditions that the Law on the Guidance of Children with Special Needs and the Law on Vocational Training is directing, and it also relates to the connectivity and uniformity of feasibility where it faces the Law on Gymnasiums, which we have just discussed. In preparing these solutions, however, we have not only taken into account the prevailing situations, societal challenges and coordination with other laws, but also, in particular, the Europe 2020 strategy and the strategic framework for European cooperation in education and training, as well as the conclusions of the recommendations and guidelines of both the Council of the European Union and the OECD recommendations. What are the key changes made by this novel? First of all, improve the effectiveness of education through a more precise definition of the duration of student status in secondary and vocational education, as well as the possibilities of overcoming and repeating it. We are also establishing a central register of apprenticeships and the establishment of the validation of apprenticeships, which has now been defined at a sub-legislative level. We also encourage the provision of detailed, uniform and internationally comparable information to employers on the professional qualifications achieved by the annex to the certificate, which is also very important for the labour market, and we identify and place on the rights and duties of students that have so far been defined in the sub-legislative acts, because in education and education, as mentioned above, the social challenges also bring a number of changes that we need to take into account in the daily educational process, so it is right to put them at the legislative level. We also define the conditions for living in a student home and improve access to education for foreign citizens living in Slovenia, as well as the equalization of vocational and vocational education rights and access to Slovenian courses, especially for pupils whose mother tongue is not Slovenian or who had no opportunity to complete primary education in Slovenia. It is very important that the novel refers to more precise definitions of parallel education, testing of knowledge and talent, thereby regulating rights in the same way as in the previously proposed Law on High Schools, and thus giving us opportunities for previously acquired knowledge at the secondary level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! At its 37th regular meeting on 26 October this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the proposed law has been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service from a legislative point of view. Her representative explained that the concerns raised by their opinion with the amendments of the coalition groups were largely eliminated. The Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which supported the proposal of the law, also gave its opinion. Her representative said that the Commission had agreed with the student representatives' warnings that the conditions for maintaining student status in the re-entry should not cause new social problems, and therefore supported the intention of the bill's proposer to make this condition somewhat soft, aware of the existence of individual social, economic circumstances. In the introduction, the draft law was presented by the representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Andrej Barle Lakota. The discussion followed, in particular, on the maintenance of the current regime of the vocational course, the compulsory presence of the student in teaching, the possible seizure of subjects by which the student endangers others and hinders learning, the increased evaluation of educational programmes in the national mixed area, the sighting of apprenticeships, the extension of the possible duration of student status to two school years and the regulation of parallel education. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups and proposals for amendments to the Committee. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 33rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 40th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to 34. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed Slovenian Motherhood Act in the context of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Anton Persak, Minister for Culture. Here you go, Mr. Anton Pershak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian Matrimonial Act defines the Slovenian Matrimonial as an autonomous institution with the longest tradition of Slovenian cultural and scientific society, which has existed for more than 150 years and in which individuals from the fields of culture, humanities and sciences unite. The Slovenian queen is established as a society and acts in the public interest and is appointed or elected as members and members on the basis of an invitation and in accordance with the tradition and status of society by top scientific, artistic or cultural workers and workers. The law sets out the purpose of the Slovenian Matrix, promoting and developing cultural and scientific creativity in Slovenia, by bringing together in its work top scientists and artists from various fields of art, humanities, sociology, science, technology and medicine. The law defines in more detail the tasks performed by the Matrix in the public interest in the field of culture and science. On the basis of this law, the Republic of Slovenia will provide conditions for the work and development of the Slovenian Matrix in a manner and provided that the functioning and purpose of the association with the Statute do not substantially change. On the basis of the coordinated work programme and the financial plan, the decision will provide the financial resources of the State budget for co-financing the costs of staff. The amount of co-financing shall be determined as the basis of three gross salaries and public sector employers' contributions for three comparable jobs classified in the starting wage classes. These are jobs the description of which is summarised in the collective agreement on cultural activities. The funds shall be provided under budgetary options by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science, first at two-thirds, second at one-third. In addition to the financing under the decision, the Slovenian Matrix will, of course, be able to obtain other public funds obtained in accordance with the rules for costs and expenditure not financed under the decision of the Ministry of Culture. Of course, like any society, it will also be able to obtain funds from non-disclosure sources. Dear Members, Members, this law regulates the position of the Slovenian Mother in a similar manner to that of many other countries, in particular those who have not once lived in independent countries and have established national institutions for national defence purposes and with a view to the development and affirmation of national culture and science until they have become independent. Today, queens, both in other countries and in our country, are a special historical phenomenon, yet they make a significant contribution to cultural and scientific development. From this point of view, this law is necessary and justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here you go, Mrs. Maria Antonio Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with a co-worker, a very nice greeting to everyone! The Committee on Culture is at its 26th session. Ten. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on Slovenian Mathematics submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. In the light of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects, the proposed law has been examined and commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. Her representative said that their comments were largely duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and pointed out that the draft law governs the position of the Slovenian matrix as a society, i.e. legal persons of private law, with the establishment and functioning of the society based on the voluntary association of members, the autonomy and independence of the society and the freedom of members to determine their own purpose, objectives and mode of action, which also applies to societies of public interest. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport also gave its opinion, which supported and welcomed the legislative efforts to regulate the more stable financing of the Slovenian Matrix. Mr Anton Peršak, Minister of Culture, introduced the draft law. The debate followed, in which Members supported the proposed law, which will regulate the status and financing of the Slovenian matrix as an institution of exceptional importance for the development of Slovenian language, culture and science. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, receives the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Nice greetings, presidents, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the Law on Slovenian Matrimonials defines the Slovenian Matrimonial as an autonomous institution with the longest tradition of the Slovenian cultural and scientific society, in which individuals from the fields of culture and humanities and sciences unite. The aim of the legislative proposal is to regulate the basic systemic funding received by the Slovenian matrix in the past and will also allow for the creation of the most basic conditions in which it can continue its mission to an extent comparable to past periods. The bill sets out the purpose of the Slovenian matrix, i.e. the promotion and development of cultural and scientific creativity in Slovenia. The draft law sets out in more detail the tasks performed by the Slovenian mother in the public interest in the field of culture and science. In the area of culture, it is intended to carry out the following tasks: to develop original Slovenian artistic creativity, to take care of Slovenian language both in Slovenia and in the Slovenian home, to promote the organisation and revitalization of cultural activities and to promote Slovenian artistic achievements abroad. In the field of science, it is intended to carry out the following tasks in the public interest: to organize various events, symposia, lectures, round tables, to connect with related organisations abroad and to provide Slovenian libraries abroad, Slovenian lecturers at foreign universities and other scientific organisations with parts of Slovenian scientists. The Republic of Slovenia is expected to provide conditions for the work and development of the Slovenian matrix on the basis of the proposed law, provided that the functioning and purpose of the status society does not change significantly. On the basis of the coordinated work programme and the financial plan, the decision will provide financial resources from the State budget to be contributed by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we support all efforts that contribute to the enrichment and preservation of the Slovenian cultural and scientific space, so we will support the proposed law. At the same time, we call on the Slovenian Democratic Party to further strengthen the cooperation of the Slovenian Government Office in place and around the world with the Slovenian Matica and thus upgrade and improve their functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	Mr Primož Hainz will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary, nice greeting! We have before us a special law, the Slovenian Matrimonial Act, which we have been looking forward to for at least three years in this mandate. If we make a rapid oris of the historical event of the Matrix, we can see that it is an important and even indispensable part of the Slovenian nation and the related national identities. It was founded in 1864 and is the oldest scientific publication in our country; otherwise, the oldest Slovenian bookstore Mohorjeva Society was founded 12 years earlier. The Slovenian queen was established by voluntary contributions from Slovenian educators, traders, entrepreneurs and, interestingly, Emperor Franz Joseph added part of his personal contribution. She published scientific works and literature and was organized as a society and brought together people who knew more, so they were a little in the way of every government. She also successfully spent the time of socialism, organised as a society, perhaps a bit conservative, but extremely important for Slovenian scientific and literary creativity. In democracy, the Minister of Culture took her resources and spent a difficult, hard financial time. This bill actually repays some kind of debt. Thus, the Slovenian parent is an autonomous non-governmental institution in the public interest, it has the status of a society, and although its work has never been targeted at profit, it is precisely because of its irregular financing, which is largely dependent on subsidies and sponsors, that its operation is at risk today. We urgently need the adoption of this special law and thus finally provide at least the most urgent and basic funding for its operation and development. In the Desus Group, we will of course support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian queen has more than 150 years of history. In 1864 it was founded by Maribor patriots with voluntary contributions from educators, traders and entrepreneurs. The aim was to issue more demanding works in Slovenian language, develop its terminology, raise education and could even list. Today, the Slovenian Matrix is a publisher of quality works and remains a scientific and cultural institution, a forum of many debates, organizer of various events and much more. Apart from certain support for individual publications by the Public Book Agency and donations, the Slovenian Matrix does not have a permanent source of funding to ensure its stability. Overly dependent on the success of obtaining funds either on public tenders or otherwise after 153 years, society is at risk to the extent that its cultural, scientific mission is questionable. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the legal regulation of its situation. We believe that the most important contribution of the Slovenian Matrimonial Act is the regular budgeting of employees, even at relatively modest levels. In the Group of Social Democrats, we recognize the function of the Slovenian matrix in the public interest. It is also of great importance to us that, during the privatisation of companies and publications in the field of literary activities, Slovenska matetica maintained the status of a public institution which, among other activities, strengthens the publication of domestic and foreign works of beauty and humanities. Last but not least, at the declaration level, the highest representatives of the State expressed special recognition for the work of the said institution. At the 140th anniversary, the current president of the country, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, awarded the Slovenian Mathematicians a golden honorary mark of freedom for an exceptional share in the dissemination of the book and the cultural and scientific mission, and at the 150th anniversary, the honorable patronage of the mark was awarded to President Borut Pahor. The Parliamentary Common of Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Mathematics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. It will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we have written in our basic programme that Slovenian culture is a treasurer of national creation over the centuries, so we are proud of it and want to preserve it while at the same time promoting the creativity and cultural participation of contemporary creators. For the present and future of the national community, whose identity is not based either on the historical emphasis on national competitiveness or on the extraordinary economic or military power of its elite, culture is indispensable and extremely important. Without Slovenian culture there would be neither Slovenian state nor Slovenian politics. We want balanced care for the central cultural institutions and the decentralised network of these institutions by municipalities and provinces. At the initiative of Maribor patriots, the Slovenian queen was established 150 years ago with voluntary contributions from educators, traders and entrepreneurs to print more demanding works from various fields, raise the level of education and knowledge, create Slovenian terminology for different professions. Today, the Slovenian Matrix is a scientific and cultural institution that organizes scientific meetings on various issues of Slovenian culture and society and its future. At the same time, it is a publication that provides quality and original works and translations of humanities, sciences and techniques. It is an important centre of cultural and scientific activities in Slovenia and in the replacement, bringing together more than 300 regular and honorary members, top artists, scientists and cultural workers. Many external colleagues are also involved in its work. It performs its cultural and scientific tasks in addition to regular work in the field work sections also through numerous public cultural events, symposiums, lectures, round tables and top publishing activities. What still distinguishes the Slovenian matrix from related institutions today is its mission to bring the educational community closer together in very different directions. The queen thus expresses public interest in various areas of cultural and scientific activity. Because of the cultural tradition of the 19th century, the Western European peoples do not have such a matrix, and therefore its position throughout history and today is not comparable to that of the scientific and cultural institutions in Western European countries. As a result of all of this, we believe that it is time for the position of the Slovenian matrix to be systematically regulated and also adequately supported by the Members of the New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, of course, to uphold the law. We want Slovenian queens to work successfully in the future as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u67	Ms Vesna Vervega will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go, Mrs. Vervega.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! Today we are adopting a proposal for a law on the Slovenian Matrimonial, which will regulate the legal and financial status of this important cultural and scientific society and provide conditions for its future work. The Slovenian queen is the oldest of such institutions, which were established for national defence and national affirmative reasons in the 19th century not only in the territory of today's Slovenia, but also in the territories of other Slovenian countries, which were part of the multinational empire and began to feel threatened under the influence of Germanisation. For more than 150 years, the Slovenian queen has been concerned with raising the level of education and knowledge, organizing scientific meetings on the various problems of Slovenian culture and society and its future, while at the same time publishing quality works and translations of humanities, sociology, nature, medicine and technology. Unfortunately, despite its venerable tradition, it has been facing financial difficulties for many years and has so far been forced to appeal to various institutions. The bill provides that Slovenia undertakes to finance the main part of its programme and the most basic permanent costs of its operation. This will also enable the further promotion and development of cultural and scientific creativity in Slovenia. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the Slovenian Matrix, as an institution of exceptional importance, needs to be maintained and allowed to function smoothly, so we will unanimously support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u69	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 40th item of the agenda or no later than 20:00. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 36. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on localism within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nejc Bezovar. Here you go, Dr. Nate Bezovar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposer wants to simplify electoral procedures and reduce the costs of the elections by means of a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. Among other things, we want to reduce the number of electoral authorities, to delimit the powers between the authorities responsible for professional assistance and supervision of the conduct of regular local elections, and to eliminate the non-compliance of the Law on Local Elections with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia governing the elections of the authorities of the provinces, the Law on Foreigners on Terminology, which is important for the enforcement of the electoral rights of foreigners, and the Law on Elections to the National Assembly on the deadlines for the submission of nominations and the start of the electoral campaign. The content of the proposed amendments is as follows. The Novel of the Law on Local Elections brings a permanent term of regular local elections. To date, the arrangements for the establishment of the regular local elections follow the manner laid down in the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, since, after six regular local elections, the proposer notes that the manner in which the date of the vote is to be fixed is to be changed to an earlier date throughout the calendar. The provision setting out the exact date of the vote is, of course, based on the principle of legal certainty and legal predictability. The second proposed amendment is that the amendment of the Law on Local Elections reduces the number of electoral bodies. The proposal for a novel repeals the electoral commission of the electoral units and the electoral commission of the smaller parts of the municipalities. In view of the introduction of the information support provided by the State authorities at each regular local elections since 2006, the electoral commission of the electoral units and the smaller parts have not been implemented in practice. The Law on Local Elections is also more specific than it has so far limited the powers between the State Election Commission and the Ministry of Public Administration regarding the professional support of the electoral process. The Law on Local Elections in determining the obligation of substantive competence to interpret the provisions is not accurate, which is problematic in view of the simultaneous meaningful application of certain provisions of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. In practice, it has been decided that the provisions of the Law on Local Elections are interpreted by the Ministry of Public Administration, while the provisions relating to the electoral rules and procedures laid down by the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, as well as to local elections, are interpreted by the State Election Commission. Two articles are supplemented in this respect. The arrangements applicable to the fixing of emoluments for electoral committees shall also be amended so that they are governed by the rules governing the amount of emoluments for electoral committees and referendums at national level. The inclusion of foreigners in the sacred parts of the congregations, which has not yet been regulated in a manner consistent with the election rights of foreigners for elections to the municipal council, is determined. In accordance with Council Directive 94/80, the proposer amends the provisions of the Local Elections Act so that there will be no difference in the voting rights of foreigners in elections in the holy parts of the municipalities and in the municipal council. The New Law on Local Elections also abolishes the possibility of elections in sacred sections for two years. This is a deletion of a provision that has not been applied in practice, as it represents a disproportionate cost, so the elections in the holy parts of the municipalities will be held exclusively at regular local elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u71	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Once again a nice greeting, the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, how many of us are present! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 30th meeting, on 25 June. Ten. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Elections submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government on 14. Ten. 2017. The amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD groups on 19 July. Ten. 2017 to Articles 16 and 26, and the SDS Group of Members on 17. Ten. 2017 to Article 3(3). Members also received proposals for amendments to Articles 14 and 15. In an additional explanation for the articles, the representative of the proposed Minister of Public Administration said that the reasons for the introduction of the bill were in particular the simplification of the electoral procedure and the reduction of the costs to the municipalities they had by carrying out the elections, as well as the reduction in the number of electoral authorities. The aim is also to clarify the powers between the electoral authorities responsible for providing professional assistance during the elections, i.e. between the State Election Commission and the Ministry of Public Administration. At the same time, the aim of the proposal for a law to abolish non-compliance with the Constitution governing the election of the authorities of the province, with the Aliens Act on Terminology and with the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. A fixed date for the holding of local elections is proposed, electoral committees of electoral units and electoral committees of the smaller parts of the municipalities are abolished. The arrangements applicable to the fixing of emoluments for electoral committees shall also be amended by applying rules governing the level of remuneration for electoral committees and referendums at national level in order to replace equivalences. The election rights of foreigners in the world of the smaller parts of the municipalities are aligned with the election rights of foreigners for elections to the municipal council, and the possibility of elections in the holy parts of the municipalities being suspended for two years. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation of the written opinion that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly had commented on Articles 16 and 26. The representative of the Council of State said that the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Local Interest Group supported the proposal of a law addressing the problems so far and simplifying the implementation of local elections, which would be cheaper for municipalities. The state councillors gave a positive assessment of the proposal for a permanent term for regular local elections, stressing that probably an optimal date that would be acceptable to all is simply not. The Committee adopted the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3, the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 16 and 26, and on the basis of the written proposal of the amendments to the amendments to its amendments to Articles 14 and 15. Thus, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u73	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings to all who are in the hall! Respected, the nearest level that enables people to participate effectively in the formulation of decisions relating to their daily lives and environment is local self-government, simply stated by the congregation. Each municipality differs from another municipality, by territorial connection, mutual and neighbourly relations, size, territorial location, or it is a municipality with a predominantly urban or rural population. Thus, the tasks, the operation, the interests, the commitment to regulate an area are very different. Citizens and citizens exercise this right through the election of their representatives to the various bodies of the municipalities, and the manner of elections is prescribed by the legislation we now have before us. This is not exactly a matter of substantive changes to the legislation in force. It is necessary to adapt the provisions of the European directives, certain procedures are simplified, which, according to the assessment of our Group of Members, is a positive thing and a number of procedures should be simplified. We are reducing the number of electoral bodies, abolishing the electoral commissions of the electoral units and the electoral commission of the smaller parts of the municipality that have not been established in practice. These have very rare municipalities, all of which increase costs and also contribute to increasing errors in the electoral process itself. The term of regular local elections is also changing. The current method of calculating the election date allows for a constant movement of this date within an earlier period, the Government's proposal is to set a permanent deadline for regular elections to be held on the second Sunday in November. We have engaged Ambassadors and Members of the Desus Group and have also consulted citizens and citizens on this issue. People's responses were different, less uniform – yes, we are for a permanent term of local elections, we would also like a permanent term of national elections and also a permanent term of referendums, let it all be for one day. Of course, it's not that simple. Now we have the opportunity to set a permanent deadline for local elections, and when to set it, there is another issue. Whatever date is set, there will always be holidays, holidays or other activities that make it difficult for candidates to come to the polls and make it difficult for people to come to the polls, so we decided on a committee that it should not be the second one, but the third week in November. This also took account of the opposition's proposal. That way, people will know exactly when the elections are, and they will engage, of course, if it is their interest. In the Desus Group, we support the will of most people, so we will make a unanimous contribution to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u75	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! There was no debate on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections in the Home Labour Body, so the position of the Social Democrats Group will be very brief. We support the proposed and complementary amendments to the law relating to the simplification of electoral procedures, the rationalisation of the costs of municipalities arising from the conduct of local elections, the delimitation of powers between the authorities responsible for the implementation of the elections, the fixing of the date of the regular local elections – after the adoption of the amendment on the home labour body, the local elections in 2018 will be held on the third Sunday of November, and the second round will be held 14 days after the first round – and the harmonisation of this law with other laws. However, we have also been able to agree on the number of signatures needed to submit the application. At this point, I would like to draw the attention of the municipalities to the need to harmonise municipal acts after the adoption of this proposal. Some additional proposals have also been tabled by the Commission of the National Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development to amend electoral legislation, which we believe are beyond this bill, but these proposals will probably have to be discussed once. Our assessment is that all the local elections so far have been conducted well and without major shocks. We are confident that this will be the case in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u77	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u78	In Novi Slovenije we always advocate simplification of procedures, especially if it also saves costs. Since 1995, local self-government has made great progress for the newly formed municipalities, so it is extremely important that, at the legislative level, we allow citizens to decide who they will elect to the municipal authorities as clearly as possible. If the state makes less and less funding available to municipalities and imposes new obligations on them, it is good at least that the procedures for electing mayors, municipal councils and smaller parts of the municipalities will be easier and cheaper. And it is good for all of our government to discuss, in recent times, the reduction of the number of electoral bodies, the equal treatment of local and state-level electoral boards and the permanent date of local elections. Since the costs of the local elections burden the municipalities, the abolition of the electoral committees of the electoral units and the electoral commissions of local communities or the smaller parts of the municipalities is welcome. In practice, these committees were some kind of appendix, their work was to rewrite the outcome of the vote from the electoral committees and to list the votes. They only met at night after closing the voters on the day of the vote, made their minutes, signed up and received payment for it. It is also a big nonsense that elections in sacred parts could take place for two years, so practice has also shown, and it is therefore right that the novel should abolish this possibility. This year, when we had more votes in Slovenia, the same will happen next year, we see that the problem is becoming not only low electoral participation, but also participation in the work of electoral committees. The members of the electoral committees shall be appointed new for each election or other vote. Since there are a large number of electoral committees that number six members, it is often difficult to obtain candidates for them, even in smaller municipalities where many citizens run for any of the functions, which is not compatible with the work of the electoral committee. And if it is entirely a matter of new members who have no experience, this may also pose a problem for the work of electoral committees. In Novi Slovenija, we are therefore inclined to consider that members of the electoral committees would also be given a four-year term, of course with the possibility of early resolution. The fact is that voter participation in local elections is much higher than in other state elections. This means that people respect and support local self-government because they are aware that operationalism is significantly greater at this level. In view of the above, in New Slovenia we will support the amendment of the Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u79	Mr Jani Möderndorfer will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u80	Good afternoon. Today's marriage brings a lot of changes that I don't even want to mention because I think at least four predecessors have already processed, restored and told. But I will stop at one alone, which was in some ways the most interesting, and there was also a very interesting discussion, we are talking about a permanent term. You know that 15 countries in Europe, of which 12 are members of the European Union, already have such a permanent term. This was also one of the reasons for good practice to make local elections in this way in our country. Of course, there is always the core and the problem in detail — what day it will be. And the suggestions were different. One proposal to be in October; another proposal to end November; and a third proposal to make it a third Sunday. All this time, the problem was only in these terms, whose time it will be. Of course, each proposal had a kind of argument. If it were too early, since you knew that the elections were not just the day they were held, but many months earlier, electoral work would have been delayed and moved virtually in the month of August or summer months. On the other hand, if it is too late, we have a problem, because at the time of our holiday, it is November 1st and the day before the reformation day, these would be the days when the applications would be submitted. A number of very technical operational problems that needed to be coordinated. On the committee, as has been said twice, the opposition's proposal has been adopted three times, but this proposal will also have a problem. Anyway, if we have a second round of elections, it's like fourteen days after that, it's all gonna be around the carrot. In a way, it may be a problem, but I'm sure the law comes at the right time. Not in the year of elections, but in the year before; and more importantly, at some principle level, I am convinced that the majority rate is so great that the law can gain its confidence and also its implementation in the next year when local elections are held. At the modern center party, we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u81	Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you again, chairman, for your word. Last thing I can figure out is how nice and cool it is when we all agree on some things. Just thinking and learning about citizens and citizens – that if you want to. We have before us a proposal for a new Law on Local Elections, which simplifies electoral procedures and reduces the costs to the municipalities they have through local elections and also reduces the number of electoral bodies. The electoral commission of the constituencies and the electoral commission of the smaller parts of the municipalities is hereby abolished. Refunds for electoral committees shall be coordinated and shall be linked to the electoral boards and to referendums at national level. The new law also eliminates inconsistencies with the Constitution, which regulates elections to the authorities of the province, with the Aliens Act on Terminology and the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. The election rights of foreigners in the holy parts of the municipalities are aligned with the election rights of foreigners for elections to the municipal council. However, the possibility of elections in the most sacred parts of the congregation for two years is abolished. In this respect, I stress that we have already made recommendations to the Government in the Slovenian Democratic Party, aimed at simplifying procedures and removing administrative barriers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want legislation as close as possible to citizens and citizens as possible. Unfortunately, at the time, the coalition refused to listen to our proposals and rejected the recommendations that would simplify the procedures for our citizens. With the proposed amendment to the Law on Local Elections, which is before us today and which we are considering today, some of the provisions that have proved to be insufficiently precise, ineffective and some are also unnecessary. Thus, our recommendations at the time proved to be justifiable and justified. The proposed amendment to the Law on Local Elections, which has already been highlighted, also sets a fixed date for local elections. There were various suggestions here. It was accepted, and I am pleased to say that my amendment or amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party has moved this date, instead of Martin's week, which some celebrate as a family day, to the third Sunday of November, which is certainly a better solution, no matter when the second round will be. It has also been exposed to mickey, but we know that the carrot is tied to the day and not Sunday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u83	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 40th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 37. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for the adoption of the Authentificum of the fourth paragraph 153. ARTICLE AND OTHER PARAGRAPH 154 Member of the Criminal Procedure Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the assembly by a group of six Members and Members with first-signed mags. Matthew Tonin. I take it my colleague Tonin is not in the hall yet, so I suggest we wait a second. Mrs. Ludmila Novak, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u84	I'd like to propose a five-minute interruption to sort out the species.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u85	I suggest a five-minute recess. Thank you very much. We'll resume in five minutes. Colleagues and colleagues, if you don't mind, because I see Mr. Mag. Matthew Tonin joined, but would continue regardless of the proposal proposed. In order to complement the explanation of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Matthew Tonin. Please, Mr. Tonin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u86	Dear Vice President, thank you so much for your generosity! As we all know, questions have arisen in practice and in the professional public regarding the interpretation of Article 153, paragraph 4, and Article 154, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Procedure Act. It is a matter of whether the State Prosecutor must, within two years of the end of these measures, lodge a request for an investigation into the indictment or the indictment. As a result of the current practice, this was not the case, since such evidence could also be used in the proceedings if the State Prosecutor applied for an investigation or an indictment within a period of two years. According to some new explanations in practice and in the work of the professional public, the deadline is two years. The consequences of this are that, in the event that, within two years after the expiry of the measures, the State prosecutor does not request an investigation or an indictment, such evidence should be destroyed irrespective of the circumstances. Can you imagine the speed of the Slovenian justice system, how many dropped cases would you have? Sadly, when the judiciary and the police have collected evidence against criminals and do not use it within two years, the case falls. Such an interpretation would change the long-standing practice of applying this provision and result in an unusual destruction of evidence in a number of procedures. In view of the contradictory interpretations and the great confusion caused by the different interpretations of the Criminal Procedure Act in the application of criminal law, it is essential that the legislator clearly and unequivocally define the meaning and provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and thus ensure the smooth progress of the proceedings. In Nova Slovenija we have enough double criteria, tailor-made interpretations and limitations of the various trials. We want clear laws that will apply to all equally, regardless of money and influence. That's that first condition for justice. The very case of Zoran Jankovic gives the impression that you are not righteous. It is difficult to understand that in all previous cases, the court took into account the evidence even after the expiry of the two-year period; in the case of Zoran Jankovic, these evidence was destroyed. There is clearly at least the appearance of double criteria. When we make an explanation of the provisions of the law, we must look back at the time when the legislator introduced this provision into the law. This happened with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, adopted by the National Assembly in April 2004. In its 12th and 13th Articles, this amendment is drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the existing 153rd and 154th Articles of the Criminal Procedure Act. This proposal proposed a new fourth paragraph of Article 153, which applies in the same form today. In explanation for Article 153 of the draft law, the new fourth paragraph of Article 153 was explained by the following wording: “The proposed fourth paragraph regulates the situation where, following the implementation of the measures, the State Prosecutor declares that he will not initiate prosecution; in such a case, the material collected by covert measures shall be handed over to the investigating judge, who shall destroy the material before informing him of the use of the suspect’s measures, which shall have the right to be made aware of the collected material.” It follows from the text of the explanatory note that the destruction of the material is necessary only if the State Prosecutor makes a statement that he will not initiate prosecution. In the case of Zoran Jankovic, the prosecutor did not state that he would not start a prosecution. However, if the prosecutor carries out activities aimed at the prosecution of the perpetrator of a crime, it is clear that the aim of the prosecution is to continue, and therefore there is no reason or basis for destroying the evidence. It is clear from the explanation of the articles that the legislator has not defined the time limit for two years as overriding, but as instructional. In our own words, with this authentic explanation, we just want to make it very clear that the cases of Zoran Jankovic, when evidence is destroyed, cannot happen anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u87	The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jan Škobernet, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 33rd urgent meeting, the Justice Committee considered as a parent the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 153 and the second paragraph of Article 154 of the Criminal Procedure Act. On behalf of the applicant, Mrs Iva Dimic, in an additional explanation for proposing an authentic explanation, stated that questions arose in practice and in the professional public as to the interpretation of Article 153, paragraph 4, and Article 154, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Procedure Act, whether the evidence collected by specific investigation measures should be destroyed if, within two years of the completion of the latter, the State Prosecutor did not apply for the investigation of the indictment or the indictment. However, by changing the established case-law based on a rebuttal case, there are different interpretations as to whether the deadline for two years is of an instructional or repulsive nature. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service found that the conditions for the adoption of the authentic interpretation were not met in their view and therefore the proposal was not substantively defined; on the other hand, the State Secretary of the Stare presented a written opinion by the Government, which concluded that the proposed authentic interpretation was both necessary and welcome. Even the Attorney General of Mags. Andrej Ferlinc said that the State Attorney's Office supports the proposed authentic explanation, as they also explain the articles under consideration in the same way. Although different positions were raised in the debate between Members and Members, after a discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision with nine votes in favour and three against. The Committee on Justice considers that the authentic interpretation of Article 153, paragraph 4, and Article 154, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Procedure Act should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u89	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Dark Staret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, distinguished Members, other Members! At its regular meeting on 31 August 2017, the Government adopted the Opinion on the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 153 and Article 154(2) of the Criminal Procedure Act, in which it has already stressed in its introductory part that it agrees with the supporting arguments set out in detail and explained in section 3 — Reasons for an authentic interpretation. In doing so, the Government points out as important that the destruction of the material is necessary only if the State Prosecutor makes a statement that he will not initiate or institute prosecution. In the absence of such a declaration, however, the material in cases where the covert investigation measures are carried out lawfully and where the findings of the disguised investigation measures justify the suspicion that the offence has been committed and that the designated person is the perpetrator is not the subject of destruction. Following the opinion of the Government, the meaning and purpose of the articles in force set out both of those articles, which are subject to authentic interpretation, are very clearly justified in the function of prosecution and criminal proceedings and in the established methods of authentic interpretation – linguistic, telelogical, historical, systemic and logical. All these interpretations give rise to a clear purpose and importance of the legislator, which was also described in the explanation of these provisions when the Criminal Procedure Act was adopted in the past. The importance and purpose of these provisions, which are the subject of an authentic interpretation, is thus the primary protection of the privacy of the suspect and of other persons subject to covert investigative measures; and long-standing jurisprudence also attaches to this. Therefore, a different interpretation and application of these provisions would, in the view of the Government, constitute a constitutionally inappropriate and disproportionate restriction of the function and effectiveness of the execution of criminal proceedings and prosecutions and the effectiveness of the courts, law enforcement authorities, namely the prosecution and the detection bodies; in particular, the Government considers that a disproportionate and inappropriate restriction of the rights or public interest provided by the criminal procedure and prosecution, the parties to the proceedings and also the injured persons of such worst-case offences would constitute, in the opinion of the Government. We know that covert investigation measures can, as a rule, be used for the most serious crimes, i.e. those which interfere with goods and legally protected rights at the highest ultimate level, i.e. in the framework of criminal law protection. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the reasons for the authentic interpretation and agrees with its explanation or bearing arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have repeatedly noted that the fundamental mission of the State is to ensure justice, solidarity, equality, and, above all, equality and equal treatment of all. This means that laws must be applied in practice and also in their writings for all equally in all identical or equal circumstances. This is particularly important when we are talking about criminal proceedings. In many cases where the Slovenian judiciary gives the impression that it does not guarantee fundamental justice, this is not necessarily due to the role of justice, but also because, due to the inaccuracies of the legislation adopted by this assembly, we have led society to the point where, in the event of obvious breaches of social morality or criminal law, we can escape the time limits of justice as the legislator is obliged to correct such errors. In this regard, in the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the proposal by the proposer to implement the authentic interpretation of Article 153 and Article 154, first and second paragraphs, of the Criminal Procedure Act, so that such obvious violations as were alleged to have taken place in a procedure which, precisely because of the procedural failure, should never have been completed should have occurred. It is not only the duty of the State to make justice possible, but it is also the duty of the State to ensure that either by conviction or by exoneration, a certain process is completed, because, for the suspect and also for the victim, this is essential to ensure dignity – either one or the other, and in some way both. As we speak in the case of the use of disguised investigative measures, it is particularly important to take into account that such processes in terms of proof of intent and guilt on the part of the police and the prosecution are not simpler. It is therefore necessary to understand that, in the event of a two-year deadline for instruction, and that, in the clear intention of the State Prosecutor's Office, he wishes to continue the procedure, that he needs additional time to collect evidence and justify the prosecution's proposal, he can make sense of his work. Where there is already a reasonable doubt on the basis of which a decision on the use of disguised investigation measures has been issued, it does not allow sufficient evidence to be collected for the continuation of the procedure, any such authentic interpretation will not be taken into account as the procedure will be completed. In all other cases where this time-limit would in fact prevent the State from performing its most basic function of ensuring justice and that all those acting contrary to social and legal standards are placed before the time-limit of justice, it is our responsibility, of course, to record this properly and this fundamental justice, which the State must guarantee, is also ensured. As has already been said, no matter what side of the proposal it comes from, we welcome good proposals from the Social Democrats. This one's one of these, so we'll back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u93	We continue with the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, on her behalf Mr Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u94	Dear colleagues and colleagues! This authentic interpretation is about ensuring, in particular, the element of justice, because citizens and citizens in this country are often given the feeling that politics is not concerned about a just country, nor is it about a just country. This is why we have proposed this in New Slovenia. As already mentioned, something has happened in the application of the Criminal Procedure Act which should not have happened in a normal state of law. The same provision of the law has been interpreted in a consistent manner in all the cases so far, and the interpretation of the same provision has changed completely in the procedure of the influential mayor. Some say that these legal provisions are quite clear. How can we say that the content of these provisions is clear if the whole country, the professional public and the judicial system are arguing what they really mean?Oh, my God! How? For 20 years, the legal provision has been interpreted in such a way that it is an instructional period and that there is no need to destroy the evidence in such a case; on the other hand, in the case of hearings, evidence in the case of Jankovic, this interpretation suddenly changed completely. Look at the fragment! It is quite clear that the importance of these provisions is a number of ambiguities at present and that their content should be clearly defined by the authentic interpretation of the legislator. Due to conflicting interpretations in the profession and practice and the confusion caused by the conduct of prosecution procedures, it is essential that the legislator clearly define the meaning of the disputed provision by authentic interpretation and ensure the smooth progress of the proceedings. In view of the above reasons, the applicant considers that it is correct to interpret that the period of two years referred to in Article 153, paragraph 4, and Article 154, paragraph 2, goes by the deadline of the instructional nature. The explanation that evidence should be destroyed if, within two years after the expiry of the measures, the State prosecutor does not submit an investigation or an indictment would be disproportionate, since in some cases it would even systematically prevent certain criminal proceedings from being carried out. In the event of a longer-term search for an unknown criminal, such evidence should be destroyed after two years, although the detection and prosecution authorities would regularly carry out their activities and might be very close to finding the perpetrator. The resolution of more complex cases requiring a longer investigation procedure to be carried out in order to detect a suspect would be impossible, following such an explanation, to destroy the evidence. Today we are living in a time of technological development and rapid technological change also in the area of evidence in criminal proceedings. If today some evidence cannot be the basis for a conviction, this can change completely in the course of technological development within two or three years. However, contrary to technological developments, the interpretation used in the case of an influential mayor effectively limits the duration to a maximum of two years, and we must not forget in particular that the criminal law of the obsolete period already lays down. Indeed, the setting of a two-year duration for evidence within the existing criminal law system creates new limitation periods. As a result of this, there are several obsolete and unfinished procedures. At the time of consideration of this proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the Criminal Procedure Act in the case, let me give a slightly more visual indication of the greatest problem of sudden new interpretations of these provisions. We're picturing a crime -- a murder case. By listening, the investigating authorities could obtain a video recording a clear and unequivocal confession by the perpetrator that he had committed a crime of murder. The only problem would be not knowing whose voice is on the tape. But three years later, new discoveries or new technologies would lead to a finding of who the perpetrator is, so that would be the ability to determine. And even though we had a recorded confession of murder, this evidence could not be used, but it should be destroyed in accordance with a new explanation. In New Slovenia, we therefore fully understand that, after such stories and recent changes, we do not trust in the justice system and in state institutions in general if we allow such acts. That is why this authentic explanation – to restore a sense of justice to the citizens. In the light of all the arguments that we have already presented and which are set out in the proposal for an authentic interpretation and which have also been made by the Government in its opinion, we propose to adopt an authentic interpretation with the following wording: "The provision of the fourth paragraph of Article 153 and the second paragraph of Article 154 of the Criminal Procedure Act should be understood to be a period of two years from the end of the implementation of the measures. Where, in the light of the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office during this period, it is clear that it intends to pursue prosecution, the material obtained referred to in Article 153(4) or 154(2) may be used as evidence in the proceedings, even if the request for an investigation or an indictment or an indictment is filed within two years of the end of the implementation of the measures referred to in Article 149a, Article 149b, Article 150(1), Article 151, Article 155(a) and Article 156(a). Ladies and gentlemen, in New Slovenia, we will support this proposal of an authentic explanation, and once again, I stress that only because we are a fair country party with the same criteria. We also ask all other parliamentary groups, including from the coalition, to listen to our arguments and, with the support of our proposal, to contribute to clearer rules and efficiency in the area of prosecution of crimes. Let us not allow the laws of the tramps to prevent persecution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u95	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! The result of today's proposal to adopt an authentic explanation is another affair that leaves a bad or bitter taste and, above all, encourages people's mistrust in the rule of law. The need for an authentic explanation of the provisions was demonstrated by a recent court decision to destroy all the evidence collected in the Ljubljana Mayor's pharmacy affair. In Levika, we have repeatedly exposed the main culprits for the misrepresentation of justice. It is certainly influenced by a number of resounding affairs of political officials who eventually never get an epilogue. And this is in some ways the traveller from which this country came – from the arms affairs, inherited projects of type TES 6, bank holes, and tycoon transactions to many corruption affairs and too many domestic and friendly business. Unfortunately, no one has taken responsibility for most of these to this day. This is not just the fault of the courts, the skilled staff of lawyers, the avoidance of judicial proceedings or the failure of the delivery of judicial shipments; part of the blame goes to the governments and to the compositions of the National Assembly. Too often the reckless amendment of legislation, often adopted without public debate and ignoring many warnings from the profession, is certainly one of the major problems we have. The proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act is a consequence of all of the above. In addition, there were no specific justifications and no specific justifications for the destruction of the collected evidence. In the meantime, there was also a constitutional assessment by which the Constitutional Court found that the provisions were consistent with the Constitution; then there was a change of case law, which now took the view that the evidence obtained through the use of hidden investigation measures should be simply destroyed after two years; even though the prosecutor had not yet completed the investigation and had no intention of leaving the prosecution. The situation therefore needs to be resolved, as there is a possibility that more such criminal cases may fall due to a change in judicial practice. And the authentic explanation at this point is the only one that has any effect since the adoption of the law. As a result, she is the only one who can resolve the situation in some way. We will support the proposal for an authentic explanation because of what is said in Levica. However, I would point out in this place that the court is not the only one who has changed its position; it has also been changed by the Minister of Justice. Why? When the Constitutional Court examined the compatibility of these same provisions of the law with the Constitution in 2015, the opinion of the Minister and the Ministry was significantly different. In this view, it is only two years old that the material must be destroyed if the State Prosecutor declares that he will not initiate prosecution and even if, within two years of the end of the undercover investigation measures, the State Prosecutor does not make such a declaration. The Minister therefore has two key points in common with the matter under consideration. The first is that he also wanted very extensive controversial amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act through the National Assembly to be brought to an end without taking into account the profession, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and with a set of amendments that we received just before the present. The second is that the Minister repeatedly changes his views and opinions, which ultimately has a very strong impact on the fact that the situation of trust in the rule of law is the same as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Dobovšek will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u98	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Why are we here today? Due to the conflict between the Constitutional Court decision and the authentic interpretation. We are talking about the Criminal Procedure Act and the covert investigation measures. Coverted investigation measures are an intervention in human rights and should therefore be interpreted and implemented in a restrictive manner. And it is not proof, but circumstantial evidence: but you must gather evidence by ear. Unfortunately, in most cases this evidence is not collected and it goes to court with hearings and then things fall. Two problems facing us today. First problem, we all want the procedures to be fast so they don't stall. The problem with the U.S. Attorney's Office is it doesn't work in hand. If we want it fast and expedient, then the state's attorney has to work in hand. And another problem is that the courts decide arbitrally, as the Constitutional Court has pointed out, and that there are errors in the data storage, as we and my colleague Gorenak have repeatedly warned that hearings are not being destroyed. The decision of the Constitutional Court is quite clear in these two cases. The deadlines are clear — two years after this time, things need to be carried out for covert investigation measures as prescribed by law. A prosecutor who has failed in two years must close matters. The Court must also act and must destroy the evidence precisely because of the importance of political proceedings, as the Attorney General has pointed out, that the policy is interfering with the procedures. Those who vote in favour of an authentic explanation will vote in favour of the fact that prosecutors can bring proceedings and that the evidence in court is not destroyed and that the courts decide arbitrarily. Let me put it more simply, so you'll understand. The whole procedure was initiated because of France Kangler, who had been violated by his rights in the proceedings. Members and the Council of State have brought human rights violations to the Constitutional Court. In March, the Constitutional Court decided that his rights were violated and what proceedings must be. Complaints were filed, of course one of the parties involved in similar proceedings, Jankovic, has already succeeded. The procedure was fast, the deadline was over, the evidence was destroyed. I wonder why my colleague Kangler didn't get the procedure so fast. My friend Kangler didn't make it in his complaint. If you accept today's explanation, it will be returned to that previous state and rights will still be violated. And only one will take advantage of this, but the process is already over. For him nothing will be better or worse, but we will never know whether judicial practice will be established, because it is our job to see whether the courts decide the same in cases. If, in the case of Jankovic, they decide whether or not they will decide the same in the case of Kangler. Then we can raise our voices and demand why they decide arbitrarily in the same proceedings. We will not support the proposal as mentioned in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u99	The text shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, on its behalf Mrs Irena Kotnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u100	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats, because of conflicting interpretations in both the profession and practice, also because of some confusion in the conduct of prosecution procedures, proposes to Members the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 153 and Article 154(2) of the Criminal Procedure Act. The fundamental purpose of the provisions of Article 153, paragraph 4, and Article 154, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Procedure Act is to protect the privacy of the suspect or other person against whom investigation measures have been carried out and to order the operation and decision-making of law enforcement authorities within a reasonable time. The purpose of the provisions shall not be to prevent the execution of prosecutions on the basis of lawfully carried out disguised investigation measures, the results of which justify the existence of a criminal offence and the suspicion that the person concerned is the perpetrator. We understand that the destruction of the material obtained is necessary only if the Prosecutor declares that he will not initiate prosecution. However, where they carry out various procedural activities aimed at the prosecution of perpetrators of a crime, it is clear that it is intended to continue its pursuit and therefore there are no grounds for destroying the evidence. However, as the Constitutional Court points out in its explanation of the decision, the key act is that of initiating or terminating the two-year period under consideration, i.e. an act of prosecution, which must be understood in a broader sense. Taking into account the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, the acts of the State Prosecutor as a law of prosecution are not only an indictment and an indictment but all acts aimed at the prosecution of a particular perpetrator or suspect. We can therefore understand that these are also remaining procedural tasks, measures and actions which are generally defined in Article 45 of the Criminal Procedure Act and which are aimed at the prosecution of the perpetrator of the crime. Although the investigation is not a mere act of investigation either on purpose or in the form of an indictment, such an act clearly points to the intention of the State prosecutor to initiate prosecution. The fundamental question to be asked and to which different practices require an answer is how to conceptually interpret acts of persecution. So we want to know what that key act of prosecution is. From the Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the proposed authentic explanation is necessary and welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u101	The text is addressed to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, on her behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Today we are considering the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 153 and the second paragraph of Article 154 of the Criminal Procedure Act. We are considering it because, in practice and in the professional public, the question arises as to the interpretation of both articles, whether the evidence collected by specific investigative measures should be destroyed if, within two years of the end of these measures, the State Prosecutor does not apply for an investigation, an indictment or an indictment. By changing the established case-law, based on the resounding and totally unacceptable case of Jankovic and the pharmacist, these issues have been reopened. Actually, it's something else. It is a question of why courts interpret the same provisions differently and thus divide citizens into first-class and second-class ones. Slovenians and Slovenians are increasingly losing confidence in the rule of law. Here we can also ask ourselves about the very motive for such an act by the courts. With different interpretations, they can simply protect the untouchable and the fundamental problem is right here. We have already debated this issue on the Committee on Justice. The provision of the Constitutional Court relating to this case has been highlighted. However, today we are talking about one stage earlier, that is, the stage when this data is somehow available to the prosecution, although the President of the Supreme Court said in Turnout: Yes, wait a minute and now we have a constitutional provision, but we did not have it before. In short, the opinions here are different. It is also worth noting that there was a debate at the meeting; now a fellow member from the Modern Centre Party is laughing, probably at herself, especially because she was so chaotic that she should never have allowed herself to do something like this. First, it was discussed that they would be against the said authentic interpretation, then had little to do with the ears of the Government, and finally, the said authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 153 and the second paragraph of Article 154 of the Law had been amended. Here it is seen that there are other criteria; that it is not what is right and what is wrong, but what is appropriate for someone; and that it is adapted in a given situation. You need to know that we know about 19 cases in the courts, these cases have been exposed where the evidence was different and the evidence obtained has been used after two years. In the case of Jankovic, this was not necessary, the cases were destroyed; in some other cases, it was completely different. At the time of the adoption of those legal provisions, there was no doubt that this was an instructional period, which was not problematic until the said case of Jankovic and the pharmacist. In voting, respectable, today we will see what we are defending in this country – whether the rule of law applies to all the same things and that we do not have first- and second-class citizens; whether it will be decided on the basis of interpretation of different courts, that it may be so, once again, as we have already known in the case of a commission run by Comrade Logar, when it was unable to obtain the most basic materials for work at the beginning, because one court ruled on certain cases such as that. We have a second branch of authority that obviously behaves in such a way that only the blue sky is above them. It shall take its decisions on the basis of whom it is necessary to protect in the country. As long as that is the case, and as long as those who are legal professionals and will return to legal waters after this term, we can be even more concerned than today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u103	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, on her behalf Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the Secretary of State, coworkers. Dear Members and Members! Each company is faced with practices that are not acceptable. He's facing the crimes of individuals, groups of people, crime. In modern society, however, we are witnessing the rise and development of ever-increasing forms of crime, organised crime, which requires a new, different approach to detection and investigation. The use of covert investigative measures is thus one of the methods or means to combat particularly serious crimes against organised crime. Since these measures are carried out in secret and without the knowledge of the affected person, the use of these methods requires so much greater caution in order to avoid interference with constitutionally guaranteed and protected rights and fundamental freedoms; in particular the right to privacy. On the other hand, first of all, the rights of the victims themselves must be guaranteed and protected. Thus, the question of whether the State Prosecutor must bring the material collected by these measures in the event that, within two years of the end of the implementation of these measures, he does not submit a request for an investigation, an indictment or an indictment. According to the position of the Desus Group, the legislation in force is clear. The legal deadline is of an instructional nature, and such evidence could therefore also be used if the State Prosecutor has made a request for an investigation or indictment or an indictment within a period of two years from the end of the implementation of the measures, provided that it is clear from his activities during that period that he intends to continue prosecution. All jurisprudence has also worked in such a legitimate way. The case that took place this year when the position was taken that it was a deadline of a slippery nature was thus destroyed. In the Desus Group, we are concerned about such a conversion, even because we also have a Constitutional Court decision in this case. It appears that some people are insidious to long-standing practice and to the decision of the highest judicial authority in the country. However, it must be borne in mind that the detection and investigation of such qualified offences generally requires the involvement of competent persons for a longer period of time, including more than two years. I think it has been reported that more than 80% of the procedures fall under this heading. It explains that this two-year period is of a slippery nature and that after two years all evidence must be destroyed, it would result in the immediate destruction of evidence in a number of proceedings, and we must not forget that the court is obliged to store such evidence as long as it keeps the whole file of a case. This can also be 50 years, and this shows a great disproportionateity if it is to be explained that after two years the evidence gathered must be destroyed. Therefore, in the Desus Group we will support an authentic explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u105	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation and to the text of an authentic explanation. As usual, first of all, the representative shall have the floor to propose the magi. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u106	President, thank you very much. The views of the parliamentary groups are concluded. I must say that I am pleased that the parliamentary groups will support this proposal of an authentic explanation, which is certainly an encouraging information and a step towards making this country more just. This whole problem, which arose in the case of Zoran Jankovic, is the most effective case of the inefficiency of the Slovenian judiciary. In this case, it has been shown that, even in two years, the prosecution is not in a position to prosecute a case. It has also been shown that the case of Zoran Jankovic has changed the case; and then we should not be surprised if people feel that the Slovenian judicial system is a legal system that legalises theft rather than share justice. If you look at many of the most exposed cases in the Slovenian judiciary, you find that many criminals, those who have harmed this country, taxpayers, have been rescued without any sanction or punishment due to procedural complications. It's due to procedural complications, the way evidence is eliminated and stuff like that. It is sad when people follow this and see that there is evidence that a criminal can be taken to the rear and that they continue to walk freely because we do not have an effective system to bring the proceedings to an end and end up putting criminals and criminals in jail. This is what I have been saying all the time that people are unhappy to make them apathetic, that they no longer believe in this country, that they no longer respect any institution in this country, because obviously the right for one is different. That is why it is in this house that we are most invited to begin to change the environment in which the judiciary will operate or operate. This authentic explanation is a step towards starting to improve these things at least in small steps, because otherwise things will only go down. The case of Zoran Jankovic, the case of Franz Kangler, also points to this difference that has arisen. Let us all ask, together, what can you be, an obstetric observer who does not know all the details of the functioning of the judicial system, in these two cases, thoughts. When it comes to the policy of the left-wing province of Zoran Jankovic, judicial practice changes at key moments in a way that eliminates evidence against him and in such a way there will be no appropriate sanctions against him. On the other hand, we have a policy of the right-wing province of France Kangler, which has in many cases been very effectively processed and handled by procedures against him. A neutral observer cannot conclude otherwise than that something is wrong with this judiciary and that it is inclined to one side. This feeling can confirm another fact, and in the case of France Kangler, it has also been confirmed that the evidence collected against him by means of covert investigation measures has been completely irrelevant in a given procedure, and the police have even unduly fed many more than two years and have gradually launched them into the media, in any event. That's the kind of thing that happens. I believe that the adoption of this authentic interpretation will make an important contribution to the re-unification of judicial practice in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u107	Dr. Ange Logar has the word. Prepare Mr Jernej Vrtovec and Mrs Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you, President. Al Capona was taxed, not on mob business, but on taxes; and because the judge replaced the jury just before the trial. He called another jury because he had reason to suspect that the jury accompanying the trial had been bribed; and it was. Because he did so, Mr Capone was suspected and convicted. Now we have another case. They got the Ljubljana Mayor clearly in an area where he is less careful than elsewhere. He got caught in the earrings. The matter was more or less sealed, and everyone knew what was following in the light of very juicy hearings. But there's been an incredible turnaround. The judge made a different decision. Judge Mojca Kocjančič, former wife of the former Justice Minister, decided otherwise. Before that, a fellow Bah said that 19 cases were identical, where the courts decided otherwise. If I am not mistaken, there were two other cases after this case, where the decision was also different. So we have lex Jankovic, a single case for a single representative in this country. Do you have any idea what we have in this country?Oh, my God! That the judicial branch of the Authority amends the case law in one case. Unbelievable! I doubt that there is any other European country that can "praise" with such a way of working and then wonders why there is no greater confidence in the judiciary. I believe that the desire, the initiative or the intention of the proposer, namely New Slovenia, was good that they wanted because the machine had broken down, at least partially repaired and so on. However, I do not agree with the proposaler's words in the introduction when he said: "We want clear laws." These laws are clear, for nineteen cases earlier, and for two cases later, these laws were clear; for just one instance, the law was obviously unclear. And we don't want the court to look biased. That's not true. Mojca Kocjančič’s decision is an exclusive case of court bias. Taking other cases into account, therefore, is such a rule of law for some; for Zoran Jankovic, an etablished privileged, there is obviously another state of law. And this is the case – a double state of law. This is also a key case of distrust in the judiciary. In particular, I was struck by the State Secretary Staret's statement on behalf of the Government when he said that an authentic interpretation of the law, which is therefore specifically taken only for Zoran Jankovic, was necessary and useful. Needed and useful. Listen, Secretary of State, what have you been doing? What, though, did you do when you were in power for three and a half years if this authentic explanation was necessary and useful? So for three years you have not served as State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice in order to ensure that the judiciary works in accordance with the law. I really want to know how many such holes there are in the laws, in procedural, criminal cases, which will only be used for first-class ones. And how many judges and judges such as Mojca Kocjančič are still in the judicial system, which will set their backs to cover the representatives of the established privileged by their decision, which is totally contrary to previous jurisprudence. And by their decision, they will reverse the case law, which will then turn to other representatives again. I am not such an enthusiast, I am more of an opinion with Mr Dobovsk on this authentic explanation. Today we are essentially deciding whether it is our fault to adopt double laws, whether it is a guilty judge who has made a single decision for Zoran Jankovic. If we accept that it is our fault, then we will take the blame in advance for any such release when the judge sets his back, takes the blame, and we will accept an authentic explanation. Even for each of the following, it is unlikely that it will be from the right political province; we can highly estimate that it will be from the left political province, that there will not be many. But when it is, it will be again. This story, with the decision of Mojca Kocjančič, took place on 4 July, from then on there were two meetings of the National Assembly, from then until the decision of the Supreme Court, two meetings. The government had plenty of time to come alone with an authentic explanation if it wanted to prevent this dual legal state. And if the government came, let's say, ten. 7. In the National Assembly with an authentic explanation, I would immediately support – responding to eccentric violations by one of the judges with an actual wedge to the rule of law. And knowing what's going on with banking crime, I can say that this decision by Judge Mojce Kocjančič is even more scandalous than you imagine, and that in the future it will be very heartwarming for those who are rooting for the rule of law. If the government came then, I would raise my hand immediately, and say, "The government is proactively working, responding." No, the government kept quiet. The government kept silent and allowed the Supreme Court to erase the case. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! How can I trust such a justice minister who leaves such a lawsuit? To make one example, which was more or less completed, which was written in magnetograms, clear, because we all read it, because we all know, those who have read this file which was published on the website; now they simply withdraw back and are said to be – necessary and useful. I understand why the D.A. says it's necessary and useful. Of course, he covers his judicial colleagues, he can say: So far we have not been able to decide otherwise, because it has been a double law. But I don't understand the Secretary of State or the representative of the government saying that. Forgive me, once again, so that you will not misinterpret me – I know that the intention of the proponent was right and right; but you, Madam Secretary of State, or Government would be the one who should come in time with an authentic explanation to be useful in a higher instance, that is, in the Supreme Court. Now I think we're cementing a double legal state. We're cementing! One for Zoran Jankovic and one for everyone else. And then let someone else talk about fighting and that the judiciary is working to raise confidence in justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u109	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor. Get ready for Mrs. Iva Dimic and the mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u110	Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, let me explain why Nova Slovenija actually filed this. Due to the many initiatives of people to do something after that scandalous decision to exclude hearings in the case of Jankovic. And we did it as soon as we could. In early August, our Member, Iva Dimic, convened a press conference and reacted. However, it is true that what we hear in the hall today is that we feel that everything is allowed in this country. Everything. Not just the Jankovic case. We have a number of other cases where there are fifteen, twenty criminal charges, lawsuits, the police are preparing everything, starting with hearings – and falling one after the other. Mr Jankovic also has many such things in court, but in no way has the time limit reached him. I do not say that he is guilty, let others say that; but it is interesting how we adapt the rules only to the specific ones. Yesterday, for example, we adjusted the rules of the game because we disagreed with the rules. That's exactly what we're doing. We're adjusting the rules of the game. So the procedures go down. Just look at the case - banking crime. How many bankers are convicted? How many bankers who have bathed several billion euros deep in a bank hole are now sitting or criminally responding to compensation? Nobody, zero. Let us ask ourselves what is wrong with us as a country fighting for a normal country. That hurts people. Therefore, they do not have confidence in this National Assembly, because they should already have clearly written rules that would not only apply to some, but also to Zoran Jankovic in this case. It hurts our citizens and citizens to have a country that is not based on the elements of justice. The purpose of the collection of evidence is certainly to be used in the proceedings. That's the first thing. If the evidence, in this case listens, is not used in the proceedings, then tell us why it is collected at all. Secondly, the destruction of evidence is certainly disproportionate because the accused, believe me, protects many other obsolete or any other deadlines, especially the obsolete ones. Take a look at how many times things get old in court. Big, big things. In any case where there is an influence, it almost never happens again to reach the time limit of justice. But so many elements of playing the rule of law, there's something very wrong with us. And even when we are accompanied at home in this discussion by, for example, perpetrators of crimes who are certainly afraid of the courts, they certainly hope that this authentic explanation will fall. This is where I agree with my predecessor, yes. Unfortunately, this authentic explanation will not reach Zoran Jankovic, but this is not the point of proposing this authentic explanation. But we can cement things forward so there won't be too many of these cases. In particular, I'm talking about banking crime, which people are very sensitive to. And if anyone, these people who accompany us at home now, what we accept in the National Assembly, believe me, criminals don't want us to accept this today, they don't want us to, because many powerful people want to go the same way that Zoran Jankovic did. Why won't they? Because surely the burdensome evidence against them will not be used at all. What is New Slovenia's wish? We don't really want our procedures to fall on procedural errors. More and more often, the legal system seems to be adapted, adapted to criminals many times, and things do not fall on the basis of either for or against justice, but especially because justice is not guaranteed through the process. We're losing things on procedural errors. And how do we play the rule of law? Once again, many criminals, in particular, are now talking about a bank hole, because it has been eloquently seen that crimes have taken place, but it is on the other side of the alert, from the police to the courts that nothing happens. This would have happened to a normal citizen and would have responded criminally and indemnity. In this case, in particular, it is very unusual what the judge and the prosecutor did. She waited for two years, and the letter came from the court to move and send videos; however, journalists reported that she had not even opened the email. So it's a problem with the D.A. and the court, the judge and the prosecutor. In two years, the prosecutor should be sent forward into the hearing process. Ladies and gentlemen, not only in this case, but also our primary task must be to ensure a just state. The next time we propose the Law on Courts in Novi Slovenija, where we will set up courts for banking criminals, we invite you again to support, because only in this way will we ensure that citizens are equal and equal in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u111	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Get ready, mags. Matthew Tonin and Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u112	Nicely greeted! However, I would like to prove on two facts how our justice works and how they take over the functions and of course the responsibilities of Slovenian officials. 21. 7th this year in the New Slovenia Group, we have submitted an application for an authentic explanation of what we are talking about today. We're in November today. If it were in the interest of this country and this national assembly, the authentic interpretation could be invoked at an urgent meeting immediately. Now! If we really wanted to secure the rule of law. However, that we have a legal state, also in the Constitution, all of us are said to have violated the Constitution. The second point which surprised me on the committee; my fellow Members, who were on the Committee on Justice, you had an authentic explanation to refuse, was the suspension of the meeting, the Secretary of State said that an authentic explanation should be adopted. If he hadn't activated himself, the coalition would have smoothed over this authentic explanation. There was an interruption and then you agreed in the coalition that there was a need for an authentic explanation, despite the fact that Attorney General Ferlinc said why it was necessary to have an authentic explanation and what it meant to have an instruction period in the investigation of long-term violations, abuses and criminal offences. Sam said that some information could be found later, because if an authentic explanation did not allow the deletion to happen, we cannot trace the killer or the killer. You can read what Prosecutor Ferlinc said. Thirdly, I can say that the Minister himself or the President of the Government in this National Assembly has said that if there is an outage, the heads will fly. Unfortunately, I can still see that officials in Slovenia do not know, do not want and cannot assume objective and subjective responsibilities in order to give up themselves; as does the British Minister of Defence, who after 15 years received a touch of a secretary and therefore resigned. When his secretary was later asked if it was really so terrible or how he commented that the secretary of that time touched her, she said: If Britain has no bigger problem than this, then I really do not know where we are and where Britain went. And we have obvious evidence that is so burdensome for the official that we wipe the evidence out that the official can remain in office. If a man were a man of his word and was aware of his actions, ethics, and morals, he would give up on his own. Slovenia, when are we going to see this? I hope so as soon as possible; but not with this coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u113	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Let Mrs Anja Bah Žibert prepare, and then we will move on to the final part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u114	Once again, thank you very much to all who will support this authentic explanation today. Mr Logar, who is famous as an extremely critical Member in this House and rarely commends a matter, is why I am even more pleased today to see a positive point in this proposal of authentic interpretation. And that with all the confusion and chaos in place in the Slovenian judicial system, it is the only plant that we as an opposition party can use to move certain things a little further. At least as far as New Slovenia is concerned, we have a peaceful conscience. As soon as we realized that this might be a problem, we reacted and introduced an authentic explanation. I am also pleased that Member Gorenak, who is an expert in this area, immediately recognized this as a good thing; that in this sense the government may not have recognized it from the very beginning, because it would have been possible from July 2017, when we tabled it, but today we are in November, perhaps to speed up the proceedings a lot. It is also necessary to be honest with the Secretary of State and the Government that they have played an important and crucial role, as Commissioner Dimic said today, that we will most likely accept this authentic explanation because without the Secretary of State, the coalition machine would simply reject the opposition proposal. As far as this is concerned, recognition should also be given at this point to the Secretary of State. From the beginning, we too claim that the law has been clear by now. If the judicial branch of power was in doubt, I could also read the legislator’s explanations to individual articles and could see that things were absolutely clear there. And I don't know how this coalition of reasons is, today you are relatively silent in this debate, except that you have given your views on the debates that have been sent, there is no dialogue or debate on the subject. When we went to see statistics, 21-1; I think it's very eloquent. 19 before Zoran Jankovic, two after Zoran Jankovic; only Zoran Jankovic is special in Slovenia. If, even in the next term, any government coalition will be formed, want to restore confidence back to this country, then I think that the starting point where confidence needs to be built is through reform of the judiciary in the direction that it will also be judged in a just manner and that the judgments will be such as to build trust in people and to create a sense of justice and that those who sin also respond to justice. Without this, the various institutions, including this National Assembly, will continue to sink in confidence. Here we need everyone to do their part, because without it our future is not the most beautiful. When reform is under way, I think that judges or the judiciary should also ask themselves what they can do. You know, we have three branches of power. At least two people check their trust regularly. The legislative branch of government goes every four years to ask people for confidence. The executive branch of power can be much more frequent. But the judicial branch of power lives in its bubble, and if you sometimes listen to it, at least what bothers me and it's right to hear it from our mouths too, it's their pride, if you can, what can you do to us. And then similar statements in terms of what you get involved in our work, why that, what that is. I think that the legislative branch of power is also responsible for the situation, because we are the ones that set the framework in which these people operate. It will be important to rewind this system. To reconsider, at least I am advocating a trial term for judges, a greater role in how they are progressing and what positions they are taking; also checking their past work and so on. Because if we continue to push our heads into the sand, if they are an independent branch of power, which no one can and cannot do, then things are far from getting better. They too will do the most if they cease to judge according to the principle of the Scriptures, but if once they begin to focus and judge according to the spirit of the law. Let this debate today also be a small contribution to some self-reflexion, as well as to the self-cleaning of the judiciary. As I said, at least the legislative branch of power here can be calm, purifying us every four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u115	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Then we are going to the conclusion of the debate, where a representative of the government gets the word if he wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. One more time. Undoubtedly, this is New Slovenia, and I will also say what colleague Iva Dimic, who has really advocated the committee's acceptance of this authentic explanation, has done so well. But I think there's been a lot of abuse, even naivety, and now I'm going to connect why. The colleague herself said that if we were to overcome reason in this country and actually move in the direction of the rule of law, which is a constitutional norm, then such an authentic interpretation would have been adopted much earlier if this problem had actually been adopted. At least the New Slovenia proposal would have been discussed much earlier. Therefore, I believe that the coalition Members have not changed their position as to how this authentic explanation is needed at once, because they would somehow follow the Secretary of State. No, no, no. You know why I don't believe that? Because I believe that if the case were to be Zoran Jankovic and the pharmacist – which is not just a sample, but a scandal and it should not happen in some normal state, and even less so should not fall – I open up, I believe that this explanation would not have occurred, there would have been no need. Now it's gonna happen twice. First, if we accept this authentic explanation, we will cover Judge Mojco Kocjančič. Since her decision is no longer a problem, because we need an authentic explanation, the matter is unclear. And when it is mentioned soon, I believe that very quickly, on what list of advancements, no one in this country will be able to tell her anything, because this National Assembly has decided that an authentic explanation is needed. No, Your Honor, at least 19 cases in this country are fully known where the court was treated quite differently; indeed, they were not so - called untouchable. And believe me, if there was any other case, not just Jankovic, on the wallpaper today, there wouldn't have to be any authentic explanation. By deciding to accept an authentic explanation, we will be able to cover the decision of the judge and all those involved. Another time. Mr. Zoran Jankovic will also find it difficult to read anything. Those videos will slowly disappear. People will forget. The matter went according to the law; it did not go because we had double standards, and that is all that will be forgotten. And for the third time, the worst part, it can introduce one dangerous practice. Just in case he's troublesome, but believe me, not for us who are in the opposition, but when it comes to coalition, we can find a hole and we'll need an authentic explanation. This is the way to allow judges to hold this country and citizens hostage. As they will please, they will do so, and we will adopt different proposals or conclusions for authentic explanations and everything will go on. Such ones will be rewarded for a reason, because they are gods, because they did not know how to decide in the case of Jankovic, even though we all know what happened. Being a poor judge, she really couldn't make up her mind and really bad. No, it's bad for the citizens who watch it, it's bad for the young people who watch it, it's bad for the mothers and the women who follow it, it's bad for you! Once again, the well-intention of the proposer is more than justifiable, even understandable, but believe me, the Secretary of State and his team would never have decided on an authentic explanation if the case concerning Zoran Jankovic were still open. And we wouldn't have finished the trial. But this matter is only more suitable for this story of Zoran Jankovic to be neatly cleaned under the rug. We expect soon on the MVK some decision on the progress of Mojca Kocjančič. Dear citizens and citizens, please follow the National Assembly and follow who is being rewarded in this country. For the time being, those who are contentious are still those who have violated human rights that violate legislation. But those who do well and actually want changes in this justice system, move away. Just remember the last decision, we need secret sessions for this, because you don't hope to do it publicly, when you clean up those who have the greatest reputation in this country and actually help make things change. Authentic explanation – yes, but remember, this is a big game in the background. I can't wait for a banker to finally be in court once again, except that there won't be any authentic explanation necessary there when the matter falls, because you too need to be protected; and this system protects.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u117	We are going to the conclusion of the debate, where a representative of the Government gets the floor if that is what he wants. Time has run out for the proposer's representative. So I was wondering if you might want to add something, Mr Secretary of State. Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will only make a brief comment that there will not be any listening and that there will be some interference with the performance, honourable Mr Logar. The fact is that you can also see from the reasoning of the Government and from a decision of the Constitutional Court that did not judge constitutionality or that it could not be unconstitutional, so not sufficiently clear, not sufficiently legible and not sufficiently specific, which is the subject of the proposed authentic interpretation; but was the subject of the decision of the first paragraph of Article 154; this is the first case. The second point, since it was clear, and this is also the argument of the Government that the purpose and meaning of these provisions, which are the subject of an authentic interpretation, is not the provision which is the subject of a constitutional decision, where it was found that, in a given interpretation, it can be constitutionally disputed, that is, the first paragraph, none of what is now the subject of an authentic interpretation, is entirely clear and logical that there was no need, given the long-standing practice, to respond in any way. And when there was a decision, first-degree, before it became legal, is – I will use the metaphor to make it easier for you to understand, because you seem to be extremely perplexed in the area of intellect and argument, but now I don't know if you have deepened or you don't understand it. It's like if we all know you're using a snow shovel when it snows, and you start throwing away; but you expect me to get snow before it snows. When a position has emerged in public at the professional level and also in the third branch of the Authority that the decision is also justified by reference to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, as it is said, refers to Article 154, paragraph 1, as a dispute, not to Article 154, paragraph 2, and not to Article 153, paragraph 4, which the Constitutional Court makes clear in its sentence also that they are specific, comprehensible and clear, then the question of interpretation and correct application is only a matter of interpretation. And because then there was a notoriety in the public that the judicial branch of authorities and individual experts had also been told; for personally we cannot, until the case is a legal issue, see the specific decisions, what you can see, because you have other powers within the commission of inquiry, how this decision was justified by the court or the judge and then the higher court. However, when it was clearly and publicly known that it was also justified by reference to this decision of the Constitutional Court, which is an important decision, it was clear that there could be an incorrect interpretation and an interpretation of the clear meaning and purpose of other provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, it seemed reasonable to point out that the proposed authentic interpretation was useful and welcome, but in the meantime it had already been submitted and we supported it for this reason, because there are clearly different doubts and there is a great risk that some courts or judges would be able to decide independently, independently. This must be respected, however, is the third branch of power, other than the purpose and importance of the legislator. So there is no reason to break the snow before it falls; and you expect it from us, it is unreasonable and I find such a debate unfair. When circumstances arise, however, it is logical to support, because there would be a great risk for other open cases, which you have also mentioned, and there could be similar decisions and would be contrary to public interest, as I have stressed, as reflected by the function of criminal proceedings. It would be contrary to the interests of the injured persons as parties to the proceedings, but they are not parties; and for this reason, it is important to support and remedy these risks, because the authentic interpretation, as the applicant has pointed out and is generally known, has been valid since the law was enacted, not from the moment the amendment of the law is adopted. So far, no one in Slovenia has questioned the purpose and significance of the application of these articles, it has been clear and obvious mainly with case law. Even if you remember, in the amendment to the KKP-N law, which was on the table, there was no mention of this at all, we have added to this decision of the Constitutional Court only the first paragraph, which speaks of the storage and storage of criminal files at a later stage of the proceedings. That's what I wanted to point out. We're practically not talking about the same things. Of course, it is also necessary to respect the third branch of power; you are essentially using tools when the time is right. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Your time is up. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, if I may suggest before you perform; we can give you another round and you can sign up if you like. We've got a time-sharing. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I note that there is still a desire for a debate, so I invite you to apply. The application shall be made. The Secretary of State may also apply if he so wishes. Dr. Ange Logar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you. This comparison with the shovel was not the best in place, and I will slightly complement it if we are already at the shovels, in one of the key cases that undermines the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia. This lex Jankovic is overthrown by the rule of law. The Secretary of State himself said that so far there has been no such case, with Mojca Kocjančič and Zoran Jankovic this case will appear. But if I'm painting with a shovel, if you know it'll snow on Monday and next Monday. Will you go snowing after Monday? You'll probably go. You will clear the way so that by next Monday the pedestrians can walk peacefully on the road. You have one of the judges in your office, if I am not mistaken – Mrs Pivk, who has relatively good connections with the judiciary. Anyone who asked a little questions about this decision by Judge Kocjančič said – I do not hope to predict, but I am afraid that the higher court will also attach this matter; that there is someone behind it. The appellant's Senate was also not an out-of-court Senate, but a Senate of the Supreme Court. Why? This is easier to predict in advance and also the composition of the Senior Senate, which confirmed this judgment, was relatively special. And if someone who is the guardian of the rule of law in this regard does not feel a threat to the rule of law, then I really don't know why we have a minister and why we have a secretary of state. He must prevent any possibility of an appearance of impartiality in the judiciary or do everything in his power not to do so. It was three months, two regular sessions of the National Assembly to do something about the Ministry of Justice; it was not because it was waiting for the next Monday to snow. Those who hunted and skated in the snow on the sidewalk because they didn't take off, but they said, "You know, because next week it will snow too, and there's no point in me breaking this snow to use a shovel. And then what would you say after the other Monday? After all, in March the snow will melt anyway, I don't have to use a shovel either. Because I doubt that you would use this institute if Nova Slovenije did not make an authentic interpretation of this proposal. I doubt they'd discuss this with me. I doubt that the Secretary of State would come with the words that this change is necessary and useful. No, without that change, it would work. In fact, it was a stick in a bicycle for you, which also gave you an excuse to justify, by supporting it, the conduct of Judge Mojce Kocjančič. And here I have to agree with my colleague Bah Žibert if this case hadn't been closed, so if the higher court hadn't decided yet, we wouldn't be discussing this in the National Assembly, because the coalition wouldn't want to move on. Two parties from this coalition are participating in a city coalition with Zoran Jankovic, and the Modern Centre Party conscientiously confirms all proposals, as proposed by the non-cooperational coalition party. And if the proceedings were probably not yet concluded, if the higher court had not yet decided, or if the extra-jury had decided to do so, then I would not have been discussed for as long as the Jankovic case was closed. Now that he's forgiven when the evidence's been erased, you have no problem. You are also pleased because you can say – indeed, Judge Kocjančič could not decide because this proposal is so ambiguous. I agree, however, and thank you for saying that this is not the same case as the case before the Constitutional Court. The media also wanted to make this spin so that those who demanded that constitutional judgment would be blamed for Jankovic’s release. If it snows, I usually start tearing up when it snows. I'm not waiting for the next week when the cold front is announced again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u121	Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know how this debate could have put a little pressure on the Secretary of State, because I don't usually hear him being offensive. Well, it was today. I must certainly take here to protect my fellow Member, Dr. Anget Logar, because you told him that things didn't get around or that things didn't get deep enough, which is the last thing I'd expect from you. I think that he is one of those Members who, in certain matters, has not only deepened in this national assembly, but in this country. And if we were on any other bodies that you run indirectly, then perhaps such angsts would bring a different country than we have at this moment. But we're going back. This snow painting was really over, and I'm gonna tell you why. If that were true what you said, then there would be no two more cases. On the basis of the questions sent by Angie Logar, asking how the court could decide differently on the transfer of documents, the Justice Minister stated that he could not be involved in these matters. At that time, we talked about how it was possible that such practices could be different and why there was no unification. So he didn't do anything. He didn't do anything at the time. I'm saying today I know why. Because he found himself in some writings or documents, and he probably knew that he would. Second, when one procedure was still under way, we were in the middle of a shovel and snow while it was still running, the minister said, "If it doesn't, heads will fly." He did not wait for the end of the procedure but said: “Now this is the case, but now something is wrong, and now things need to be looked at. He allowed himself, in the process, to preconceive that heads would fly. When are the heads going to fly; if it works in law or if they don't act in law? I don't know when this minister's head will fly because you have double standards. And in this case, the authentic explanation that will be put to the vote today is the most appropriate excuse for you not to act. The case of Janković fell, although in the most slippery and immoral area, somewhere else where taxpayers were injured, of course things were not closed or not; but this is a slippery area. Although we all know what happened, the case will now be well covered and our courts are doing great. But it's the National Assembly's fault because we don't have good legislation. It's our fault, so we have to have authentic explanations because we're adopting double laws. But we remember that when the Jankovic case falls; not when it begins. This is not the case with the coalition, which does not support any essential proposals of the opposition, both the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia. Ha, this time they've got a good thing going. But this time you're good at it, and that's rude. I believe in the proponent's well-intentionedness, I believe that they want to improve some things, but, unfortunately, until the rule of law is here and there will be no double criteria for anyone in this country, there will be no order and there will be no disorder everywhere. The next point we have is going to show us a lot of things. I hope that even when those before what time of justice, when we consider this report, we will not have any more authentic explanations. Let us show once in this country that we are indeed dealing with the issue and that this country is working in accordance with the legal order it has adopted. You, Madam Secretary of State, continue to tell your Minister not to boast here next time about how many laws he has passed, but to see that at least what has been adopted is respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u123	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u124	If Slovenia were normal and had a solid legal state, then the case of Zoran Jankovic could not have deviated from all the other cases. Ambassador Bah Žibert said she understood our intention; however, that acceptance of this authentic explanation could create the appearance of somehow covering the inappropriate functioning of Judge Kocjančič. I think the inappropriate action of Judge Kocjančič has already been covered by the Supreme Court. It's not an authentic explanation here. Only the judiciary has covered the inappropriate act of Judge Kocjančič. This example, however, has shown one thing: Obviously, real holes are found in the right people or things are interpreted in a way that the final result is the way an extremely influential person wants it. This was illustrated by the case of Zoran Jankovic. If we know that such a case exists, then I think that as legislators we owe it somehow to cover this hole. If we do not accept this authentic explanation, then this means that if we have now had 19 cases, when it has been decided differently from that of Zoran Jankovic, and then two such cases. What if, after a while, a dedicated person finds himself again when a judge is delaying to decide in the same way as was decided in the case of Zoran Jankovic?Oh, my God! He will most likely have very good excuses and at least a basis, because, at least according to him, there will be some jurisprudence in this area. And such a search for the path of certain judges to come to a precise goal is, of course, to be stopped by this authentic explanation. And I'm sure this authentic explanation can do that. This is also the whole purpose that we had in Novi Slovenija and which led us in the introduction of this authentic explanation. Because we were beyond all sanity limits, that there was a man who was in more than ten different trials and that in all trials there were miraculous judges and miraculous procedures for nothing to happen. This is no longer a matter of rationality and coincidence, but there are other things here. And at least we have to do what we can; others have greater responsibilities, greater opportunities. Discussions on long and wide why something has not been done before and should probably be justified, necessary; but today it is on the agenda and at least a step further will be taken if this authentic explanation is supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u125	I thank my colleagues and colleagues for the debate, and I conclude with this. We will decide on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation and on the text of an authentic interpretation, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 40th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 40. On the day-to-day basis, this is an interim report on a parliamentary investigation carried out in the field of detection of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sale and purchase of vital resistance. The interim report was submitted to the Council by the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and the purchase of vascular resistors. The interim report is public and will be considered by the assembly at a public meeting. The components of the interim report are also an Additional Interim Report, which takes into account the protection of personal data and is marked by the degree of confidentiality and bank secrecy in accordance with Article 125 of the Banking Act; and Article II. An additional interim report, which complies with the Secret Data Act, is marked with an INTERNAL level. In view of the above, the assembly, pursuant to Article 101(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, will consider those additional interim reports at a meeting closed to the public today, 30 minutes after the adjournment of this item in the public part of the meeting. All the debaters are so requested that you do not provide information from the Additional Interim Report and II in the public part of the meeting. Additional interim reports which are not available to the public. We are moving on to a debate on the Interim Report, the key findings and the proposals for conclusions to be held in public. I therefore call for the floor to be further explained by the representative of the applicant, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mrs Jelko Godec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. We therefore have before us the first interim report on the progress made so far by the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of venous braces. At the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Commission of Inquiry was determined in March 2016 by the Law on the Designation of Parliamentary Investigation and thus determined the purpose and scope of the investigation to determine the possible responsibility of the holders of public functions to participate in the preparation and implementation of the procurement procedure in the field of the acquisition of vascular resistances due to the suspicion of the presence of corruption, in view of the suspicion of the suspension of the duty to seek the responsibility of management staff for the management decisions to be involved in the acquisition of vascular support in institutions carrying out health activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Under the second point, it shall determine the possible responsibility of former and current public function holders in institutions carrying out health activities at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia, in connection with the sale and purchase of vein support. The third point is to determine how tax money is to flow through the supplier of medical equipment for the purpose of financing entirely other areas, namely the media; and to identify the consequences of the participation of institutions operating at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia, with Mark Medical, d.o.o., and the related financial shareholder KB 1909 from Italy and the officer of Mladina and Vega Finanz from Luxembourg. The investigation covered a period of time from 1. 1. 2013 until the start of the parliamentary investigative commission's appointment, this is until March 2016. All parliamentary parties are represented in the commission of inquiry, with seven members representing all parliamentary groups. The interim report was adopted by the Commission of Inquiry at its 27th meeting, on 10 October, unanimously, with all the votes cast, i.e. by six votes. At the time the commission of inquiry carried out its work, i.e. until the interim report, there were 25 regular and 14 emergency meetings, hearing 35 witnesses and conducting two meetings of witnesses. Certain Witnesses were also interviewed without public presence. Due to other information already provided by the Chair, the Additional Interim Report and II will be available. Additional interim report dealt with in closed work. In its work, the Commission had some problems with its conclusion. Some Members of a particular parliamentary group did not participate in the work itself, so there was also a lot of confusion. At this point, I would like to thank all the members who have contributed to the adoption on 10 October of the general conclusions and conclusions proposed by the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, which are also proposed to the National Assembly for confirmation. The joint interim findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which were adopted on the basis of the proposed evidence, the evidence produced, the witnesses interviewed, are as follows: that there is a suspicion that the defendants in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor in the years 2007 to 2016 would have damaged public funds and acted unlawfully and illegally; that there is a suspicion that those responsible in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor would have drawn up and executed public procurement contracts in 2007 and 2014 to carry out public procurement contracts which did not follow the basic principles of public procurement, and acted unlawfully and repeatedly in breach of the Public Procurement Act; that there is a suspicion that there would be a need for cartel negotiations between suppliers in Slovenia; that there is a suspicion that there is a possibility that there would be a number of responsibility in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor between 2007 and 2016; and that there would be a number of infringements which would have been between the suppliers of cord bonds in Slovenia to make payments available to the public authorities; and that there would have been a claim that there would have been a number of reposed-uptures in Slovenia. The Commission also proposes to investigate possible suspicions in the Republic of Slovenia, infringements of the European contract in the part of the competition rules, by limiting competition on the Slovenian market by the multinational Abbott in 2013, the criminal offence of money laundering through the acquisition and sale of ownership shares in Mark Medical, d.o.o., by KB 1909 in 2006–2015, tax evasion due to transfer prices in the chain of suppliers Mark Medical, d.o.o., and Emporio Medical, d.o.o., in 2003–06, to investigate possible suspicions that the money obtained from sales of vascular bonds should be used for the purchase of ownership shares of KB and 1909 in the company Distriest, d.o.o., d.o.o., which was owned by the owner of Mladina, d. d. d., and for its recapitalisation in 2007 to be obtained in the course of the capitalisation of money, d. d. A. in 2007-2015 and for the recapitalisation of companies in Italy and Slovenia. The overall general findings are based, as I said, on a witness hearing, on a lot of material being examined, and the testimony has also led to these general findings being written and also adopted. I would briefly highlight certain matters in the report, as the report is very extensive and it is difficult to explain each matter separately, perhaps more later in the debate itself. In its work, the Commission reviewed the material, heard the witnesses and reviewed certain laws in force in this area, namely the Public Procurement Act, the Penal Code, the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, the Prevention of Competition Act and so on; the Commission made significant points, by dividing the report into the implementation of public procurement orders for the purchase of vascular resistors in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor, then the issue of high prices of vascular resistors in Slovenia, the impact of multinationals on the Slovenian market, the conflict of interest and corruption risks in hospital workers, the participation of hospitals with suppliers, the business cooperation of Mark Medical and KB 1909 and the links of KB 1909 as owner of Mladina, d. d., and Mark Medicala, d. o. o. If I start in the execution of public procurement contracts for the purchase of venous cords in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor, I have already said that the Commission of Inquiry finds that the defendants in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor are to prepare public tenders or public procurements by not following the basic principles of public procurement, and the responsible are to participate in public procurement unlawfully, to act unlawfully and to repeatedly violate the Public Procurement Act. Individual responsible persons should violate the basic principles of the Public Procurement Act, namely the principle of cost-effectiveness and efficiency in the use of public funds, the principle of ensuring competition between tenderers, the principle of transparency and the principle of equality of tenderers. The documentation has been reviewed since 2003. However, it should be said that the Public Procurement Act entered into force in 2006 and since then we have looked more closely at all public procurement. From a joint examination and a hearing of witnesses for UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor, it is possible to say that public procurement with the expert commission has begun. During the testimony and examination of the documentation, it was expected that those who prepared the professional criteria would have been the heads of the catheter laboratories in Ljubljana Darko Zorman and later Dr Matjaž Bunc and in Maribor Dr. Kanič, helping to make public procurements written in such a way that public contracts were crushed. Those who know public procurement know what it is. However, in plastic terms, the venous support is defined by individual characteristics, such as the type of medicine, the amount of medicine, the construction of the vein support itself, thickness, length. The assemblies were written in such a way that only one supplier with a specific vascular support, such as the exact specification of the length of the vascular resistor or of a specific medicinal product, reported in a specific assembly. This has been confirmed directly or directly by the Head of Procurement of UKC Ljubljana, Mr Uranus and Dr. Night and Mr. Grievlje. The case ended in 2013, together, the contract in UKC Ljubljana was written in such a way that several suppliers with different vein braces could be registered in one set. At the time it was the first time that the contract in UKC Ljubljana was made in this part really transparent, while matters in Maribor continued, i.e. untransparent fragmentation of public contracts. Here there is a suspicion that this has been helped, once again, by the heads of the catheter labs and those doctors who participated in the preparation of the professional criteria. Later, on the basis of the documentation, it was also found that certain public invitations had already pre-recorded the doctor’s wishes, which vascular resistance should be obtained in a specific set. In one call for proposals in 2012, the price was also recorded in addition to the set, application, or wishes to be obtained from the vein support. Here we have found that there is a suspicion that the leaders of the procurement service, and perhaps also doctors, have already agreed in advance with the supplier at what price this vein support should have been obtained. There were other things that I will say later in the debate. Following the publication of the invitation to tender, the following anomalies appear. One-year contracts and annexes were concluded in a public contract. Interestingly, there has been a continuous overstretching of supplies in certain venous linings. For example, Mark Medical was agreed to obtain 2 000 pieces of a certain vascular support from 2010 to 2014; they acquired 2.2 times more and exceeded the annex or all contracts for more than 2 million 700. That means they've gone over shopping in this area. This occurred before, in the years 2007 to 2008, when it was stated that 450 items would be purchased, or a thousand, 500 others, and in fact acquired much more and exceeded the total public procurement in the years 2008 to 2010 by 2 million 900, that is to say little less than 3 million. It was found that in UKC Ljubljana there was a breach of the contract value of more than 6 million. The same was true in UKC Maribor, where there were minor excesses of contract values. The largest overrun occurred in the case of the purchase of Titan's veins, where the realisation was 1002% in 2014. So much for the public procurement review. Another matter that had been examined was that they had purchased vascular support via handrails in hospitals, i.e. without any contract. Here, however, the case is in such a way that vascular support was obtained which did not have a basis in the contract. This has also happened since 2007 and I will show only for 2012 and 2013. We know that public procurement must be published on the European portal when it has ordered annual value of more than 125 000 and 130 000. Here is an example of Bormia selling UKC Ljubljana in 2012 for EUR 164 000 or more; the UKC Ljubljana is expected to acquire more than 154 000 vascular support from Bormia in 2013. The same is true for Mark Medical, where in 2013 the value of the supply of vein support was little less than 400 000, i.e. without the publication of a public contract. This is noted from the documentation and there is suspicion that there has also been a violation of the Public Procurement Act. Next thing. Even in 2014, although they had already over-procurement and had not published public contracts in 2013, the same is true of Bormia, Mark Medical and PRO-GEM. These amounts are way out of line. Why this was happening, we've reviewed a number of things. One is that there is a suspicion that doctors for the accelerated purchase of vein support from suppliers Mark Medical, Bormia, VASC-MED and Animus have also obtained various material benefits, payments of different congresses not only for themselves and their education, but also for family members. The Investigative Commission has also been working to review the issue of high prices of venous cords. According to Dr. Fras from UKC Ljubljana, Mr. Lazarevic and Mr. Uranus from UKC Ljubljana, they also said they wanted to lower prices. They also acknowledged that prices in Slovenia were much higher than abroad. As an example, I only mention the period from February 2013 to September 2013, a comparison of the prices of vascular resistors. Those written in blue are comparable to the veins and you have it written down; the price of the Polish supplier, this is the last blue column, was 400 euros for one vein support and in Slovenia the prices were 976 euros. The green two are comparable, the first offering by the Polish supplier for EUR 433 in February 2013 and the price of the Slovenian supplier Mark Medical in September 2013 when the price was EUR 516. The following example also shows that the vascular resistance in Slovenia has been overpaid, however, is the case when Orsiro was standing in Ljubljana in April 2014 or in November 2013 more than 600 euros, while in April 2014 400 and immediately the following month 236 euros. This somehow indicates that the prices of the venous braces in Slovenia were high. Why were there high prices? Of course there's a number of reasons. Among other things, we have found that there are high margins for suppliers themselves, that some multinationals are also expected to place higher prices for Slovenia than for other countries. The third issue is the chain of suppliers, also identified by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. I think you already know that. A multinational sold a vein support like Mark Medical S.p. A. in Italy, this one has a subsidiary in Slovenia called Mark Medical and only then sells it to the hospital. A similar example is when we have Emporia Medical, which also has one intermediate article. The multinational sells to the company in Austria and then to the company in Slovenia and then to the hospital. But you should know that Mark Medical S.p. A. The parent company Mark Medicala from Slovenia and Newport Medical Handels from Austria are also connected to Emporia Medical, one way or another, family. We probably know Emporio Medical from another matter, Mrs Jurkovic's report in 2013, which simply did not bear the pressure of doctors as well, namely the demand for payments to speed up her sales. This is the part where we found that because of the promotion of sales and because of all the abnormalities that were encountered in the procurement process, there should also be bribery of doctors. Not only was it said to pay for material goods or to pay for congresses, but there was also supposed to be cash payments to individual doctors by suppliers, depending on the quantity of purchases, about six percent or more. So there are also suspicions of corruption, or all of these conclusions, which I initially said. At this point transfer prices should also be touched by points 3 and 4 of our report, which discusses the link between Mark Medicala from Slovenia and the Italian financial company KB 1909. Things are a little more complicated. You have to say it like this. Mark Medical was first established as Auremiana, d.o.o., in Sežana. I will show what ownership of this company was in 2006, when it falls into the commission of inquiry. Auremiana or Mark Medical, d.o.o., was owned by Vega Finanz, formerly Proteus from Luxembourg, from Slovenia until 2006. Proteus is then named Vega Finanz and owns 70 percent Auremiana. Some changes have taken place in 2006 or earlier, but the owner of Auremiana was Mark S. R.L., which is a parent Italian company; and the owner of this company is KB 1909. In 2007 changes will take place in this ownership of the Slovenian works Mark Medicala enters KB 1909 by buying from Vega Finance a 30% share of EUR 1 million. This happened in 2007. And then he sold that 30% a year later to his company Mark in Italy for 3 million. This difference, which occurs here; first buyback of KB 1909, is owned by Mark Medicala from Slovenia with 30%, buy back from Vega Finanz for a million euros and after a year and a half, after all their financial data, he sells to his subsidiary for 3 million. So the difference made in a year is 2 million 300. The link in these years was linked earlier when I explained that in the years 2007 to 2009 and 2010 Mark Medical had accelerated sales in Slovenia of vascular resistors, i.e. only through public procurement he exceeded more than 2 million and a half million, i.e. through orders. Here there is a suspicion that this money, which has also been made in such a way that the Public Procurement Act has been violated, has come exactly for such transactions. The same thing happens in 2012 when again KB 1909 buys a share of Vega Finanz for a little less than a million. That way we can suspect him rounding up the money again. In 2006, KB 1909 also took place, i.e. KB 1909 buying off Vega Finanz 51% of Distriest. If you look at the diagram, it's similar to the previous diagram. Safti is supposed to establish Vega Finanz, who establishes Distriest and becomes the owner of Youth. On the other hand, it is also connected to KB 1909. Things are a little bit complicated, but if you look at it, otherwise you can't see it on this scheme, KB 1909 is a group that has several areas in its work. Here I will show two areas controlled by KB 1909 by the end of 2015. KB 1909 is a financial company from Italy whose owners were NLB, Trinko Fund and other shareholders. KB 1909 is owned by Mark Medicala in Italy and partly owned by Mark Medicala in Slovenia. The profit that was generated in medical work – you should know that the medical part in KB 1909 should always make profits which are good profits – of course it ran to the owners. The owners were Mark Medical S.p. A. and KB 1909 and, on the other hand, Vega Finanz from Luxembourg, which we still do not know who owns. Although Luxembourg has been asked by the Commission of Inquiry to state who owns it, if it is still linked to Safti, this is not a matter to discuss today. The profits and the money went to the owners. On the other hand, KB was 1909 31. 12. 2014 owner of Distriest, which is 57.3% owner of Mladina, and then Transmedia, also owner of Mladina. Why am I explaining this? Perhaps because we also heard Mr Peric, who is the head of the management of KB 1909, and Mr Repovž, who said so during the investigative commission. In 2007, KB bought Mladina in 1909. In what way? KB 1909 – but it was expressed on two sides, that is, Mr Peric and Mr Gregor Repovža – borrowed money or credited Mr Repovž with 200 000 euros and then bought the share from another company and this share in Mladina immediately, immediately, one or the next day, we do not know, but it was said immediately, handed over KB 1909. Here we ask ourselves or are also asking questions and ask the competent authorities to investigate this transaction, why KB 1909 did not buy the Youth itself, but had an intermediary of Mr Repovž. It will be up to the investigating authorities themselves to investigate these matters. Later in the discussion, we just want to show or point to these suspicions of transactions. I want to end up saying it like this. In the light of those common interim findings of the Commission of Inquiry, by a decision of the National Assembly, if the conclusions are adopted, the Commission of Inquiry shall, according to the record, send a notice of the disclosure of possible suspected criminal services for several natural and legal persons. According to the report, we are sending a notice of the declaration of possible suspicions of criminal services against mags. Bojana Urana, Dark Zorman, Dr Matjaž Bunca, Dr Vojko Kanič, because there are suspicions and indications of offences under several articles of the Penal Code; that there is an unjustified use of foreign property, a criminal offence of fraud, a criminal offence of unlawful acceptance of gifts, a criminal offence of tax evasion, a criminal offence of abuse of an official position or of official rights, a criminal offence of damage to public funds, a criminal offence of unknown work in the service, a criminal offence of taking bribes and a criminal offence of wrongful testimony or a guilty confession. Against Dr. Dragan Kovacic, there are suspicions and indications of the following offences: the offence of unlawful acceptance of gifts, the criminal offence of tax evasion, the crime of abuse of official status or official rights, the criminal offence of taking bribes, the criminal offence of false testimony or false confession. Against the Magus. Simona Vrhunc and Dr. Gregor Pivc, because there are possible suspicions and indications of the following offences: the crime of abuse of official status and official rights, the crime of damage to public funds, the criminal offence of a misdemeanour at work and the crime of taking bribes. However, those possible offences will have to be demonstrated by a further investigation by the competent authorities. However, in cases of confirmed suspicion of such offences, a criminal complaint may be brought against those natural and legal persons, depending on the findings of the competent authorities. In the light of the material examined and expressed by the witnesses heard, the Commission proposes that the competent authorities investigate the possible crime of abuse of position or trust in economic activity, the offence of unlawful giving of gifts and the criminal offence of damaging public funds and bribery for several legal persons, namely, those responsible in the company Mark Medical, d.o.o., responsible in the company Bormiamed, d.o.o., responsible in the company VASC-MED and Animus, d.o.o. The competent authorities should also investigate the possible suspicion of a criminal offence restricting competition by those responsible in Castor and Salus; and the criminal offence of money laundering, the criminal offence of tax evasion, the criminal offence of damage to public funds by those responsible for the business of KB 1909. If you don't mind, I'd like to read the conclusions we're proposing to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u127	Mrs. Godec, we can go very fast because we're already a minute in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you so much for that. We are proposing eleven conclusions to the National Assembly, which means I will not read everything. The National Assembly shall order the Commission of Inquiry [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u129	Mrs. Godec, I'm sorry to interrupt. If you read everything, we're already strong over time. I suggest we proceed in the debate, please, because we've been here for a minute and twenty seconds in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u131	Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u132	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats co-proposed the establishment of an investigative commission to identify abuses in the area of the purchase and sale of vein support. For decades, irregularities have been taking place in this area, and in this way significant damage has been caused to certain actors, while others have gained considerable wealth. There's no epilogue yet. The Commission, which was established last May, prepared an interim report last October, which is partly public, partly bearing the mark INTERNAL. A great deal of work has been done to work together to get data on persons and connections between them, which have unfairly exhausted the Slovenian health system. The interim report identifies the suspicion of corruption and we hope that the law enforcement authorities will respond and cooperate accordingly. We were disappointed by the fact that state institutions did not play their role. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that Slovenia is a state of law. In the light of the work done by the Commission, it appears that the competent institutions responsible for the supervision of the functioning of the public health authorities have failed to do their work. The Special Prosecutor's Office under the leadership of Hari Furlan and the National Investigation Office under the leadership of Dark Majhenič should be highlighted in particular. It is a worrying fact that they have submitted that they have investigated the purchase of vein braces but have not identified the suspicions of the crime and have only concluded that individual deviations have been detected. It is in the public interest to determine who the people involved in individual irregularities are and to resolve them with important functions and positions in the health sector; not to continue to remain in important positions and to decide on the health of all of us. These individuals undermine the reputation of the medical profession, doctors, lower the confidence of citizens in the Slovenian health system and medical care and constantly ensure that the costs of the supplies are too high, the services provided are too expensive, the waiting periods are too long, and the health system is expensive and too low. It is in the public interest to determine why multiple payments have been made to the supply of vein support and why management and procurement services do not seek to obtain material at lower prices. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to ensure that such things never happen again and that the holders of public functions responsible for financial and moral damage in Slovenian health care are also responsible. Otherwise, we rightly expected that the current government and the minister, who has a strong backseat in the Prime Minister and has managed to maintain this position despite two interpretations, would try to regulate the situation, but failed us. The skeletons are falling out of the health cabinets. We can rightly fear that the veins are not the only material that is suspected of corruption. In Novi Slovenije we will support the conclusions of the Interim Report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u133	Mr Miha Kordiš has the floor to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. As is known, we have not supported the establishment of investigative commissions in Levica under the leadership of the Slovenian Democratic Party. That the Slovenian Democratic Party is conducting an investigation into banking crime or medical corruption is something like the Social Democrats conducting an investigation into TES 6. So it's about as if the criminal proceedings against the defendant were conducted by his accomplices and related persons. We all know that most of the bad credits in Slovenian banks were created during the first Janša government, and it is now clear that the most overestimated life support was between 2006 and 2014, again in the time of the two Yanša governments, which had a direct impact on hospital management across the worlds. It has been clear from the outset that the SDS will use the Commission to relieve itself of any responsibilities and blame its political opponents as a whole. It was already clear in advance that the SDS will use the results of the investigation to promote the privatisation of the public health system, so the socialists did not actively participate in the work of these two investigative commissions and we will not support their recommendations. These recommendations are selective and are unilateral. Simply put, these recommendations are propaganda documents, on the one hand intended to redirect the blame to the SDS, which is largely responsible or co-responsible for the health and banking system, and on the other the attack on public health or public health as such. One of the biggest errors of Cerara's coalition and SMC is that the SDS allowed the establishment of an investigative commission on the bank hole, because without their votes this commission would not exist and then allowed the SDS to abuse these investigative commissions. In this way, the current coalition has contributed to the dissemination of disinformation and to the additional discreditation of the investigative commission's institute, which has changed into a common facsimile news machine. The coalition, by allowing the abuse of parliamentary investigations, actively participates in the functioning of the SDS fake news propaganda machine, which tries to create for society a harmful interpretation of two major social problems of our time, this is about the banking crisis and the health crisis. Instead of the banking crisis being a starting point for a radical change in the functioning of banks and economies, it has become just another quasi proof of old Jancist killings about the udbomafi, the Kučan clan and similar conspiracy theories. Instead of revealing overpayments of medical materials as a starting point for a radical change in public procurement, and not only in public health, but in the whole country at all, it is being misused to deal with one of the few remaining critical media in the state of Mladina. Well, this is exactly what the SDS is doing, which has received substantial funding from Hungarian companies associated with Viktor Orban for the operation of its television. The coalition, by its approach to the SDS investigative commissions, contributed to the obvious manipulations becoming a normal part of the political struggle. And the coalition has, in its perseverance, allowed this operation to become a normal part of the management of such important parliamentary committees as the Defence Committee and the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. In short, coalition colleagues and colleagues contributed to the blurring of the line between normal political life and manipulation, which is like an ordered schedule for the operation of the SDS propaganda apparatus. While it is clear to us socialists why liberal parties, namely SMC, Desus and Social Democrats, allow such a situation. Because they themselves are not able to offer alternatives, not in the field of the economy and not in the field of the social state. We can see how liberal governments have been dealing with bank resolution in the last major capitalist crisis. First of all, the Borut Pahor government underestimated the crisis in the banking system, even admitted Borut Pahor himself, because it simply did not understand its systemic nature, which was further exacerbated by Janša's government's Taiwanese-capital-friendly operation. Then the liberal government of Alenka Bratušek, after the dictatorship of the troika, was too expensive to recover with three billion public funds, and at the same time promised the European Commission that the banks, i.e. the banks that had already begun to collect our public money, would be sold out to the European Commission. In short, she promised to sustain effectively bank losses and privatize profits or, yes, privatize them. The government of Mira Cerar continued with the same policy when it sold NKBM, privatised Ljubljana Airport and several other companies. In short, liberal parties have not been able to offer any alternatives in the economic field, and the same applies to the social state and the health system. With exceptionally certain benign and unfavourable attempts by ordering Cerar's coalition, there is no real solution for reducing the prices of medical materials. In the healthcare system, we still have amphibians, unjustified concessions and the abolition of supplementary insurance, it seems, we will not be able to wait for this mandate. Legalized corruption insists briefly. We are convinced that the prices of medical materials could be substantially reduced by removing intermediaries who have embarked on a journey between public hospitals and manufacturers of medical materials. The main causes of excessive material prices are not corruption, but the system of high margins or commissions charged by intermediaries. This mediation system can be abolished in two ways – by banning mediation or by setting up a special public undertaking. Unfortunately, legal intermediaries cannot be banned because they would conflict with European law, which clearly protects the interests of capital hidden behind the winged free economic initiative. The public company is therefore the only possible solution here, and it is not even the worst or the best solution, because it would drive intermediaries out of the market and thereby significantly reduce the material costs of our hospitals. How would we achieve that? The first advantage of a public company is to supply all Slovenian hospitals and could choose from this title quantitative discounts from producers, which smaller suppliers cannot. The second advantage of a public undertaking is that it would have lower operating costs, among other things because it would be subject to salary restrictions and other benefits. However, the third and essential advantage of a public undertaking is to operate in a non-profit manner. Thus, any surplus in this company would immediately return to the public health system and could use the surplus created to modernise health facilities. We have proposed this solution in Levica a long time ago. A similar proposal was also proposed by the Commission to prevent corruption. But these proposals had no impact on the report of the Commission of Inquiry or on the work of the Government or the Ministry of Health. In truth, such a response or non-response is expected. Politicians privatising banks, businesses and even strategic infrastructure will not, of course, set up public companies. Exceptions here are companies such as the Slovenian Forest, d. o. o., which is neither profitable nor works in the public interest, but more importantly in the feudal interest of the parties which have established it in the first place or in this particular case of the Social Democrats. We are convinced by the Socialists that unjustifiable medical commissions and corruption can only be abolished by a public company for the purchase of medical materials. All other public procurement measures will then be circumvented by intermediaries. The measures proposed by the SDS in the decisions submitted will not contribute to this at all. We also doubt that the material could be used to prosecute persons suspected of corruption simply because the report does not reach the minimum evidentiary standards, so there is no reason to support the report and the proposed conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u135	Mr. Marijan Pojbič wanted to proceed. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr Vice President. I think that this gentleman, who has just spoken here about a pay phone, should present the position of the United Left or the Left, however, not talk about all the parties and I don't know what he was saying. I think that this was out of the context of presenting the position of the Group of Members, so of course I expect you, Mr Vice-President, that the second time someone in this way discusses the speaker, when he represents the position of the Group of Members to remind him to focus on what should be the position of the Member. Secondly, when you discuss from the bench, and secondly, when you present the position of the Member, this attempt to discuss all other parties and everything else that is wrong, I think this is unacceptable and I will say extremely inappropriate to present the views of the Group. [[…]] And one more thing, you defend here from the entire Slovenian public of the lump, and those who are guilty of the situation, including what we heard today about the Youth and the Repovs and so on – I do not condemn him until it is proven that anything is wrong. But I think that defending this story from the Slovenian public in this way, because it has all the clues, I will say, corrupt and not yet know what kind of action, but, to put it mildly, unacceptable, extremely rude and even perverse action.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u137	Before I give my answer, I give my word for another procedural one. Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you. The position of the Levica Group has been specifically given and has been politically pointed out in a way or position that we have been defending since the first day since we have been working here, both with the investigation committee for the acquisition of vascular cords and with the other SDS investigative commission, i.e. in the rehabilitation of banks. I think all the conclusions and views I've made as a pay phone stand out in general. I mean, it's clear to everyone what the SDS is really doing in these investigative commissions. They are not investigating honestly what has really happened and what has happened, but they are merely trying to dissuade suspicion and their own bad conscience from their party and to exorcise and exaggerate the blame on their political opponents. That's what's really wrong here. You know that it is only in this mandate that Levica has come to the National Assembly, that she does not have any dirty hands, that she has not been involved in any of these corrupt bulky business activities and that we do not need to defend ourselves here in any way as to what kind of Desus or SMC — pardon, not SMC, Desus or SD — but it is correct to point out that the whole political class has been involved in all these works, regardless of the color of the ties they wear. And the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Kordish. I am trying to understand your point of view, but this time my thinking is closer to Mr Pojbič's thinking, because it is clear that we have an opportunity here to express our views and to question and open the question and identify ourselves here. But no matter what you agree, I suggest we proceed with our next position. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Mr. Lye, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u140	Honourable Presidents, dear colleagues and colleagues! Obviously, this topic is not as important as some think, for now I will present my position practically in front of an empty hall. But I'm still going to do my best, and I'm going to present it to you as best I can. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are pleased to support the establishment of an investigative commission. Last but not least, this interim report, which is extremely extensive to say, covers about 400 pages. A lot of quality work has been put in, and I am proud that, on behalf of our Group of Members, I can also participate in all these investigative processes. It is a very important fact that if this Commission of Inquiry had not been set up, this area would have remained unexplored, and would certainly have stuck somewhere below a drawer. This can be reinforced by the fact that the area of the ventricles has been investigated by the Special Prosecutor's Office as well as by the National Investigation Office, and, if we believe it or not, the matter has ended by the National Investigation Office preparing a report. That means he's finished his investigation. Of course, I must point out that they found nothing and were pleased with it. Of course, we have not been satisfied and we have taken concrete action within our powers of work, and this is the result of an interim and additional report. This has provided us with quality evidence, in which specific cases have also been processed. The Commission has also drawn up specific guidelines for the competent investigative bodies in the context of these interim reports and I hope that this time they will also do their job so that this will not happen again, as we have seen. At that time, at one of the meetings of the Commission of Inquiry, I specifically asked, as a witness to the NPU, why they did not come to concrete conclusions, results. This area has been called upon to be extremely difficult to investigate, to be humanely fed and to have priorities - I wonder what in this case. Apparently, they didn't think this thing was good enough, but it seems to us. And I hope that in this case, now that they have in hand such quality prepared material that they will no longer refer to all these unjustifiable factors, the reasons. Let me say, as a final thought, that it is a shame, that in this case too, the rule of law and all control systems have been cancelled, so internally so that we must be aware that all these public institutions that are under investigation, in addition to the management authorities, not only the supervisors, but also the management authorities, also have their own saints. I wonder, is that not the real reason for the political responsibility of all these presidents and members of public institutions in these institutions? They're being set up by politics! This means that political actors should also be politically accountable. At least politically. The competence of the Commission is not to identify specific crimes, I will say, offences. For this there are appropriate institutions. We in the parliamentary group will certainly support and confirm all the proposed conclusions, 11 conclusions, as well as the general conclusions that will be welcome for further investigation procedures. Let me make one more point. Maybe the cameras do their job or something. Because if they are as effective competent authorities as the Commission, then I can be sure of that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u141	Ms Vesna Vervega will present the position of the MP Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honors are here! In the media, the venous cord overpayment affair escalated with the disclosure of the ExtraVisor Group at the end of 2016, which revealed to the public the comparison of prices by hospitals, the analysis of price relationships and a number of data on suppliers and manufacturers in health care. The request for the establishment of an investigative commission to identify abuses in the field of sales and purchase of vascular resistances, chaired by the SDS Group of Members, was supported in March 2016 and covers the period from 2003 until the establishment of the Commission. During the year and a half of the work, the parliamentary commission, through the conduct of investigative preparatory actions, carried out 35 hearings, as we have heard, and dealt with the vast amount of material obtained, and in fact found that the work of the responsible persons in public institutions and by suppliers in the field of sales and purchases of venous cords in the past is questionable mainly from the point of view of legality. It follows from the hearings of the representatives of the National Investigation Office and the Special Prosecutor's Office that the investigation of this case at the NPU began in 2013 on the basis of an anonymous letter, prepared a report in 2015 but intensified the work in the second half of 2016 – i.e. after the establishment of the Parliamentary Commission – and that at the Specialized State Prosecutor's Office they deal with corruption in the health sector and that they are in the phase of forecasting procedures. The Commission also adopted a decision to forward the confirmed minutes to the National Investigation Office. Of course, the main purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is, in essence, to seek the responsibility of the holders of public functions, which is to participate in the preparation and implementation of procurement procedures in the field of sales of vascular cords, as set out in the Act. However, despite the efforts made to investigate alleged political actors, we have not yet come forward. I am confident and I hope that the priority of the next part of the Commission of Inquiry will be to this end. On the issue of corruption in the procurement of medical material, the former ministers we have heard highlighted the following: the Ministry has limited opportunities to fight corruption; public procurement is one of the effective tools for lowering prices in maintaining the same quality of the material, but there is a major problem of procedural barriers to the execution of public procurement; the publication of the prices of medical and technical material or the public register of prices for each embedded material is required; professional standards are needed; common public procurement and system-legislative solutions are essential for combating corruption. The prices of vascular resistors have significantly begun to decline since 2014. Common public procurements, which are considered to be good practice, to avoid partial negotiation and resulting overpayments, have taken place intensively during this mandate and have brought large health savings in a number of areas, indicating that this practice should also be extended to the purchase of medical material, certainly vascular restraints. Of course, all procedures were under way following the disclosure of the venous cord overpayments, including the execution of a general public contract for this particular area. The procurement procedure was carried out by the Ministry of Public Administration, which, following a review of all tenders, concluded that none of the tenders complied with all the requirements and conditions of this contract. The reasons for excluding all tenders were primarily higher than the allowed or non-fulfilment of the condition of the randomised study. It should be noted that the condition of the maximum acceptable prices has been clearly defined, with a certain amount and a clear definition that an offer which does not meet these conditions will be rejected. The Ministry of Public Administration submitted a complaint to the Agency for the Protection of Competition due to suspicion of cartel bargaining, but failed to establish the reason for the initiation of the procedure. One of the unelected tenderers submitted an audit request and the documentation was also assessed by the State Audit Commission. In view of the above, it is expected that a new procurement procedure for vascular resistors will have to be carried out after the decision has been made, but some doctors have observed that the failure of the invitation to tender has had positive effects since the prices of vascular resistors have already decreased. We have also pointed out that technical specifications need to be harmonised, so standardisation should be made and that the actual needs of individual hospitals should be taken into account in order to ensure uniform accessibility to potential providers. All these procedures have also occurred in the case of venous braces. In addition to the above, the Ministry of Health, together with the Association of Health Institutes of Slovenia, established the Intravisor base for the procurement of medicines and devices to the public health institution. This allows for access to prices for medicines and medical devices purchased by hospitals, and it is the duty of hospitals to check the prices achieved in the database before carrying out the public procurement procedure. I am of the opinion that the chapter of the interim report, which discusses violations of legislation in public institutions, is correctly written and that is why I have also supported the interim report. However, I expressed my concerns about some common interim findings and conclusions at the two further discussions of the interim report. These are concerns about the kind of uniqueness that the interim report mentions the names of suspected crimes or that no complaints or complaints have been made, as the report does contain specific cases of evidence indicating the suspicions of criminal services. The next point I have expressed is, in general, concerning some of the health value judgments, although the case is being investigated by the vascular resistance, as regards the terminology used by law enforcement authorities or judicial authorities in their records; regarding the content of certain decisions relating to the proposal to institutions which are independent or independent in their operations to report on the cases in question together with their regular annual report. I am thinking of the State Audit Commission and the Court of Auditors, since the Presidents of both institutions have not yet been heard by the Commission. I believe that, during today's debate, the President of the Commission of Inquiry will also provide the National Assembly with more detailed explanations in this regard. Finally, I would just like to say that at the beginning of the mandate we promised people that in health policy we would follow the interests of the patient, where there will be no room for tolerance for such stories as have happened in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u143	Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to everyone again! The fact is that corruption in Slovenian health has deep roots and is still growing. It was quite interesting to hear earlier the position of colleague Miha of the Left when he said that we are guilty in the Slovenian Democratic Party of the health system, as it is. Look, in our Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, to the same situation as in health care and corruption, we have been pointing out since the beginning of this mandate. On the subject of health corruption in the SDS Group, we have convened at least three meetings and proposed certain conclusions, but, dear colleagues from the coalition, you have not adopted one of our conclusions and confirmed it, despite the fact that you have yet to agree with us in your discussions. Thank God, however, our proposal to set up an Investigative Commission to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of venous braces was adopted. As early as 2012, there were louder warnings that vascular resistors are obtained in Slovenia at much higher prices than in foreign markets. That corruption is a strong preoccupation of the Slovenian health system, media and individuals employed in health care have also been alerted. In the last year, several public statements were made at the meetings of working bodies right here in the National Assembly on this subject; it is said, on the subject of corruption. Well, and here, somehow, we all have the most in mind the statement of the former V.D. Director of UKC Ljubljana at a meeting of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, at which the lady told us that she knows about companies and individuals who exhaust Slovenian health care for personal interests and the interests of certain groups. During the work of this commission of inquiry, the hypothesis of corruption in Slovenian health care was only confirmed. The commission of inquiry examined several areas in its work, and it primarily began with the hypothesis that the walls were overpaid. On the basis of the documents collected in the proceedings and on the basis of the witness statements, the Commission found that the vascular resistance in Slovenia was expected to be more than 5 times higher in 2013 than the known data from abroad as well as in 2014, according to the prices of producers on the foreign market. It follows that in UKC Ljubljana and Maribor alone, approximately EUR 5.8 million should be saved on vein support in 2012-2013, provided that they are, of course, obtained at comparable prices on the European market. If we look at the fact or business of UKC Ljubljana in connection with the purchase of vascular resistors. In the course of its review of the UKC Ljubljana documentation and the hearing of witnesses, the Commission found that there was a suspicion that tenders by the contracting authority should be arranged in such a way as to artificially restrict individual assemblies to a specific supplier by means of professional characteristics by the contracting authority. As a result, this would lead to the fact that only one supplier was registered in certain compartments, which, of course, corresponded to a specific type of vascular resistance of a particular manufacturer and thus a specific supplier. Dr. Marko Noč said in connection with the preparation of the invitations before the Commission: “I would somehow give a general principle here, which I noticed on most of the invitations to tender – that the invitation to tender is a farce because it is broken down into so many categories that each category on the basis of this description is assigned the characteristics to an individual, so that this monopolist is a monopolist, and whatever price he sets, the matter will go through.” End of quote. The alleged suspicion and testimony were also confirmed by Blaž Antavlje. I will quote again: “It’s like Dr. Night said. You take the box, you look at the specification, the characteristics of the stent, and you write enough exact conditions, the professional conditions that are the basis for the invitation to tender." End of quote. So, for a specific supplier. That practice was also confirmed at the hearing by the mag. Bojan Uran, Head of Procurement Service at UKC Ljubljana. Another time. On the basis of the documentation and testimony obtained, it remains suspected that the head of the procurement service should personally call on suppliers to apply for a specific invitation to tender and also agree with suppliers on the prices of individual types of vein support. Head of the supply service mag. At the hearing on the above-mentioned statement, Uranus said, I will quote: “I was able to get this Pole to sign up for our invitation.” End of quote. Third conclusion on public tendering. The suppliers are expected to influence the later decision of the tendering commission for the purchase of vascular resistors through the head of the purchasing service, as confirmed by the President of the invitation to tendering commission UKC Ljubljana. Of course, it does not need to be emphasized that in all these three cases there is at least a suspicion of non-transparency with a view to limiting competition in public procurement. There is also a suspicion of cartel arrangements with regard to invitations to tender at UKC Ljubljana, as confirmed by a supplier’s representative. On the basis of its testimony, suppliers should agree between themselves not to compete on individual public contracts. So they split the market, one sale in Ljubljana, another sale in Maribor. Next. There has also been an overstatement of contractual quantities or value in the purchase of vascular restraints, and financial resources should not have been provided in advance. The Head of Procurement of UKC Ljubljana testified before the Commission that he was aware of this, but of course he did not react. The UKC Ljubljana has acquired from Mark Medical, d.o.o. supplier, in the framework of three public invitations to purchase vascular resistors in 2008-2014 several types of vein support, as planned. Overpayment in terms of contractual value is expected to be EUR 6.3 million. If we follow the invitations to tender, the UKC Ljubljana has also purchased vascular cords without publication on the public procurement portal, which is supposed to exceed the thresholds under the Public Procurement Act. [[…]] The total value of these contracts without publication on the portal for 2007-2014 amounts to €4.1 million. In doing so again comes out supplier Mark Medical, d.o.o., totalling EUR 1.8 million and Bormia, d.o.o., totalling EUR 475 000. In addition, the purchases of vascular cords by order exceeded the legal limits laid down in the Public Procurement Act. The Commission of Inquiry also found that approximately 130 vein braces were missing in UKC Ljubljana. There were 130 venous braces missing. The question is, where are these venous braces? The price for one vein was then about 1,000 euros. 130 life support amounts to 130 000 euros; 130 000 euros in tax money. Is it possible that the same story as the UKC Maribor happened with these braces? I guess it's not just me that's asking. Dr Kanič of UKC Maribor testified before the commission of inquiry that he had handed two stents to a Serbian doctor because he had asked him for two stents. This is said to be a service by Dr Kanič to a colleague from Serbia. Two stents again amount to 2,000 euros. Two stents for a favor, 2,000 euros for a favor. It is also interesting that some suppliers selected in the framework of the tender for the purchase of vascular resistors have not reached a contractual value and that is why some suppliers have even withdrawn from the contract because they only had costs, nothing else. Of course, all of this raises the question why companies have failed to give a warning to those responsible in public institutions. Or might they not have felt obliged to point out that there was a breach or breach of public procurement? Therefore, there is a suspicion of guilt on both responsible persons within public health institutions and companies, according to the supplier of the veins. Why did these violations occur, and why was no one alerted to this violation? Of course, there is a suspicion that this would be in the interest of some employees in UKC Ljubljana on the one hand and in the interest of suppliers on the other. Suppliers are expected to provide the UKC with the payment of education, professional travel, congress attendance and so on, suppliers should cover the costs of different trips or holidays for doctors and their family members. In some cases, however, it is suspected that suppliers should hand over various material goods to those who decide to purchase or even direct money to the bank accounts of private medical companies. In some cases, however, watch out, and in some cases there is a suspicion that money should be served just like that; at home on hand. On the other hand, suppliers should have some of this. High prices of venous braces, high margins and high profits. The Commission of Inquiry found that the most frequent infringements occurred in the company or business company Mark Medical, d.o.o. The multinational Abbott is a producer of vein resistors, and Mark Medical is a supplier of her veins for the Slovenian market. Following the testimony of some witnesses before the commission of inquiry, there is a suspicion that there will be a so-called segmentation of the market by the multinational Abbott, which is expected to generate different prices for the Slovenian market, of course higher prices of the ventricles than for other markets in EU countries. This was also noted by the Commission in order to prevent corruption. In doing so, the multinational is in breach of international treaties in the area of free trade and the movement of goods and services. On the basis of the evidence, the Commission of Inquiry found that in 2012 the purchasing service, at Blaž Anvljet's initiative, would have received an offer to purchase the life support of the multinational Abbott from the Polish supplier at lower prices than was then the case with the Slovenian market. But the multinational Abbott, after two months, somehow stopped the sale of the Polish supplier of vascular resistors in Slovenia. Thus, there is a suspicion that the multinational Abbott should stop the sale of a Polish supplier in Slovenia by acting in a manner that prevents and restricts competition in the EU's internal market. There is also suspicion that a representative of Mark Medical, d.o.o., would help to maintain their dominant position on the Slovenian market. A representative of Abbott and a representative of Mark Medical, d.o.o., testified before the commission of inquiry in this regard that the price of the Polish supplier for the same vascular resistance should be higher than two, because of the possibility of counterfeiting the vascular resistances sold by the Polish supplier in Slovenia or because the Polish supplier was not supposed to be notified to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines. Although the Competition Protection Agency of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the matter, the epilogue or conclusion did not take place. The testimony of Dr. Zorman on the commission of inquiry is also interesting in this regard. On the question asked the president of the commission of inquiry, whether he thinks the Poles have repacked the stents, Dr. Zorman said, quote: “Abbott has repacked because you have found out nicely. Abbott put the old generation in a new box.” End of quote. With this, Dr. Zorman accused the multinational of repacking the venous braces, the weaker the venous braces in a box with a name that represented a newer product. Of course, the Commission of Inquiry again questioned why the infringement and all of these acts occurred in the case of the supplier Mark Medical, d.o.o., who had the largest proportion of sales of vascular cords in UKC Ljubljana. The supply of vascular restraints by Mark Medical is expected to be a 50.28 % share in UKC Ljubljana between 2006 and 2016. Mark Medical in UKC Ljubljana recorded the biggest jump in revenues from sales of vascular cords in 2007-2008, with an increase of more than half a million euros. Such profit is expected to be generated by allegedly selling past public contracts and can also be achieved by increasing sales through contracts on public contracts. The largest share of UKC Ljubljana’s sales was reached by Mark Medical in 2009, amounting to 91.4%. There is a suspicion that in 2011-2014 UKC Ljubljana, without a public contract from Mark Medical, would supply a total of EUR 918 000. In 2010-2014, however, in the context of public procurement, he exceeded the purchase of vascular cords totalling around €3.4 million. It is interesting to note that Mark Medical in UKC Ljubljana is expected to have a share of sales of vascular resistors in 2014, according to May 2014, only 28.77%, while maintaining a high financial share. The Commission of Inquiry found that Mark Medical from Slovenia had his parent company Mark Medical in Italy. By the end of 2015, Mark Medical Italy was also part of KB 1909's financial group, based in Italy's Gorica, which was registered as a financial holding company. The owner of Mark Medical was also Vega Finanz in Luxembourg, founded by Safti. The profits from Mark Medicala's profits are expected to run into Vega Finanz Luxembourg, the so-called tax oasis, and KB 1909. The owner of KB 1909 also owns Mladina, d. o. o. Today the ownership of Mladina, d. d., is divided into several legal entities. And look, Prime Minister Denis Tavčar is also a member of the management board KB1909 and the President of the supervisory board of the Youth Boris Peric is the president of the management board KB1909. The report of the investigative commission on the basis of the testimony shows that there is a suspicion that KB1909 should purchase the shares of Mladina, d. d., in 2007, says exactly when Mark Medical recorded the biggest revenue jump, with the help of Greg Repovž, who was the editor-in-chief of the newspaper Mladina at the time. KB1909 is therefore to be credited to Repovža, who bought the stake in Mladina from the sale of Falcone s.a.h., and immediately sold the purchased share to KB1909, which is to be a real buyer. On the Commission's question, how KB1909 is related to Youth, Boris Peric answered at the hearing, quote: “Yes, we have reached shares in Youth through two procedures; one part we have bought from other shareholders, some of the other shareholders, and one part we have recapitalised, I think it was 2007.” End of quote. It is therefore clear from Boris Perica's testimony that KB1909 has credited the editor of Mladina Repovža for the purchase of the stake. Such purchases and sales of shares in Youth are expected to take place because, according to Repovža’s testimony, he himself is supposed to be the guarantor of the agreed price. However, the credit granted by KB1909 to Repovž is to be secured by his personality according to Repovje’s words. Protected by his personality, this reminds us of a mayor in Ljubljana. According to Perica, youth needed recapitalisation in 2007 and KB1909 needed a financial partner. The purchase of shares in Youth is supposed to be not only a business opportunity, but also a parallel political effect, according to Perice. That's what Mr. Peric said at the hearing - a parallel political effect! In view of all the above, it is suspected that the public money of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been spent on the purchase of vascular support, could be spent on the purchase and recapitalisation of Mladina, d. d. Boris Peric, President of the Management Board KB1909, testified before the Commission that Vega Finanz was to recapitalise the company in Italy with its money. However, they are very interesting ownership structures, connections and intertwining of management positions in the boards and supervisory boards, as already stated by a colleague of Jelko or the president of the commission of inquiry in her position. In relation to these links, the Commission of Inquiry found that the public money intended for the purchase of vascular resistors should have been obtained in KB1909 through the sale of ownership in Mark Medical and should have been alerted to transfer prices or at domestic prices. What does that mean, transfer rates or next, I'll tell you about the case. So, the manufacturer, in our case Abbott, sold Mark Medical's veins to Italy at the price of 100 units, this company sold Mark Medical's veins to Slovenia at the price of 130 units, and Mark Medical Slovenia sold them to Slovenian hospitals at the price of 160 units or more. This raises suspicion of money laundering, as the funds obtained from the sale of vascular cords could also be returned illegally through KB1909 to Slovenia through various companies and should also be used for the recapitalisation of companies in Slovenia. So, there is a suspicion that the Slovenian taxpayer's money has been spent on recapitalisation of companies abroad and in Slovenia. If we take a closer look at the business or purchase of vein support in UKC Maribor. In its work, the Investigative Commission found that even in the UKC Maribor there is a suspicion that those responsible for purchasing vascular resistors should design all public procurements in a discriminatory manner and in a way that a specific supplier with a specific type of vascular resistance could be registered in a particular set and so on. This gives rise to suspicion of limiting competition and corruption. Another time. At UKC Maribor, too, it was an over-procurement of vein support according to planned purchases. Thus, the indicative estimate of the annual value of over-contractual liabilities for all suppliers in UKC Maribor in the years 2010-2015 is EUR 2.3 million. Vojko Kanič of UKC Maribor testified at the testimony that he himself was supposed to be involved in the preparation of the professional criteria for public procurement and that the intended purchase and quantity should not be affected. In his view, the quantities should be determined by the purchasing service and the staff of the Cardiology Department, and the head of the catheter laboratory should play a decisive role in the procurement of individual types. From the testimony of Vojko Kanič, it could be concluded that there is also pressure from suppliers to speed up the purchase of UKC Maribor and doctors. One of the suppliers stated that cash payment should also be made for the accelerated purchase of vascular support. It is therefore suspected that it was allowed for a certain supplier to sell vascular restraints and that the employees of the suppliers would be paid for business trips, education, travel of their family members, trips and various other material goods. A witness also testified before the investigative commission that she had agreed against the payment with the doctor to include it in the public invitation to tender, which later happened. It is interesting, however, that in UKC Maribor overruns occurred mainly in the purchase of titanium-2 and Optimax vein support. The use of Titan's veins should be favoured mainly in the UKC Maribor, where in 2016 doctors specifically requested the hospital's management to obtain this type of vein support. The only supplier of these veins in Slovenia was Animus, d.o.o., which was succeeded in 2013 by Vasc-Med, d.o.o. These companies are owned by the same persons and it should be stressed that the companies Animus, d. o. o., and later Vasc-Med, d. o. o., on the Slovenian market managed to keep the very high sales price of the veneer. The Commission concludes that suppliers sold vascular support to Slovenian hospitals at higher prices than in other countries. The reasons for the higher prices are: the purchase of over two intermediaries connected to legal entities; the high margins of Slovenian suppliers; the different prices of producers to suppliers; the requirement of hospitals to finance education; the recapitalisation of foreign and Slovenian companies; and the corruption of individuals employed in hospitals. The Commission of Inquiry also found that there is a suspicion that those responsible in UKC Ljubljana and Maribor would harm public funds and act unlawfully and unlawfully in 2007-2016 and should not follow the basic principles of public procurement. There is a suspicion that it would come from suppliers of vein support to cartel arrangements between suppliers, thus also having a dominant position. At the same time, it is also suspected that certain persons in Slovenian hospitals should request payment from suppliers in return for the purchase of certain vascular restraints. The Investigative Commission proposed that the competent authorities investigate the possible suspicions of infringements of the European Treaty in the work relating to competition rules, the suspicion of a crime of money laundering through purchase and sale of equity shares, tax evasion due to transfer prices in the supplier chain, the suspicion of money use from the sale of vascular bonds for the purchase of ownership shares in KB1909 in Mladina d.d., and their recapitalisation in 2007 and the purchase of ownership shares in KB1909 in Distriest, d.o.o., and Mark Medical, d.o.o., from Vega Finanz in 2007-2015 and the recapitalisation of companies in Italy and Slovenia. Of course, law enforcement authorities will have to investigate and prove crimes and only then, if they can follow, will criminal charges. However, the Commission of Inquiry has proposed a declaration of offences against individual natural persons under several articles of the Penal Code, namely, Dark Zorman, Matjaž Bunca, Vojko Kanič, Dragan Kovacic, mag. Simon the High, Gregor the Beerc, and David the Pizza. For several companies, the Commission proposes that the competent authorities investigate the possible suspicions recorded in the report, namely Mark Medical, d. o. o., Bormiamed, d. o. o., Vasc-Med, Animus, d. o. o., Kastor, d. o. o., Salus, d. o. o. and KB1909. In the final part of this table report, the Commission of Inquiry has also proposed that the competent authorities finally - I will say once again, finally - investigate all similar suspicions and the findings of this committee or the report that we are considering today. Why did I say, finally? Look, the law enforcement authorities at the head of Harry Furlan have all this stuff in their hands and have been investigating it since 2013. The results, today we are 2017, the results are nowhere and as an interesting or possibly incontrovertible, Harij Furlan is in a family relationship with Aleš Furlan, who was the owner of Primsel, the only supplier of heart valves in the General Hospital Nova Gorica. Maybe that's why he was blocking the medical corruption investigation. Maybe he ran into family members. Maybe. I'll say, maybe there's a suspicion. The Commission of Inquiry therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following conclusions. In order to ensure that an additional interim report and another supplementary interim report are submitted to the National Investigation Office, the Specialized State Prosecutor's Office, the Directorate-General for Competition at the European Commission, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Agency for the Protection of Competition, the State Audit Board for the Audit of Public Procurement Procedures and the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the reports should also be transmitted to the seats of the producers of the veins. Next. The Investigative Commission also proposes in its conclusions that the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office, the State Audit Commission for the Audit of Public Procurement Procedures and the Court of Auditors report regularly on the progress made in this case to the National Assembly. Well, fellow Members! The commission of inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the area of sales and purchase of venous braces has done a great deal of work with this first part. This report was also confirmed unanimously at its meeting, of course by those who were present at the meeting. This will also confirm all these reports in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and I believe that you, too, are respected colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, Members and other Members! The Desus Group will support the Interim Report on Parliamentary Investigations to identify abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of vascular restraints, as well as the proposed conclusions. The investigation was determined on 30 March 2016 in view of the suspicion that the procedures and transactions for the sale and acquisition of vascular resistors were conducted inadvertently and untransparent in order to produce the consequences of such practices and the suspicion of the presence of health corruption in this area. The investigation focused on the period from 1. 1. 2003 until the date of the parliamentary investigation. By the time of the interim report, the Commission of Inquiry had heard 35 witnesses and held two meetings of witnesses. Regrettably, at the outset, it has begun to interfere with the exchange of data and documentation between the investigative commission and the state institutions responsible for detecting and prosecuting corruption, namely the National Investigation Office, the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Some kind of cooperation has only come to light after long convincing, but it can be concluded that the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly is now the one doing the work that should have been done on the basis of the same anonymity before this competent institution. However, these were more than mainly meeting, providing information or almost obstructing each other in obtaining data and even referring to restrictions in this investigation under their competence. However, the fact is that so far there has been no known remarkable achievement of their current work and meetings in this case and not elsewhere in the field of health. We can even conclude that the suspects identified by the commission of inquiry by the suspicions of corruption were largely neither detected nor treated or interrogated by these institutions. It is particularly concerned that both the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and the National Investigation Office have investigated the area in question, but have not detected any suspicions of crime. Some doctors, buyers, and suppliers were interviewed, but it was concluded that there were no irregularities. The question of what these institutions are actually doing and why we are funding them, if there is no visible impact. In this case, the readers of the documentation obtained by the Commission of Inquiry, or the readers of the minutes of the hearings of the Commission of Inquiry, have the impression that in Slovenia we have a bunch of inefficient official institutions that are supposed to prosecute crime and corruption, but unfortunately they are not able to reach even the level of investigation of their cases, as demonstrated in this area by the National Assembly's Investigative Commission, in charge of investigating the sale and acquisition of cords, although in this committee the amateurs themselves are in the field of criminal investigations. The fact is that the official investigative institutions, NPUs, KPK and SDT have not been able to take the necessary steps for a number of years to put serious obstacles to the corruption of many health corruption actors and to take them for cover and their illegally acquired assets have been seized. Some witnesses have also mentioned before the commission of inquiry an empty investigation of criminal offences by Slovenian official institutions. Persons who take advantage of corruption can therefore be ridiculed by all those who seek to cut down on corruption in health care and elsewhere. Corruption is not innocent because it has no consequences for society as a whole. It has a negative impact on the health, social, legislative, political and economic aspects of social development; it undermines public confidence in public health, state institutions and the rule of law; it reduces the integrity of society as a whole and the importance of integrity as a social value; it reduces the budget of the state and local communities, businesses and the like for the private interests of the perpetrators of corruption; it places other citizens in an irregular position or restricts them in the exercise of their fundamental rights; it results in in in inefficiencies of different procedures, both administrative, judicial, police, public procurement, employment and so on; it limits free competition on the market and so on. The consequences of health corruption are also less efficient use of public funds for treatment purposes, insufficient public funds for treatment, insufficient public health services and too long a waiting period in health care. It can be found that some of the leading individual institutions, some physicians, surgeons who worked in public health institutions, had a decisive influence on the content of the supply of venous cords at excessive prices. It is not surprising that in most of those where corruption has been detected, it is also noted that they have also operated in their espies, parts, private societies and/or some have operated elsewhere, for example in other countries. Witnesses have been interviewed who have admitted their contacts with suppliers, the removal of the veins for private purposes and so on. One of the witnesses even warned the competent person at UKC Ljubljana about any conflict of interest due to their contacts with a certain supplier, but remained a member of the expert selection commission in the tendering procedures. Services for overpaid purchase of venous braces are intended to be settled in different ways for some public servants, mostly doctors, by suppliers – with expensive luxury trips for them and/or for their neighbors, with money per hand, education and the like. If public health institutions were to put in place controls, work arrangements and training of healthcare professionals in a fair manner, hospitals could purchase vascular resistors and/or other medical devices at substantially lower prices, and the overpaid money for medical devices could remain for the treatment of people and for the reduction of waiting types in health care. Most of us in the Desus Group are saddened and concerned that public health is losing its reputation because of the lack of necessary measures, the lack of regulation and supervision in health care, the persistence of public and private interference, which we have been alerting the competent minister for a good time, and thus the preservation of many conflicts of interest that usually go against the public interest and to the private benefit. Although it works in the public health system, a large number of taken doctors who are not foreign to the word Hippocrates and are willing to practice it. There are also many intensive nurses and other health workers in the healthcare system. The mud of corrupt individuals, and the gods in white, because the public health system is not ready and unable to eliminate them, falls on the whole institution and even on public health. When we read the interim report, we can also ask how it is possible that there are still many conflicts of interest in the public health system, although many individuals and the Commission have been alerting us for many years to the corruption risks posed by such conflicts of interest. Let me mention only a hard-core vascular system of work of doctors whose, despite the promise of a coalition contract, the competent minister did not know or did not want to cut into the recently adopted Health Act. Interconnection between public and private and the absence of internal control mechanisms, rules and controls is once again a potential breeding ground for corruption risks. While trusting in people is encouraging and positive, controls and measures to prevent the existence of corruption risks must also be taken. Unfortunately, experience shows that there are also responsible people in the public sector who are selfish, selfish, inclined to seek privileges or abuse the system for private benefit, and it seems that no one has learned anything from past mistakes and affairs in public health institutions. Most of what the Commission of Inquiry has discovered could be prevented by appropriate organisation of work, by effective control, by preventing conflicts of interest and by immediate relocation procedures from the responsible places of those for whom it appears not to be credible. However, within those who should not have established appropriate systems to detect and prevent corruption and conflicts of interest, they are in addition to public health institutions and already mentioned KPK, NPU and SDT, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Finance, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, the Public Agency for Medical Devices, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. The Commission of Inquiry found that there is a suspicion that UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor are responsible for harming public funds and operating illegally and illegally in the years 2007 to 2016. Their actions indicate a suspicion of corruption. There is a suspicion that certain suppliers of vascular resistors have made it possible for them to have a dominant position on the market. However, between 2007 and 2014, public procurement contracts that did not follow the procurement rules were illegal and repeatedly violated the Public Procurement Act. There is also a suspicion of cartel negotiation between suppliers of vein resistors in Slovenia. The Commission of Inquiry has identified the suspicions of a number of offences under the Code of Criminal Procedure for the unjustifiable use of foreign property, for the offences of fraud, for the offences of receiving gifts, for the offences of tax evasion, for the offences of damage to public funds, for the offence of committing adultery, for the offence of obtaining a bribe, for the offence of perjury or for the offence of misdemeanour and for the offence of abuse of an official position or of official rights. In the light of the findings of the commission of inquiry, it will be sent to notify the disclosure of possible suspected crimes against the Magi. Bojana Urana, Dark Zorman, Matjaž Bunca, Vojka Kanič, Dragan Kovacic, mag. Simon the High and Gregor the Beer. For most of the above, there are suspicious services of almost all the above-mentioned offences. The Commission also proposes to the competent authorities to investigate the possible suspicions of a crime of abuse of the position or trust in the economic activity of the offence of unlawful giving gifts, the criminal offence of damage to public funds and the criminal offence of bribery, all according to the articles of the Penal Code referred to in the interim report for those responsible in Mark Medical, d.o.o., including David Pizzag, formerly employed in this company, further, for those responsible in BormiaMed, d.o.o., VASC-MED, d.o.o., and in the company of Animus, d. o. o. o. Furthermore, the Commission proposes to the competent authorities to investigate the suspicions of a criminal offence of restricting competition by those responsible in Kastor, d. o. o., and Salus, d.o.o., and the suspicions of a crime of money laundering, tax evasion and damage to public funds by those responsible in KB1909. While banking secrecy, business secrecy and internal labelling allow for the concealment of certain findings from the public, the data will be made available to the authorities responsible for the prosecution of criminal offences, as well as all information available to members of the National Assembly under certain conditions. We hope that this investigation will allow further necessary steps by the competent authorities and institutions to initiate further proceedings against persons notified to the competent authorities of the NPU, the KPK, the SDT, the Court of Auditors, Furs and so on due to suspicions of criminal offences in the event of sufficient evidence. The data show or show from the very beginning when the Commission stopped that there was no doubt that public funds were being damaged in the purchase of vascular cords. For example, UKC Ljubljana used 4 million 250,000 euros for a little over 5,000 life support, but if it bought it from a foreign supplier, it would cost around 970,000 euros. Therefore, the resistance was overpaid by more than 300 %. The Public Procurement Act was repeatedly violated. It is worrisome that only a narrow segment of healthcare procurement has been investigated, and on the day, so many suspicions of crime have emerged. We wonder what else lies in the field of procurement of medical devices, medicines and medical and technical devices. In the past, overpaid purchases in the health sector have been a bit of an affair. For example, in the area of the acquisition of operating tables, the acquisition of diapers, the information system, and so on. It turned out that the hospitals were soft for suppliers. These have free access to some willing doctors who are eager to wait for them and for services or for private benefits that they will receive from suppliers for their own free will. Of course it's not for nothing. The luxurious travels of doctors, the benefits and the fine life they enjoyed together with their families at the expense of the suppliers paid for the hospitals with overpaid supplies, and indirectly paid by all of us, and especially by patients with too long waiting types, in which they lose their health and lives. Some employees, especially doctors, have behaved incredibly self-sufficiently and have acted for the sake of their own private financial benefits. Supervisory mechanisms and rules that would prevent self-abuse of public funds and time in the public service and patients, obviously are not. In some hospitals and the health system, the whole system of control, ethics, rules and regulation has been abandoned in this area. The competent ministry has not established a regulation to exclude conflicts of interest from the health system. However, patients and medical personnel who are disturbed by such a system suffer. Dr. Matjaž Bunz, as well as others mentioned today, can learn much from the interim report. But since I'm running out of time, let me just name a few things. For example, on page 92 of the report, we can read: “The witness goes to many conventions as an invited lecturer. The organization invites and pays for the whole package, the hotel, everything. It also serves as a lecturer or a reviewer. At that time, he had a paid listing, and most of the years, he was paid for a hotel. We learn from Dr. Bunc that his past travels were financed by Abbott, Mark Medical, Auremian, and Bormie suppliers. In addition to the public service, Dr Bunc also has a private company Bunc Cardiology, p. p., and a private Society for the Expansion of Knowledge and Research in Medicine. The company applies for funding every year. It is only on the explicit question of the President of the Investigative Commission, Dr Bunc, that he is investigating the anti-corruption Commission. In the context of the proctoring contract, Dr Bunc was provided with transport and accommodation in 2013. How irresponsible the public calls were, he also says that Dr Bunc remained a member of the invitation to tender, despite the fact that once the chairman and Mr Uranus had even warned himself that his connections with the suppliers could lead to a conflict of interest. The open access of suppliers to doctors, who are also decision makers on the procurement of medical devices, is well described by Dr. Vojko Kanič on page 128 of the interim report. Regarding possible contacts with suppliers, he says that just as Witness Zorman has already said, these people come to the catheter lab, they present news and, in fact, they are all relatively eager to accept it. So they had contact with all the suppliers. Suppliers had free access to doctors and departments in UKC Maribor. And we could also describe how shamelessly they talk about how the walls disappear, how they disappeared, more than 100 stents, and how they loaned them to their colleagues for free and that it is nothing special. In short, because it has today been exposed by Mr Kordiš, let me say that in the Desus Group we do not support possible abuses of the commission of inquiry for political purposes, but we support investigations into any possible suspicions of crime and must not be untouchable. The Commission of Inquiry has proposed to the National Assembly for adoption a number of conclusions whose implementation is expected to help reduce future corruption risks in the health sector. The Desus Group will therefore support the conclusions proposed in the interim report that we are considering today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In the introduction, let me point out that we will support the interim report in the Group of Social Democrats. We have heard a great deal in previous positions, even in a visual and clear quote, so that I will not repeat these words in this place, nor will I repeat them, for what I have heard only confirms. That corruption is in the country is not a new phenomenon, it has a long beard, ranging from the beginning of all governments, ministers of all ministers. In the light of the hearings of the witnesses and the discussions at the investigative committee, this first sentence is confirmed over and over again. Therefore, this also confirms our decision to participate in the investigative commission that this decision was correct. It is quite obvious that this system operates according to some of its laws, which are, to say the least, controversial and suspicious. However, for any more and competent institutions must make their assessment available to the competent institutions, after this interim report, with all the facts. On this basis, they must also do their job and give us and the public an appropriate conclusion. Social Democrats are constantly calling for changes, especially in the field of public procurement, because existing practices today make it impossible to be transparent in business relations. Existing practices do not prevent corruption and conflict of interest. The existing practices of corruption are further and further reinforcing. System changes are necessary and necessary now and immediately. This is so strange and obvious that we cannot even be surprised when people condemn us, build us up, and justly claim responsibility from us in accordance with the responsibilities we have. On the basis of the testimonies on the investigator, we have drawn up our own opinions and views, but on hearing all the alarms have to be turned on; layer by layer, all the practice of the system has rotted in the very foundations. That's what we're worried about. We are aware that it will be difficult to change these practices because they are already so caught up that some see them no longer as problematic, even though they are school cases of corruption, unfair practices and fraud. I'm saying it's hard, but I'm sure it's not impossible. Zero tolerance for corruption must be a goal for which we must strive as a society as a whole. We too often hear that the Ministry does not have the authority to interfere in the implementation of public procurement procedures run independently by public institutions. But that can't be, and there can't be a reason for us to close our eyes. We are aware that the regulation of this area cannot be fully and fully guaranteed only by the Government and the Ministry. Councils of public institutions and principally management, which are autonomous according to their status, have a great deal of responsibility. But even this can't be an excuse for inaction and turning sides in principle: we're not competent, we can't do anything. We claim that the government is not only political, but it must also be moral authority. There must be a place where clear views are formed, what is acceptable and what is not in society. And these views must be clear and understandable, clear guidance in our conduct to all of us. Social Democrats believe that the existence of corruption in health care helps those who should not only look in the right direction but also use the magnifying glass to better see. Any form of corruption is unacceptable. In the case of health corruption, however, it must be so much more unacceptable, as it creates a system that directly affects the well-being and well-being of people. Such unfair practices, however, destroy the rule of law and the social state. They destroy people's trust, they create apathy, and this is just as destructive for democracy as it is for people themselves. These practices prevent people from universal access to health services, deny them the right to timely treatment, and the flow of money for health treatment directly endangers human lives. As part of the Resolution on the National Health Plan, the Ministry of Health, as one of the priorities, has made efforts to deliver the best results and to increase the responsibility and efficiency of health management by improving governance and management processes. Social Democrats see a key flaw in the system of governance and management of public institutions, we regret that so far nothing is done in this area. We urgently need to optimise management, this should be an alpha and omega of all health reforms as well. The magic wands, which, by one stroke or instruction, would drastically reverse trends and indicate and change or even interrupt existing practices, unfortunately there is no such thing. We also know that corruption is practically embedded in our system. Such and other affairs, and these findings only confirm this. So once again, I say many times, if everyone really wanted the same: transparent, economical and prudent procurement of materials, legitimate use of public funds, then not only would they point to problems but they would focus on finding solutions. The planned changes in procurement and procurement procedures should be continued, the procurement procedures should be made as transparent as possible. This is the only way we can change the situation and make a cross-section of existing practices. We also constantly expose and demand zero tolerance for corruption. Everywhere. Systemic corruption is one of the main causes of both the economic and financial crises. In setting up this parliamentary inquiry, we have sincerely said that we would like this investigative commission to be an opportunity for a new policy where corruption will not be a place. We believe that our work in this commission of inquiry has been honest and creative. We hope that the report also calls on the competent authorities to prepare optimal solutions that will lead to the amendment of existing legislation in order not to allow existing practices. The debate on the investigative committee has further exposed the misery of our system. The weaknesses of the system that need correction are now even more visible. This must be followed by new and new steps in better preparation and adoption of legislative changes. This new legislation must be the sword with which we will cut the knots of the Gordis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the interim report, the main findings and on the proposals for conclusions submitted by the Commission of Inquiry. I inform you that the amendments to the draft conclusions have not been tabled. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready. I give the floor to Mrs Jelka Godec, representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to come by because I'm running out of time. While some have already said about the proposals for conclusions, I would like to reiterate that it will be clear. In fact, I said what are the general findings of the interim report and that the parliamentary commission of inquiry unanimously adopted these conclusions or this report at its meeting, including by announcing possible suspicions of offences against natural persons - I think that several colleagues have already listed them or have already said - and the investigative commission is also providing all this material and, of course, an interim report to the investigating authorities to investigate the suspicions of criminal offences against individual legal persons. Therefore, it is not a matter of acknowledgment of the suspicions of criminal offences, but it is only a matter of submitting documentation to the competent authorities to examine or investigate possible suspicions of legal persons involved in the sale or purchase of vein support in Slovenian hospitals. The Parliamentary Investigation Commission also proposes 11 conclusions to the National Assembly, as I have already said before; in the first decision, that the entire interim report be submitted or forwarded to the National Investigation Office at the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia and the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia as the role of announcing the suspicions of criminal services in the field of sales and the purchase of vascular restraints. In the second conclusion, that the interim report shall be forwarded to the Directorate-General for Competition to the European Commission as a role or indication of suspicion of infringements in respect of the enforcement of competition rules under the 2012 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; that the interim report shall be transmitted to the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia at the Ministry of Finance as the role of the indication of suspected infringements in the field of tax evasion; that the interim report shall be forwarded to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition as the role of the indication of suspected infringements in the field of cartel negotiation and restriction of competition; and that the interim report shall be forwarded to the State Audit Board for the revision of the procedures for the award of public contracts by the Republic of Slovenia as the role of a declaration of infringements of the Public Procurement Act in connection with the acquisition of life support in UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor. The interim report should be forwarded to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia as an application for the revision of the regularity and prudence of operations in the public institutions of UKC Ljubljana and Maribor between 2006 and 2016. In addition, the interim report should be submitted to the seat of producers of the Abbott, Medtronic, Biosensors, Boston Scientific, Biotronic and Hexacath venous linings. These are multinationals who produce vascular resistors and these vascular resistors have also been sold or purchased in Slovenia. At the same time, the Court of Auditors and the Public Agency for the Protection of the Competition of the Republic of Slovenia report to the National Assembly in the context of their legislation, in the context of their reports to the National Assembly, to the competent authorities, namely the Special Prosecutor's Office and the State Audit Commission. These are the conclusions that we are proposing to the National Assembly, and I reiterate that the interim report with an additional and other supplementary interim report was unanimously adopted at its regular session. This meeting was closed, though. Today we have heard some information from this meeting, or at least I will say personal views at the time these conclusions are adopted. Let me say that the interim report has been dealt with three times on an investigative committee, where it was either by coalition parties or by members, I will not talk about the parties, because I will also tell why there have been proposals, concerns, comments that we have, I think, taken together in the interim report itself in conclusions and conclusions, and therefore there has also been a unanimous confirmation. No amendments were tabled at the meeting of the commission of inquiry and no amendments to today's session. I am therefore also surprised by the implementation of certain or the position of certain groups of Members, or two groups of Members, which have not been defined in their position, or one group of Members, in their position. In fact, the doubts expressed when they were already expressed at the investigative commission's own meeting, I must say that if doubts were so strong and if they were argued or also by amendments or otherwise, they would be taken into account. So, I must say, I'm a little surprised that this is being expressed today, and on the investigative committee itself, a unanimous confirmation. Of course, this is a matter for each individual, but I did expect or expect that the interim report was unanimously adopted at the investigative commission's own meeting to be confirmed today in the National Assembly. In particular, if we know that everyone, even today in the positions themselves and in the coalition treaties and other words at other meetings of the National Assembly, is constantly talking about zero tolerance for corruption, that all Members are stressing this. Today is an opportunity to confirm the interim report, which we then submit to the Slovenian authorities and foreign authorities to investigate. Because the task of the commission of inquiry is not, of course, a judge or a prosecutor or a giver, I will say, the end of the complaint based on some suspicions, indictives. We do not allow it, or we do not allow it, but we simply warn the investigative authorities in Slovenia that they have done little fighting in this area and that, as a colleague said in her position, in a year and a half, a lot of material has been done, while the NPU and SDT have had this issue in their hands since November 2013 and unfortunately have not come so far as to hear at least these witnesses that we have heard. I said before, I will not speak with a party, because I do not take this commission of inquiry as the SDS commission, as Mr Kordish said, if this is the SDS parliamentary investigative committee and we are going to hunt witches. In the commission of inquiry, once again, there are seven members and each one had the opportunity and still has the opportunity to convey his opinions, his views, to question the witnesses, to propose to the witnesses, to propose conclusions, including which material should be reviewed and so on. This is not what I consider to be a party matter, but it is an investigative commission, so once again, where all parliamentary parties are represented and where I think we are working creatively. However, if one member feels that this is not the case, I do not know why he insists on being part of this commission of inquiry. It would probably be better to get out and then our work in terms of contemplation might be easier, but it is their decision. Far from somehow sharing and investigating only those who are not from SDS or who are away from SDS. See, we investigated both UKC Ljubljana and UKC Maribor, General Hospital Celje, but we did not look at who is in any party, who is in some kind of political definition, but we did essentially explore each person. I think that even if I say the right thing, all the members have had the opportunity to hear, so I do not agree here with such a statement or finding that we only question those who fit the SDS or who please the President of the Commission. Once again, the members had the opportunity to express their identity as witnesses and to question them. So far, as President, I have always put such proposals to the vote and have been voted on. I say again, I strongly reject such statements from a member of the Left. Now, in this future, I will give my colleagues the floor first to tell their own vision of this commission of inquiry, and perhaps later on. It is true that there is also something about closed work to say, but I can say to the public that in closed work there is only confirmation or a collection of material and witness testimony that confirms the conclusions or findings that are contained in the interim report itself, which is public. This means that then, of course, because of the various data protections, both business secrecy, banking secrecy and witness protection, if you want, this is not to be made public. But believe me, we have also obtained evidence from the testimony and from the documents, or at least, I hope that the NPU and the competent institutions will determine the authenticity of these documents, as well as the testimony of the witnesses, which confirms that the doctors in Slovenia are the ones we have already mentioned, these are the leaders of the catheter laboratory, namely Mr. Zorman, Dr. Bunc, Dr. Kanič and in one part also Dr. Kovacič, because these allegations of suspicions of crimes are not just established. As for companies, however, there are also documents and statements of witnesses both in open and closed work, indicating all that we have written down. Thus, everyone will have the opportunity to explain the matter further. This is an interim report after all. We are waiting at last and, as has been said, I expect, of course, as President of the Commission itself, that the cooperation of the members will continue to be the same and that we will also have political responsibilities. So much for a start, and I will, and then I'll come back to you with certain things in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marian Pojbich, you have the floor. Get Mr. Jan Škoberne ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President, Vice-President. First of all, all congratulations to Jelka Godec and the entire committee that did this work, I mean, great. But it's very, very sad that in our country such filth can happen. A very important question to me is what was happening on the national investigating body, which examined these things and found nothing and sent only a report to the prosecution. Here I have an extremely important question, here I fear it is political responsibility. I can't get past the name and surname of Mr. Furlan here. I think you all know him and you know who I'm talking about. I don't condemn him, absolutely, but some of the clues indicate that somehow his family was connected to the sale of these veins to certain health institutions and so on and so on. I wouldn't be drowning right now, but I think there's something fishy here. Here something very, very, very strong smells, because it is amazing what was discovered by the Jelka Godec committee, who are not specialized in these things, that a specialized key organ has discovered nothing. I mean, if it wasn't for this investigative committee to go through this thing smoothly, nice in the drawers under the table, and none of this would have happened. The Slovenian public wouldn't know anything, in health care it would continue to steal money on cubicles, on cubicles, just as it is now being stolen. And no one can tell me that's not the case because that's the case; there's still a lot of corruption in the health system. I hope that, as a fraction of this problem will be solved and this network, which manipulates the health system and steals, will also contribute to this interim report and, of course, also to the final report prepared by this investigative commission. I must say that all the things that all my predecessors have been talking about until now, I cannot help but suspect that there is something very wrong in this health system, as I said before. I'm not going down because I don't have much time to discuss it, in detail. If those who have listened to what Mrs Jelka Godec said today, what other representatives of the parliamentary groups have said and, among other things, have said that they strongly condemn what has been happening in the healthcare system. I would expect those with scissors and linen in their hands to make the right moves. Not just what the commission of inquiry is doing, because they have all the organs in their hands, and I could say this, I will deal with it in such a way that these thieves, who had their fingers in marmalade, would also be punished. All those listed here with a name and surname would be put in custody. I'd put them all in jail! From this moment forward, and I think that before that, we should be in custody. We have names and surnames here. They don't have anything to look for anymore until things clear up, because they're still in the box, they're still inside those networks, and they can still do whatever they want. And they destroy evidence and so on and so forth. If our judicial branch of government and all the authorities paid for it were well paid to convince this mess, to do their job, they would all be in custody today. Everyone was in custody, and it was uncompromising! I don't think we're talking about political parties here today, we're not talking about any politics. I am sure, absolutely sure, as the Slovenian people are now following this matter, so I am sure that all the parliamentary groups sitting here in this Parliament, if they represent the interests of our citizens and citizens and not the interests of the lobby, must today support all these conclusions proposed by the Commission of Inquiry in the interim report. Today it will be seen, and this is public, who is the one who will not support these conclusions. This is public and that is what we will present to the Slovenian people and then we will know who speaks one and who does the other. We'll see about that today! We'll see which one of the politicians is the one who's holding the barn of this criminal society. This seems to me an extremely important question, and today we will get to this question a very concrete and precise answer, because I am sure that no one in this national assembly who is a representative of the people would not be aware of these pigs, and this evidence we have is sufficiently strong, sufficiently substantiated to convince every Member here and every party here in this House that he is voting for it. Once again, I warn all the parties to the coalition and all the Members and Members who are sitting in the National Assembly to support these proposed conclusions. Those you will not support, believe me, that the first ones I will introduce to the Slovenian public with names and surnames. Everywhere I go, I'm going to carry this leaf with me, and I'm going to tell who it is to prevent corruption and filth in this society, that we don't have more and more poor people on the one hand and more people who can't live and, on the other hand, a narrow group of bandits, I can't say otherwise that they're manipulating the work of politics. Above all, I would like to say that what we are talking about today and is in this report, there is no one, one little dot about who is politically colored. Absolutely all thieves are covered, in quotation marks – I do not say because they are not yet convicted, they are covered by everyone we speak of who is suspected to have been involved in the pigs. I'm sure those of you who are, no matter what customer they come from, must be punished. They must be punished with this, not only to come to prison, to take away their entire assets, except where they have proof that they have produced this property. Their relatives also need to be looked at as someone wrote to his wife, mother, sister, and so on. Your assets. We have to do this once and for all, and the most ethical, moral party, say the SMC, who talks about it all the time, and today it was also said in the position, it has to stand behind it and it has to happen. If that didn't happen, it would be the same as it was, because if it weren't for this investigation committee of Alenka, Jelka Godec – I'm sorry, Jelka – we wouldn't be talking about this today. These gentlemen would have kept each of them in their position – they were set up there to guard these thieves so that no one could find out their lumbarties, their subjugation, their messes and their thefts. Thank God. Thank God that when we set up this committee, reason prevailed, or fear in certain political circles, that they voted in favour of this investigative commission. But thank you all Members and Members for having done so. This was done with dignity in the first part of their work. Today, however, they will prove by pressing "for the report" whether at the time they thought seriously or now those with the power convinced them not to come to the meeting or abstain from voting, etc. etc. Today I think that a moral-ethical exam will be for everyone, whether you're a doctor or a master or a high school graduate or what I know I'm not going to explain is anything. I am sure that today this exam will be and it will also be a card to tell the Slovenian people whether we are here because of their interest or we are here to get paid and to hold the stall to the lobby and gang of mobs. That is why I expect, so I have highlighted this in particular, because this must be known to the Slovenian public that it will not happen in the future, that one is speaking and the other is working. What I said in the beginning, all those suspects in here should be in custody tomorrow. They should be. Only then would we see how much more we would know than we know today. Trust me! When these rascals began to save their own personal skin, then 10 or 30 or 50 others would issue, they do so everywhere in true democratic societies where the rule of law is in force. Not like us, that the rule of law is just so that we have a legal system just to prosecute political opponents who want to do their job, their hard work and their engagement to prevent what is happening in this country from happening: that we have one-class, second-class citizens and citizens on the one hand. I hope that we have once matured in this society, at least Members and Members, that we understand this and that we are aware of each of our responsibilities. That we're aware of each other's responsibilities. Therefore, I think it is of paramount importance that today's conclusions be confirmed unanimously. Consonant! And then, I am sure, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will also be able to say that things are beginning to change in our society in the right direction, where Members and Members are working in our interest, not in their own or the interests of some lobby. I will gladly support this report, of course, and the report is ready, as I said at the outset, more than well, excellent. All those who participate in this committee who helped my colleague Jelka Gobzek in this work are sincere congratulations. There it has proved that we can be united with the politicians when it comes to the Slovenian people, because we do not care what happens to our people. We don't care when we see what we heard here today from my colleague and those who represented the views of the members of the groups. But it is true that he has scissors and linen in his hands, and the government. The government has scissors and canvas in hand; the government has an internal minister, has a justice minister and all the instruments for this – the anti-corruption commission and so on – so that we can act immediately. But I said - and, of course, I also conclude - that I expect those here with a name and surname to be in custody as soon as possible. To lay the groundwork for them to get a little scared once and in the end they won't laugh at us so they don't make a direct fool of us. We're talking here, we're trying, we're trying to do something, and they're just mixing envelopes on the other hand – and I'm not going to point out names to names right now, as I said, and I'm going to conclude this debate now, because my colleagues are going to discuss this too. Of course, I will be happy to support this report, absolutely all the conclusions that are proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Jani.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have before us a report that we have actually heard quite a bit about at this time. In fact, we were able to watch a two-time episode even on television about the veins and all possible contributions, and we also had witness hearings alone and, last but not least, various press conferences by the commission that was being investigated, which informed what was actually going on. But we all know, and it is right to ask ourselves in this interim report whether, by chance, what we were afraid of at the time of our establishment, and to that end, has happened. First of all, let us not forget the procedure that was carried out in the National Assembly. When the applicants, the signatories, proposed the establishment of an investigative commission, the Legal and Legislative Service on the five densely typed sides made it very clear what was to happen before such an investigative commission was created. In this opinion, the Law-Legal Service had a number of very clear warnings, and in the end the concluding statement that if this amendment is not taken into account, it can happen that the Commission will even be able to carry out its illegal work. What happened next? The College of the President of the National Assembly addressed this proposal, and when the President of the National Assembly called on the then or present one, I apologize, Mr Tank's leader that corrections should be made, he made it clear that the corrections had already been tabled an hour ago in the UDIS. None of the members of the college read these corrections and, of course, on the basis of this claim, without going to take a serious look at these corrections, confirmed that the material was appropriate for the meeting, the plenary session of the National Assembly. Why am I bringing this up? I mention above all because later we could see that only the nomotechnical corrections, the essential, the substantive corrections, and the elements of the investigation themselves were not, were all the same. In fact, the only thing that remains is that this is essentially some kind of upgrade of the already-called SDS-led convened meetings and the problem that we have discussed on several occasions, which is systemic corruption. More! At the very beginning, some even claimed that some claim that there is no corruption in health care — far from it! Corruption is, often even proven, even procedures are under way, but on the general subject, and the word systemic corruption in health care is unusual that the element of such an investigation is focused solely on vascular resistance. At that time, they based mainly on the argument that they used the so-called Austrian model, if I am not mistaken that colleague Dobovšek, who is unrelated, then said that this was a good example of how, in fact, on one model, on one small narrow “case”, you essentially break down, develop and find all the irregularities and then make a model for all the other irregularities that occur in one of the areas, in this case of course in health. However, we forgot one fact — or those who claimed it. In Austria, they have a different legal order than we have here. However, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Inquiry is very clear, as far as this is concerned; the Constitution and, last but not least, the borders between the executive, legislative and judicial branches of power. Why am I bringing this up? I mention in particular this because there is always and every commission of inquiry such a small temptation that members fall into, the President of each commission, that they must repeatedly and constantly ask what they are really investigating. Already in the matter itself, in the founding act, it was more than plainly expressed that because they were merely upgrading extraordinary sessions, in fact, what they would reveal was not clearly defined. But that's why it's so much more important that we ask this in the interim report. In fact, the interim report and also the proposed conclusions that we have on the table are of course kind and I will be kind, but not only suitable for adoption. [[…]] Of course, I will also try or certainly argue with most of these conclusions, which have been proposed, especially the way it is formulated and so on, because in fact they are in some way destroying themselves. If we go in line, I think it's very important that we clear up work first, of course. I must say that I appreciate and respect my colleague Godec because she is a good and working Member, she has proved this many times, but that does not mean that the work will be done well. Far from it! But since we're in the interim report, I think it's time for the investigative commission to finish and do the work that set it up. By, of course, trying to hold to its basic conclusions. But if you look at the founding act, it's an act establishing an investigative commission, it's very difficult because they've expanded the field that way, and they're actually getting involved all the time, and they're crossing borders that are really dangerous. First, due to parliamentary practice and secondly, due to legality itself. What am I actually talking about? I expected that the President and the members of the Commission had actually encountered a very broad and important, serious problem to come to the National Assembly following a proposal to extend the work of the Commission of Inquiry, so that it would be significantly easier for them to do the work they had actually started. No, no, no. In fact, I actually got a feeling because I have to say that I've been very closely monitoring all the hearings and I've read very carefully all the three documents that are essentially the subject of today's debate both in open and closed work, and I can only find out the following. Although the report is indeed a fat, 300 pages and more, the essence of this report is, in fact, these conclusions are practically on three lists that speak of everything that the members and the President of the Commission wanted to inform us about to decide. What's more, they went one step further. They've done what's kind of strange. On the basis of their work, we would like to ask the National Assembly as a whole to authorize them to do something in the name of the National Assembly. It's a kind of precedent, which is unusual. The Commission of Inquiry shall be established without a vote. For two reasons; one reason is for sure because it is also one of – not only, but also one of – the tools of the opposition when it can actually propose a parliamentary inquiry. And in order not to hinder it, it is, in fact, based on the Rules of Procedure and, on the basis of the document, when it is submitted of course, established when we discuss it and is included on the agenda of the plenary session. The second reason is that this gives her certain powers, which she can do as an investigative commission, and the second, not least, you know certain actions can only do — then I will give you clear cases — Members or authorities or working bodies within the National Assembly, and there is no way that the National Assembly can do so; what they would now like. That is why this famous decision, which I do not understand at all, is that the National Assembly actually authorizes an investigative committee, when, in fact, they have another committee led by a colleague of Shircelj, and it can, say, automatically propose and do it on its own. And I'm going to explain what I'm actually talking about. If I continue, it is also interesting that, in one of the conclusions, the Commission of Inquiry also proposes to the National Assembly that, in fact, if I am more exact and accurate, it should, in the seventh point, say so, be short of the fact that the Investigative Commission for vascular resistors submit an additional interim report and another supplementary interim report to the offices of the producers of vascular resistors. [[…]] In other words, we will now send this report to their seats so that they can watch it. I'm asking you very nicely, but that's in conflict with all logic! Citizens have no right to see closed documents, and now we will send these documents. And for the purpose of the commission of inquiry, it's extremely illogical, unusual, and if you ask me, it's ridiculous. For that reason, it seems to me that it is in conflict with all logic. This seventh point cannot be adopted under any circumstances. Then you have the 9th, 10th and 11th points, where, in fact, three independent bodies, whose founders are, of course, the Republic of Slovenia by law and give them a special role to the Court of Auditors and the State Audit Commission – in fact, such independence – and, most importantly, we suggest that they report something special to us on this case. Please! If they take the lead and we do not know, of course they will not go and report to the National Assembly! Secondly, it is pointless to impose on independent authorities something which is already stipulated by law to do so, and this is very clear. Once a year, the Court of Auditors comes and submits its annual report to the National Assembly, and even the date for certain bodies is indicated by the date by which they have to submit this annual report. And in the context of this debate and in the context of this report, of course, Members or on the home committee may, depending on where we are dealing with this report, unless it is required to do so even in plenary session, of course, ask what is desired. But what we do with these proposals is extremely unusual. For the first time in some way, we are interfering with essentially outside the law, pure legal pleonaism, or some regulation, so that we can make a decision in order to do something that is not in our jurisdiction at all. It's true that we're proposing, but you know, to propose something that someone doesn't have to do is totally stupid. On the other hand, it is unusual to propose something, but at the same time we will call them to a hearing as witnesses — at least for the chairman. There are two things that just don't go together here, so I think this is an additional argument, why such conclusions are not acceptable. What is most unusual, of course, in the conclusions that are in the interim report, is that, in fact – of course, the President will probably discuss and explain, given that she co-sponsors this interim report and the difference between suspicion and possible suspicion. If someone explains this definition to me, what it really means. This means that they may not be convinced of the suspicion they have. In fact, they don't even know if it's suspicious or not. They don't really know if they've come to that conclusion or not. I believe they don't have the whole picture yet, but then it's pointless to put such claims in an interim report, but you'd better come to the end at the end of the final report with a clear conclusion: yes or no. Just those two. And this possible suspicion is very much like a political one to me, because you know, I think you might be suspicious if you would, but I'm not the most zier, you know, look, it's nothing! [[…]] We're used to it here, in the National Assembly, so we can easily sprinkle this on people, by names, without realizing that we're not really the police, not the prosecution, not the court. It's clear who in this country can do it. Why is the commission of inquiry actually? Yes, to determine political responsibility! I would like to see this in this report; and if he does not know it, certainly in the final report. And I don't see any need, today we're in a hurry to find out that the commission is doing its job to the end. Secondly, more importantly, they themselves find that there is something, I will say, ambiguity about public procurement, which I agree with, absolutely. This has already shown a number of different factors, not least in practice, and therefore there is no wise conclusion that irregularities, which are very obvious, also identified by the Commission, were in public procurement. But this is precisely why I would rather expect that, in fact, because of a deliberate violation of public procurement, individual complaints could come from the very findings of the interim report. Furthermore, in the final report, I even expect the Commission to propose solutions, amendments to public procurement legislation, because it will have all the measures and, lastly, conclusions as to why this has occurred and where additional fuses are needed. This is what I expect, of course, from this commission. Everything else seems to me to be more or less what I pointed out in my debate when the Commission was being set up. I have my own debate ahead of me, and I have very clearly pointed out one thing, and I fear that this is now a problem that we find. I hope I'm wrong, let me be convinced, discuss this way. But I said the following: "We will work within the commission of inquiry within the limits pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service" – although they have not been changed into the act – "and we will not get involved in Janša's media disputes with Youth" – because we all know why you brought this Youth in. Mr Janša was unhappy with this medium and is now being dragged in any way in order to settle with it. And this is, I'll say, the desire of wet dreams of some who get some tools into their hands so that, of course, they can somehow get revenge or even prove something. If you have anything, come and prove it, but what you've presented today, I'm sorry, it's still not saying anything, except what you wrote down "the possible suspicion". Look, I can't react to any suspicion, just not. I'm pretty sure I know how to press charges or find a criminal record. I don't know anything else. In the end, I said, "A little less..." [[advertising from the hall]] Vice President, make sure they keep their voices down there because I'm disturbed by the debate. I was quiet all the time. You're staring at me all the time. [[advertising from the hall]] Vice President, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u155	Well, he's right. Jani, keep going. Please. Come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u156	I said: "The role of law enforcement or police agencies, the state prosecutor's office, which we fully trust, is even less important." Well, that's what's actually happening right now. How? I'll tell you. First time. Is the Commission of Inquiry qualified for a forensic financial investigation? Who in fact can do this in this country? It is well known who can do so and on whose proposal someone can do so. Not an investigative committee because she's not even qualified for it. We don't even have people, I'm sorry, at least those professional associates who are reported inside the network that I see don't have those skills. I'm sorry, they don't have those skills! Finally, they do not have access to data to be able to identify this. You can see for yourself that there are a lot of foreign companies. Did you get all the documentation from foreign companies? Everything. Well, I'd like to see that in the report, and I expect that in the final report here, so that we can really talk about what we do and what we don't. But once again, I'm warning you: the investigative commission is not working forensic investigations. But he's doing something else, and he finds political responsibility. More and more, I have the feeling that in some way, what is being done is being done, that actions from the past are trying to be copied and brought about, as if they are happening today. And it goes on and on and it's the same people. In short, anything you'd really like. All right, well, just come in for the day with the facts. I will give you an example of good and bad practice In 2002 and 2004, there were two investigators in this mandate, including the SDS initiative. [[…]] One was led by Mr Kelemina, and one was led by Mr Zammernik. The second was led by a so-called commission of inquiry on the Friday case, which we all know well, and the first one had electricity distribution. In short, an incredible case that ended in the National Assembly so – those who know this, at least one, I think, is sitting in this Chamber and very well knows this – ended, of course, by rejecting the entire report with the Commission's proposal to correct this report. Of course, they corrected this report and Mr Kelemina has come and this report has been rejected again by the entire National Assembly. On the other hand, the so-called Fifth Commission of Inquiry, I use a working title and was supported by Mr Zammernik. We have something similar in this mandate. Do not convince me that we do, because I hope and believe that you will bring all the results to the final report, as is correct, but you have Mr Logar, who is leading the investigative commission – I personally commended him, not only publicly, even in the hallway. I could say, like he runs an investigative committee, that we could follow him on certain things in order to take at least certain steps. It is true, however, that we have also adopted one decision with the Logar Commission, which you have now multiplied into several conclusions. Above all, it is important that we be aware of the following things – the National Assembly cannot take responsibility for the decisions it will have to carry out in the end but are ineligible. Unless you're doing this in order to say to the public: "Look, we did something, but they don't want to. They don't want to." What I'm listening to all the time is telling you that someone is hiding something. In particular, I would like to see that parliamentary practice remains, of course, that the Commission of Inquiry is doing the part that it can, by way of constitution and law, and this is the identification of the political responsibilities of officials or people in public positions, not of people within management. I listened today, I think in one presentation, I think it was from the unrelated Members who said: “Members of the board of institutions are politically appointed and are sitting in the world of the institution and are therefore politically responsible.” Sorry, only those who don't know the statutes and the Law on Public Institutions can say that. I'm sorry. We can talk like this, a little domestically, in the National Assembly, but a member of the Institute's Council is an institution that consists of one institution and there is no political function, at least not a public political personality. I'm sorry, it just doesn't work out. The Commission of Inquiry is increasingly looking into the work that must be done by other authorities, not by the Commission of Inquiry. Let me mention one more thing. Of course, I'll try to get it over with. Article 145 of the Criminal Procedure Act is very clear; “All public authorities and public authorities are obliged to declare offences for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility if they are informed or otherwise known.” And in the second section, “the authorities and organisations referred to in the preceding paragraph must state the evidence they know about and ensure that traces of the crime and the cases on which the offence was committed and other evidence are maintained.” Excuse me, but all of you who have met or found it was a direct crime, you can do it yourself, immediately, on official duty even. You don't have to wait for the National Assembly to, I don't know what on your behalf or even authorize you to do that. It just doesn't work out. I expect that, of course, we will be able to reach a conclusion, especially in the part that this report is not acceptable right now, especially because nothing has yet offered us anything. But we were offered a bunch of confusing, confusing things. Let me just say one thing. If we set up a competition agency in this National Assembly, let us at least refer to it as a rule. We have named it in the decision and such a decision is to be adopted today by an agency that does not exist: “The National Assembly proposes to the Public Competition Agency of the Republic of Slovenia...” I'm sorry. Look at the marriage. This is a public agency of the Republic of Slovenia not for protection, but for protection of competition. Someone will say, irrelevantly, details, but, excuse me, don't let the whole of Slovenia laugh at us. Please! These conclusions are not even correctly written, nor are they in the names of the authorities, except that they make sense or that they have a legal basis and a relationship. In this case, if we adopt such decisions, the National Assembly has exceeded its own powers. And we smile before the Slovenian and international public about what we are actually doing. So, at the end of the day, another suggestion is that she has already discussed or entered as a proponent, Mrs Godec, by way of discussion, if this is not political matters. I hope not, and I don't tell anyone anything, far from this, but the order in which you planned the hearings, or how you're working or gathering data, that's your domain, and I'm not going to get involved in this, but to this day you've heard two ministers, which you mention in the report, the third one probably in the final report and the other three in the truth, I'm going to say, oddly, even after the dates, you're not going in the order. It is interesting, however, that, of course, you haven't heard from your ministers yet. But in fact, from 2008, until 2012, 2013, 2014 as a matter of fact, almost nothing has changed. It only started to change after 2014. This will, of course, be an interesting reading of the final report, so I really appeal, I will not even answer or question, but I certainly know and appeal to all Members, if we have any sense, we cannot accept such conclusions today. However, it is right that the Commission has the opportunity to prove with the final report and, of course, carry out its task as it has taken over. Let him state the political responsibility to determine whether it is not the case or where there are systemic problems and errors within the legislation and to propose certain solutions. These are two key moments for me. But I support everything else, of course. Last but not least, I hope that those who accompany this meeting and read this document, at least the part that is public, can imagine that the origin is always where the money is going. I'm sorry, but public procurement doesn't run politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jelka Godec, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u158	After that in this debate, I now know why the fog is in Ljubljana because you are mixing it and doing it. You're amazing, colleague Möderndorfer, because you say the conclusions are incongruous, not acceptable. You insult your member of the Commission, and now I understand where, in fact, its debate on the investigative commissions in the framework of our meetings. In fact, your words or what you have just said are also her, but interesting is something; not one amendment, not one amendment by the SMC. Not a single one! All the comments that have been made have been unanimously accepted and what you are saying may be suspected of being a coalition invention. It was invented by members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry and I registered it when we wrote it. So, this is an invention that was made there. Mrs Vervega, I'd probably like to ask her why she didn't make the amendments to what we heard today. There's probably some other mistakes, and there's some vocabularies. I even left five days before the last hearing, because they said they would do the vocabulary repair — and then there was no amendment, no comment. Let's just drop it. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, how qualified are you for your investigator to investigate banks? You have forensics? Do you have it? No, you don't have it, and I don't! Just like you think, but I think I have it a little bit more, because I have a little bit of a natural mindset and so on. You can't say about all the members that we're not capable of and that we're making a mess. These are witness statements, evidence in the form of documents, various letters from ministries and so on. So you're saying you trust the NPU, SDT, KPK, so all law enforcement agencies. Not long ago, when you called on me publicly by the SMC and warned me that you were waiting for an interim report and that you were waiting for charges. Today you are saying that the commission of inquiry is not competent to do this; but we have not made any complaints, we have made allegations of crimes. And what you're saying is, if you do, you expect this in the final report. I expect your commission to start working! And I leave you alone, Mr Jani Möderndorfer, I leave the Logar Commission because I have too much work to do with my committee to see whether you are capable of it or not, whether you are doing well or not. Of course, we will read the final report and then find out. I wonder how many times you've been in the safe room, how many times have you seen those five closets full of files? How many times have you sat down and reviewed all this documentation? Do you have any idea how much this was to look at? I think the members of the commission, including your colleague Vesna Vervega, are well aware of this. In fact, I did not take this as a personal insult, but as an insult to all members of the parliamentary commission that we are incapable of working together and not knowing what we are doing. I think all the members tried — well, one said that they were not cooperating and that they were not supporting it. I respect that, too. He told the truth. But you mixed the fog today. You expect us to fix the law – yes, I agree. But look, the law is the law, the law was written like that, and the law was broken. Yeah, he's broken in the past! And we want to bring this here now – we don't have to because they just drove in 2017 and they keep doing it. But it's not here, we're up to 2016. My competence or competence of the commission of inquiry is not in 2017, as your colleague spoke in his position about 2017 and this. It's not our jurisdiction, and I can't judge it. And I judge, yes, from 2003 to 2016. I do not judge, but with the findings and with all these documents we give these allegations of suspicions of crime, we give to the investigating offices, I think NPU, SDT and so on, all of this, including the State Audit and so on, all of this documentation, which you well know to be marked with a degree of secrecy and I don't know what it is. This was discussed with the professional services because this material would go out of the National Assembly to be marked with all the necessary markings, security of secrecy, and so on. You don't think we're that stupid. You say, I trust the NPU, SDT and so on. What do you have to trust if, from 2013 to today, there are no results? Mr. Majhenič said on the investigative commission in public work: “Yes, we have investigated, talked and found certain deviations, just as you have.” So they made a mess of it, too. You say, enacting the law on the system It's just mixing fog and distracting attention from the real problem. [[…]] Once again, the Public Procurement Act entered into force in 2006, is still in force today with various changes, they change in the limits and all others, in small orders, as we have also written, and have beautifully systematically written when any law is and so on. We wrote all the dates by 2016. And once again, the law was like that and what was written in it is suspected to have been in violation of these laws. Members of the commission of inquiry, according to the data we received from UKC Ljubljana and Maribor, we can only review this and believe that they have sent us the right information. However, it is now up to the investigating authorities to investigate this more closely. I must say that this is my personal opinion now, but that is that I do not trust the NPU and SDT, I do not trust the SDT because Mr Harij Furlan, once again when he came before the investigative committee, did not even know what he was: whether he was an official, a public official or what he was. He didn't know! When I asked him what documentation he had, he couldn't tell. And then he told me what he gave us to the NPU. I said, does that mean, this public order -- yeah, I guess. The Lord was completely confused! I'm sorry, but if I didn't know that this was the head of the U.S. Attorney's Office, I don't know what to say. And one more thing. Mr Harij Furlan is the brother of Aleš Furlan, the man who had Primsel's company, who was the only supplier of heart valves, pardon, hips to Novo Gorica. The only and dearest in Slovenia. As soon as he was discovered on TV, he shut down the company. And don't tell me, no one here in the hall will tell me that he doesn't know what his brother or his next of kin is doing if they're in a good relationship. But here you say a word: therefore you know that you cannot say, I don't know what Mr. Podkoresh is doing, but there is only one sitting here with me, but I don't know whether he is a Member or not. To such a man, the head of the NPU, I think SDT – sorry, I find it hard to trust. I find it hard to believe that such a person would put enough energy into health care to investigate it. Another thought gave me, namely, one of the witnesses – I will not say the name – said: “You know something, Mrs Godec, and I am glad that this commission of inquiry has been established, at least someone is investigating something.” Therefore, I do not trust these authorities, which, since 2013, when they had the same anonymity in their hands, the same data has not even come to this, I will say, breaches of public procurement and so on. We don't have personnel, we don't have support, infrastructure, and so on. I believe he probably doesn't, but, excuse me, they probably have more knowledge than we do. However, with all the documents, with everything we tried to be really objective, to examine all the pages, to write in. Also, some of the things that were happening in the media, we basically denied some sort of thing, and we said that it was really just drowning. I must say, I do not allow myself to be insulted by the members of the investigative commission, that you say we made a mess. I won't allow it. However, every member had the possibility to make amendments, and today you had the opportunity to make amendments, corrections, if you noticed, and I noticed, I must admit, wrong statement. But look, you had the opportunity, and now you have to mix fog and put things away from the point – why away from the point? Who's hurting you in there? What's your name hurt? Dr. Matjaž Bunc, perhaps, Brother Violet Bulc? Maybe this part hurts. To tell you, this gentleman has already told Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, a doctor in UKC Ljubljana has seven or seven companies and companies in 2014. And when we asked him to hand over the documentation of his company, because it turned out that on one mission, I also asked him in the public domain, he had a travel order for Hamburg, signed by UKC Ljubljana, paid UKC Ljubljana, accompanied by an account of the hotel where he wrote, paid Matjaž Bunc cardiology, p. p. And I asked him how now who paid it? And that's why we went into the investigation, because the suppliers also said that some of them also pointed to their societies and espies. And when I asked Mr Matjaž Bunc to hand over the company's documentation, you will not believe that he went to the Constitutional Court because I asked or the investigative commission had decided to hand over travel and social donations. And the gentleman went to the Constitutional Court and at the same time demanded that the execution of the file be suspended. We won yesterday, you won't believe he went to the Supreme Court so he wouldn't hand over travel orders. Travel orders! And now I'm curious about what's in travel assignments and these donations. The Supreme Court rejected him. Mr Masleša is signed that Mr Bunc must submit all the documentation of his societies and of all the espies. As far as Youth and KB are concerned. You're saying that Mr. Janez Janša is insulted and that's why he brought this matter in. Did Mr. Janez Janša sell vascular resistors and owned Mladina, KB, Mark Medica? Did he sell shares? No, no, no. Clearly, I have shown, I don't know, mate, I think you've been in there; KB 1909 is a financial company from Italy that had different fields under its umbrella, including this publishing media work and medical work. By the end of 2015, the medical part was the one that was essentially making the most of this company’s profits. On the other hand, the publishing work is one of the losers, if that's what we're saying in concoctions. And of course there are suspicions. I can't imagine, I don't know if my colleague Pojbič used to explain that I'm going to Mrs. Brinovski's and I say, look, you got 200 000 euros here, give Anja the equity share of a company, and then bring it to me. That's what they were doing. KB gave 200 000 euros to Mr Repovž to buy the share of Youth from Mr Zavrl and bring it back to KB, at the same time. Where was the tax paid? Where did this transaction take place? All the companies have cooperated with us, I must say, everyone has sent us all the documentation, except Youth, with arrogance, to look wherever we want. Let's look everywhere we want reports. And, of course, there is a suspicion, I think, or rather, we have asked it on the commission of inquiry itself. Why? See, 200 000 euros in KB could have come from this medical work. The money to recapitalize Youth, Distriest and all the others, including the other companies, but we wrote these two in the act, could have come from medical work. Thus, the money of taxpayers, where we have already shown the overpayment of vascular support, then the overpayments to public contracts past contracts and so on, this money, which was essentially obtained in some illegal way, could also be used to recapitalise certain companies in Italy, as confirmed by Mr Peric, who said that Vega Finanz, who was just getting money, was also using money to recapitalise companies in Italy. Why not even in Slovenia KB? This is a question which, of course, is now for law enforcement authorities. This is a question that still remains, of course, here to investigate, because you know well that you come across Italy or across the border a little bit harder, but certain documents are, which can confirm it. But there's something else interesting that I said before quickly, because there wasn't much time, but maybe it was a coincidence, maybe not. In 2006, when KB entered the property of Mark Medicala, it began to sell vascular support in Slovenia fast and from 2007, 2008 to 2010 for more than 2 million and a half million over-procurement via public tenders. During this time there was also a change in ownership and property purchase within KB and Mark Medicala. Those of you who have read the report will understand, I mean, you understand what I'm saying, what I'm saying. And the same happens again in 2012, as this increase increases here, there is a significant increase in the over-bidding of public invitations to tender for Mark Medical from Slovenia, there is the purchase of ownership shares for Vega Finanz and so on. So this money could, I say again, go from medical work to recapitalisation. If Mr Peric says that yes, there has been a recapitalisation of companies in Italy, the question is also raised by and probably also by all the other members who have confirmed this, whether in Slovenia, perhaps even for the recapitalisation of companies in Slovenia. And that's why we took this part, looked at it, and I have to say that today, Mr Kordish, when he spoke, it's like I'm reading Mr Repovž's article. I'm sorry, but I already told him that, I think, once. And I have not experienced such arrogance from anyone I have also experienced by this company, the company, even the material, etc. Everyone cooperated, no one was blocking the case, except Dr. Bunz and Mladina and SDT, who didn't want to sell the files that went all the way to court. The NPU gave us documentation, the KPK cooperated, and I also had discussions with the State Audit Commission, i.e. with various authorities. We even allowed the NPU, we allowed it, because it was not allowed, we did not allow it, we allowed it to enter the safe room to review the documentation at the same time as we are investigating. At the same time. And I say once again, what Mr Jani said in his debate, it was overwhelming that this is impossible to accept, then I would expect the amendments to be discussed, I would expect your colleague to make this clear to the investigative committee, at the meetings, etc. Now I'm surprised. Now I'm really surprised because there was no objection because she was in favour. I don't know what kind of morale you have, raise your hand for it, and then at the National Assembly meeting, you say that it's smoldering and you can't confirm it. And I say again, what you're saying, let's talk about the report itself, don't look for the comma where the comma is wrong. I think there's quite a few. But if you're looking for the commas in the report, it means that people, everything, the National Assembly, Members, you're putting it all on the second track so that you don't think about what the real problem is. And that's what you were trying to do today. And once again, yes, I'm going to tell the public, you, you, you, you, you, in the SMC or these Members were against this report because you're going to make the conclusions go away. That's an excuse, an excuse, because something really bothers you. Now I've listed a few things that really bother you inside of it. And I say again, it is true that none of us in the National Assembly is qualified for criminal work – only if someone has ever worked on the police or anywhere, but we are not so qualified – but those who work for the good and do not think in the direction left or right in these cases, let us take a deep look, study and try and try and believe that we also do our job properly. I don't know why you set up a commission, if you think it's a complete mess or something. But it is true that this investigator of ours is the first to make such allegations of crimes. Maybe it hurts again. I have already said many times, and I think that my colleagues, as well, that the final report below, which will also give answers, is likely why ministries or ministers have not done certain things or could, or could not, or what things have been. You surprise me by trying to get the whole thing in a different direction in your debate and by not sticking to the report. I know that you weren't in the safe room, that you weren't looking at the material, so I'm surprised you had this idea that the job was badly done. I think that all the members, once again, and I'm going to take them to the defense, have done their best work, helped, and I think that this is a matter that can be the basis for all those state authorities that you trust to investigate all these things, cast aside or confirm suspicions or whatever. Of course, with these conclusions, which are also strange to you, let them report to us, we will ask a little questions about these matters. Of course, because if you do something in a year and a half, you search, I won't tell you how many pages, because that's not the point at all, then from someone who gives it to him, so you can ask what you've done at the time. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u160	Yes, colleague Godec, I'm a little surprised, especially because you took it so personally. Far from that, no one, as you have concluded in the end, is qualified for criminal work within the investigative commission, but this is not the task of the investigative commission at all. That's the whole point. Secondly, I did not talk about the knowledge of the members and the Commission, the President, but I did talk about forensic investigations, which I am sure of, not me, not you, not you, none of you, is qualified here, unless in practice he was doing so, and let him raise his hand and the matter is resolved. But the Members are not elected after what we know that we will be able to do certain things. It's another term. What I am warning, and I have made very clear in my debate, and here we did not understand each other, is just a warning, an investigative commission to identify political responsibility and systemic legislation where it needs to be rectified. And that's what I warned you about. No one told you to work too little. What's more, I've made it very clear to you that you're well-known for being good and hardworking. But it didn't produce the fruits, the ones I expected. I have to go to a safe room and watch what you do and look at the documents? Why is that? The Commission of Inquiry has therefore been set up. I've got enough work to do. But at least I expected you to be my investigator now, which you will still have the opportunity when the time comes to discuss it, and we'd rather talk then, and then, of course, you can tell me what you want, but today I just want to point out things that are what they are. As a Member of the Republic of Slovenia, I trust the law enforcement authorities of the executive and judicial branches of power. I trust her. Are individuals within these organs and various authorities who are making scoundrels and breaking the law? Of course they are. Of course they are, but they need to be proven. It seems fair to me that we live in a state of law. Nothing else. Now that you're telling me about Furlan today, I don't even know him personally. You're telling me about Dr. Bulc. I'm sorry. I haven't seen him in my life. That's it. I don't even know. And if there's anything on it, do it. I totally support it, but you picked the wrong one to tell him what he's afraid of. Far from it. Colleague Godec, I'm not looking for commas and vocabularies, because in every marriage we could find them everywhere, but when we draw conclusions that we don't even name the right agency, it's no longer a comma and a vocabulary error, but it's an agency that doesn't exist. That's the difference. That's why I'm saying at least that's what we should do. And that wasn't my main purpose and the message that we wouldn't get along the wrong way. Not at all. I told you that you have the opportunity to lead the report to the point you wanted. Whether you want it or not, that's different. But as for your boss's youth, it's hard to discuss today. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u161	Three minutes, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u162	And convince me that the Youth was randomly chosen. [[…]] The youth has been chosen for purpose. And we all know how this story went, so we can spend another minute and a minute here, and there's nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u164	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf, too! First of all, thank the President and all members of this commission for the work they have done, although these quality Members could do something else than investigate this Slovenian filth of individuals. This is the case with this Commission of Inquiry led by Mrs Godec, and this is also the case with the Commission of Inquiry led by Dr Logar. Two extremely high-quality Members could do something else, which is my personal opinion. When we set up this committee, I can't say I'm happy, but I'm sad to support this commission. Sadly, though, because I anticipated and realized that hard and dirty work was ahead of them. I too have listened attentively today to all the views of the members of the groups. I think it was very quality, except for one that's not even worth mentioning. She had an extremely good report, and in particular, I have left the Lady of Desus in memory. Now that we have listened to the Member, a little earlier, it is a classic example of why this is the situation in Slovenia. When we've even listened to a high-quality report this afternoon, I repeat, for this desecration of individuals who have also been mentioned today, and someone from the largest coalition party wants to hit the president and wants to hit all the members who have worked extremely well in this investigative commission. For one simple reason – to turn the winds and attention in another direction, as if nothing had happened, the report was inquality, and the branches were looking for where they were missing. But I think it's the opposite here that it hurts a quality report. The MP who spoke before me must have hurt a quality report that gives results. Of course, to all of us, Members and Members of Parliament, it is, if we know the work of the Commission of Inquiry or our colleagues to respect and if we want good health, then we will support it. However, we must be careful that we do not fall for the tricks that Mr Jani has performed now for fifteen minutes. This is a trick from a Member who has, of course, replaced five parties. We must be aware of how strong the pressures must be from someone who today has also spoken against his MPs, against the MPs of the coalition, to work in a qualityless manner. What power must be from behind? This is a clear indication of why such a situation is in health care, why such a situation is in the judiciary, and why there are more institutions in the judiciary. Of course, if we had the sincere desire and will, even on the government's side, to turn something around with this compass that this investigative commission has given us, of course, the Justice Minister, the Minister of Health, and the Minister of the Interior would also be sitting here. And, of course, by clicking to confirm this report, of course, we should be most pleased with the three and wrap up our sleeves and ask this investigative committee to complete its work as soon as possible, to complete the final report and the dirty ones for whom this investigative commission had to be set up, a dam for safekeeping. Of course, with great responsibility, I will support this interim report. However, I want you to complete this quality work as soon as possible for the good of Slovenian health and for the good of Slovenians and Slovenes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Lisec has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. There are no government representatives when such matters happen in the field of health and there are no interim reports, nor is the Minister of Health, because she probably has heartaches when she listens to what is wrong with health, the Minister of Justice is fighting for other functions and running from the Government, and the President of the Government is not even aware of what the rule of law is anymore, so he has a problem with legal matters and the legislative procedure and he knows the authorities. So the government's failure to respond accurately shows what he thinks about the Slovenian judicial system, but mainly about the Slovenian health system and, most importantly, about Slovenian patients. Because of this, even because of what is written here, they pay higher services and wait a long time in line. I have to say, as far as I can monitor all the investigators in front of the TV screens or the office in the National Assembly. It is obvious that a colleague of Jelka Godec and co-workers or members of the commission of inquiry have done a top-notch job, which is only in half, because, as has already been said, today we have an interim report ahead of us. But Jelka has done too well, this is seen today in the implementation of the middle part of the policy, when certain political ties in health care have come too quickly or too intensely to the plan. In short, in this interim report we can see what is happening in the healthcare system. If you ask an average citizen, someone who goes beyond the primary level, where there is as much care for them as there is, but there are important roles of the local community, they will say, yes, we have good doctors, we have good nurses, but unfortunately the whole health system is one corruption and customerism. And that is exactly what the Commission of Inquiry, led by colleague Jelka, would like to show, of course, within the capacity afforded by the Commission of Inquiry and by Members themselves in this work. And that is why I am surprised to hear today that, two hours ago, for the first time in public, I also heard from one Member that the Modern Centre Party is supposed to be – and we know that they are not even close to the customer of the centre, or even modern – that not only does it have a lot of problems with this interim report, but the majority of these Members tend not to support this interim report today. And what are the conclusions in this interim report of the Commission of Inquiry? To inform the key authorities of all the work that Jelka’s colleague has done with the members and members of the commission of inquiry, who will then do their business. Here today we are saying that the material is being transmitted to the National Investigation Office, but we already have a problem, at least those who have been following politics for some time now, the role of the National Investigation Office, which sometimes works through the system I can't see, I can't hear anything. After it is forwarded to the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission, I hope that there will be more impact. To be forwarded to the Financial Administration, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, the State Audit Commission and so on. In short, what is going on in the field of vein support is presented to the key authorities and then they carry out their task. But I'm very afraid that it's going to be the same thing that happened at the investigative commission's own meetings when people were invited and they had a lot of problems with either cooperation or a disease called short-term memory loss. And I am very afraid that all those bodies to whom this interim report is to be transmitted will also have certain problems. There will probably be someone here and there who will say that it does not touch them, that it is the task of another body, that it is something other organ, some other person, some other person, I purposely stress this, because it is always then a matter of some kind of spinning and eventually it is a matter of losing. In order for these authorities to look forward to the end of the term of office, and then probably no longer to this commission of inquiry, it will obviously have to be set up with other mandates, because they will need to do something again, we say, to wire them to do something. They don't turn over two sheets of paper within one year, but within one year they turn over a mountain of papers, and above all they do what is so investigative and all the other authorities can do what they are set up to do. I personally expected that today, in essence, we would say, according to the views of the parliamentary groups, because we are in agreement, we are going to vote, colleague Jelka has done a lot of work and we are going forward, but – and I will also slowly conclude – colleague Jelka has done too good a job. Certain links between a particular political sphere, between certain organisations, between certain companies, between certain media and on the other hand, also between certain individuals who suddenly lose what is called a brotherly influence, a sister's influence, a relative influence that is suddenly a problem. So today I am not surprised by the story of one of the fictional news media when they have problems that in one party the children of officials work for what they have been trained to do. That's the problem. On the other hand, this fake news medium has almost no hearing to write a huge number of things that could be found in this material if we could untangle how related politics, a certain part of the health lobby and a certain part of the media scene. We're not gonna follow that. Therefore, it may be right that at least those who know that systemic corruption in the field of health should be said are sufficient to show that by sitting on an investigative committee they are doing what they are set up to do. Therefore, I hope, with respect, that these decisions will be taken unanimously, not only to be transmitted to certain bodies, institutions, but also to those bodies and institutions in the future, so that this will be visible not only through the media, but also as it is written here, that they will report to us as legislative branches of the authorities on progress in the pursuit of corruption and criminal offences in the matter. Once again, thanks to the members of the commission of inquiry for the work that has been done so far. I hope that we will get a final report as soon as possible and that the official institutions and bodies will do what they are called upon to investigate corruption in this area. But it is only the tip of the icy mountain of corruption in the health system paid by people, as has already been said, through too expensive services and too long waiting types. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Get Dr. Ange Logar ready. Here you go, Mrs. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As a member of the investigative commission, I must say that I am saddened by the fact that my colleague Jana has given me that this interim report has essentially been marred by someone. I must say, we've spent hours and hours. Even before we confirmed the interim report, we confirmed it three times, or we discussed how to arrange it, how to prepare it, so that it would actually be as necessary. Now that we have entered these possible suspicions, this was on our initiative, I will say, otherwise not possible, but suspicion, because in the first draft of this report were actually facts. And then I kind of had a thought, and my knowledge of it doesn't allow me to say that someone committed a crime, and we just came to the conclusion that they did. However, the suspicions were presented at the hearings, we met them, or we saw them. We've heard 35 witnesses, we've done two trials. During the hearings, we had a lot of problems with the quorum, as a colleague of the President said. Somehow we were trying to coordinate to actually ensure coherence, because all of us, those who had this interest, were to hear what was going on. I must say that I have missed a few times, but I must say that I was happy to read this interim report. The first part of the interim report summarises all the main sections of the hearings, the main findings, and I must say they give you some thread. Certainly, it is undeniable that there is a reasonable suspicion that the responsible persons have violated public procurement. And on this site, I also asked the responsible persons several times at the hearing: “Are they aware of the message we are giving to the public?” “We have adopted legislation that we do not respect. Then why are we sitting? Why are we adopting legislation?" I asked them a question. Then it is better that we all leave things together, go our separate ways, calm down, and simply do not need the National Assembly in this case. For the law is passed in order that it may be respected. And it's simply unacceptable. To hear this then by responsible persons, that public procurement was being violated. I believe that when there is a valid reason, but I believe that there is no such thing in hospitals when it comes to life or death, to order or supply a vein support, but I believe that every hospital has a supply of a vein support, that in the event of such a case, they can do what is necessary as a matter of urgency. A lot of material was examined, as I said, by a lot of witnesses. Even with Dr. Kanič mentioning that he had actually donated two stents to a colleague of another hospital, I wondered where the competent institutions were. At that point, all the alarms should be on fire, because this was about the taxpayer's money, 2,000 euros. It's probably one small operation, and he just didn't think it was a big deal. Personally, I find that very controversial. True, at the time of this investigator or hearing, I often wondered whether I was looking for political responsibility or was learning about all these cords. Many times, the debates were a little bit out of context, but nevertheless, it was the whole focus. There was a search for connections, connections, where the money was leaking, why the venous cords were overpaid. In the closed parts of the meetings, we found a number of other things that were going on. It's even more frightening and worrying. I think that further to this investigative commission we will come to this political responsibility, it is already indicated. I believe that it will also be political responsibility to continue with all these witnesses that we anticipate. I also think that at the time of this investigation, who has read the entire report, which is very extensive, some 400 pages cover, possible solutions to the systemic change of legislation have also been given. In this context, I hope that the Ministry will read it too, because I think that, during the debate, we have also presented this during the hearings. I believe this is one of the starting points. But it certainly saddens me that this money has actually run out, I'll say, in private pockets. We do not have this task or are not trained enough to say who and where and under what conditions, but the material has a variety of clear and loud results. According to colleague Brinovšek, 4 million euros in cash have been overpaid in the UKC. That's scary data. Really simple, are we aware of what could be done with this money? This money could stay in UKC Ljubljana. It is unlikely that this loss would not be as great as we have saved it or as we will remedy it with an intervention measure. And it's all to think about. As I mentioned in the Group's position, the management system is key. If leadership is bad, then everything from below is bad, but as with this committee or with all these indications that they are, everything has already rotted in its very foundations. So here I think that SDT, the NPU has to play its part. I must say that I have been truly disappointed at the hearings of individual members of these important institutions, because they do not have certain things completely cleared up. I didn't have some things myself, but if I were in a position like this, I'd definitely know a lot more because I'd learn so long to learn. But one of them actually takes the job, and they don't know why they're taking it. So much at first, but I'll take some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u169	Mr. Ange Logar has the floor. Prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert and Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you, President. Today, the President of the Republic said that health care is one of the areas with the largest, if I say so at home, deficits in reforms. There are 250,000 people in waiting lines, abnormal conditions, overpayments, hospital losses. The ultimatums of darkness. The most important topic at the end of the day. Let us see how many Members sit on this subject in this National Assembly. So when there's microphones and cameras there, everyone's loud about how they're going to change things, how they're going to reform, how this minister is oh and at all, when there's actually something to do, and this will is diminishing, she's not. I listened in detail to the representative of Desus and the representative of the SD in the opening presentation, and I must say that I am signing under what they said. I expose them so that I don't expose my colleague Godec, who comes from the same party. In fact, I will not say that this topic is politically coloured, but that the two coalition parties tell in fact how unacceptable the situation is in the health system and how epochal and key the Commission of Inquiry has come to. Then comes SMC Member Jani Möderndorfer, who spits out everything he doesn't create here in his old purpose. Now I have to say, whoever's watching this session is a little confused. The vast majority of the members of the investigative commission support this report and support these findings and are appalled at the state of the health sector, the largest party representative, that is, those who have the most votes, have the most leverage to change, and those who are now at hand, if you have two spelling errors in the second decision, so we cannot fix this. Look at how this coalition works, and I'm not gonna say this coalition, but the biggest coalition party is in the process of reforming health care. If this commission of inquiry were not available, the medical overpayment would not be discussed today. We would only have an official statement by the Minister, how everything is fine, an official statement by the First Minister, namely the President of the Government, that we are the patients responsible for waiting types because we are waiting in line. See what's really going on, but it wouldn't be. They would not have known that stent providers had directed individuals, individual physicians or those responsible to choose to purchase more of these stents or their contracts. They wouldn't know it was swimming in a shark pool. We wouldn't have any key evidence of that. Today we have this and we can take action on this basis. And we wouldn't know that even in this area, like, for example, another one, the law enforcement agencies don't work. That there must be a parliamentary investigative commission so that someone who is otherwise primarily responsible for repression, i.e. persecution, crime, whatever it is called, yes, thank you for starting with this, because otherwise we would not be able to make progress. Look, and this is a direct benefit and a good result of the commission of inquiry. And those who participate in the commission of inquiry as a political party, besides spitting at the commission of inquiry, are doing the greatest harm to themselves and the reputation of the National Assembly and ultimately to all those who are trying and who are trying to change something in this country. I'm just going to give you one example from this investigative committee to show you the actual state of the situation in this healthcare system. The veins, as we can learn from this report, were in our system between 2003 and 2016, 3 to 5 times more expensive than abroad, in other countries. How are we so rich that we can afford 3- to 5-times more expensive blood support? And when one Polish bidder shows up offering half the price of a stint, than the one who made 250 million euros in the 12 years at the expense of taxpayers, do you know what happens? After two months, he has to stop the supply because he who earns 250 million calls the contractor and says that one of the non-conspiracy shows up and offers your stents half as cheap as we do, let's press on him. After two months, he stops the supply. To make it even more strange, someone who has 56% of the stent market is afraid and immediately engrossed, immediately when someone who has a.35% stent market appears. Can you imagine? If you, for example, managed to sell thousands of euros a month to the National Assembly, it would mean that you would be afraid of someone who sells 7 euros a month. I believe we wouldn't be dealing with him at all. But no, the one who makes 250 million euros with our taxpayer's money for 3- to 5-time overpaid medical supplies is also intimidated by a competitor who has only 0.35% of the market. As you can see, after two months he had to close the stall. That's what's going on. That's why I said swimming pool because sharks swim. And thank God someone shows it and shows it with evidence. I'm waiting for the law enforcement authorities to do something about it. I hope that reason will prevail in this National Assembly and that this report will also be supported by an appropriate majority. Because today it is decided in essence that those who vote against or will not vote will abstain, are satisfied with the status quo, are satisfied with 250,000 waiting lines, are satisfied that those who have more than half the market dictate who can enter the market and who cannot enter the market are satisfied that individuals receive payments to order certain products, precisely certain products. And nothing will change. However, those who want to change something will be voted in favour of this report. And I hope that, at the end of this debate, reason will prevail and that one very important message will be sent to the public to promise change in the field of health, only the right people should be allowed to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u171	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mr Branko Zorman and the mags. Andrey Shircelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. We have talked many times about the health situation in our country. Then, in fact, we cry in almost one voice, how everything is bad and what needs to be done. What about today? There's a report on the table, 334 pages, and you can find the findings, and you can find some confessions in it. But, Your Honor, it is only one small area – finding abuses in the area of sales and purchasing venous cords. There was a tremendous amount of work done. It was carried out by all the members of the Commission who, of course, attended these meetings, I have to exempt Levica here, but it is a shame to expose them at all, and of course also the President. They told themselves about the problems they faced. But the final goal has been achieved. 334 pages. All that needs to be done now is for our law enforcement authorities to move forward and actually act. Unfortunately for all of this, there's only one area open here. I fear that if we went to open every area to actually find the same or similar sins. Then we will no longer ask ourselves where the money that is intended for health care is leaking, which is intended for patients who are meant to reduce waiting periods and are intended for quality doctors. But the largest SMC party with the highest responsibility also because she is a minister of their kind does not actually discuss it today. What the fellow Member was babbling about today was not a debate, at least not a debate about the veins and the problem ahead. There's also no one from the Ministry. If the minister cannot, she does not feel it important to send someone to the National Assembly and to listen to this subject, which is more than problematic. You can't defend this. This is totally unacceptable. Let me now talk about the content of the report itself, and I find it really scandalous. 4.1m euros in public contracts without a legal basis. 4.1 million, Your Honor! Come in. Worse data, 5.1 million euros we overpaid the venous braces. We overpaid them because we decided on a more expensive way. 5.1 million. And now I'm going to tell you what that means in numbers, because people quickly mix up a little number, and I'm going to tell you what that means today, what that means, on some other case. Two thirds of Slovenian citizens do not exceed the average wage. We know how many are on minimum wage. Let me tell you, that's about 8,000 minimum wages. We know about newborns that we keep saying how big a problem we have in Slovenia, because we are getting older and we are one of the oldest societies not only in Europe, in the world. Newborns receive or receive from their newborns 280 euros from the country, in which case they would get almost 600 euros if they used that money for smart things and not for someone filling their own pockets at the expense of taxpayers. Dearly beloved, 31 thousand 875 children's meals are this amount. 31 thousand 857 whole-year lunches. Next, it's 10,000, 200 pensions. And we know how our pensioners live. I hope you're talking to citizens and citizens. If we opened up a fund to help those we throw on the road for 200 euros and deposit, can you imagine how many families and individuals we would save for that money? And more. Whoever followed the media yesterday could hear that there are 30 doctors in Maribor for general medicine and that people no longer come to a personal doctor because they can no longer take new patients under the law and there are no doctors. They don't have a doctor, and they go from Pontius to Pilate to get a doctor. This amount, with which we overpaid the venous cords, amounts to 178 doctors for one year. 178 paid doctors for one year. I hope you realize what this money means and what you could do with that money. Then here, from the Member of the largest coalition party, I hear how this commission has done nothing. I don't know, let's let him laugh at himself, but let's not make him laugh at the entire National Assembly, but let's not make citizens and citizens laugh in the first place. The findings are clear. Millions of overpaid money, one way or another, is a clear responsibility, which those who have read the report can also read and see, and we are moving. All of these things, but you know, when there can be a variety of cords and there will probably be more of these stories, I hope that now many in the country will talk repeatedly about the different forms of corruption in our system when they see that things are moving, and I hope they will, and the commission run by such a colleague of mags. Anže Logar, as well as the commission led by Jelka Godec, are certainly helping to do so. I hope, I hope, that we will take important steps also to protect taxpayers' money and to put it where the state needs it. Of course, it is in the best interests of someone in this country to have disorder and disorder in their health. But I know this for sure, and I know that the individuals with Ambassador Janie at the helm do not mind that some of the roads lead to Youth. But that's his problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u173	Mr Branko Zorman has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Andrej Shircelj and Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. President. For starters, of course, what the Commission has found, all of these practices that have been discussed before, this is of course a crime. I hope that those who have participated in these practices will be successfully processed, eventually successfully or successfully, through the entire judicial system and eventually convicted. Last but not least, as has been said many times, this was done at the expense of all of us. From the very beginning, when we set up this commission of inquiry a year and a half ago, it was clear that this commission of inquiry or the proposaler of the establishment was not only intended to explore this area, which is undoubtedly very problematic, but that this commission would, of course, be used for when it comes to talking about Slovenian health and what is wrong there and when it will have to be pointed out to those who are, of course, associated with this health care, both the Minister, the President and the rest, of course, also the Handsome Coalition Members. The Commission has now been set up primarily to identify political responsibility or to identify the responsibility of public officials, i.e. political officials. And here is the first problem that I personally have with the functioning of this commission, and the doubt that, of course, opens up, which speaks about the fact that the Commission does not act objectively and impartially. I will base this argument on the fact that if we look at one of the political officials who has been heard on this committee so far, this committee has been operating for a year and a half and has not started from nothing or started from nothing in some way, but the facts it has discovered are no different than they were known before this commission started working. So far, we have interviewed three former ministers, Minister Marusic, Minister Gantar and Minister Miklavčič. Unlike Mr Gantar, who was also a minister in your government, both ministers from the governments of some other sex. I am very pleased that, of course, I can discuss this completely without burden, given that we have not previously been in one government or another and, of course, we have no responsibility for what has been done in the past, we do not feel it, nor can we bear it. Now I ask myself, of course, since 2006, since the Commission has been investigating these abuses in this area of the acquisition of vein support, you have, of course, been the proponents of this commission of inquiry twice in the Government. But there haven't been any ministers from your term of office at the hearing. If you are researching some practice that has taken place over the last ten years, then I think it would be objective even before this interim report, that of course you also invite these and hear the other side. I especially believe that you might say something new, given that they are not from the field you attribute to in fact that they are the source of all these abuses, but of course I have no sympathy for anyone that we are in the clear. Instead, the Commission of Inquiry was, of course, dealing with the process of these acquisitions, with these unfair practices themselves, and of course, as far as this is concerned, a very useful work has been done. I only hope that this information will further help all those bodies that have already done this work by the Commission of Inquiry, but given the number of forecasting procedures and other matters, I really cannot be optimistic right now. But as we say, this is now an interim report, the final report is coming and we will talk about it when the time is right. As it is said, it bothers me that you are using this commission to set up some valuable judgments on Slovenian health care, as well as colleague Logar's colleagues Bah just now and so on. At the same time, you call on others to talk about the subject of this commission of inquiry, and you have, of course, been using this persistently for a year and a half. Then perhaps at closed work, if there is time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u175	Ms Jelka Godec, President of the Commission of Inquiry, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u176	Yes, Mr. Zorman, just this. We started with nothing, with some newspaper articles, with an anonymity that NPU has since 2013 and we have since the beginning of 2016. What is mentioned here is something new, and there are facts, documentation, and recorded statements of witnesses. However, with regard to the political responsibility and the call of ministers, a decision or agreement was first reached with your colleague, who I have not yet heard from today, but only with Mr Jani Möderndorfer's lawyer and you, to call on ministers who had full powers to defend themselves, so that we do not call on Mr Jerjavc, Mrs Skaz or Mrs Bratušek, who did not have full powers as ministers or were for 2, 3 months, because then you will say that we are dealing with irrelevant ministers, but at the end we have taken a decision or also on a proposal, I think that one of the members should also put these people on the list of witnesses. So you keep talking, there's no political responsibility, and then at the same time, you say there's still time. If you read the Parliamentary Commission decision-making act itself, however, a colleague of yours who pleads against political responsibility writes: “To determine the possible responsibility of the holders of public functions who are to participate in the preparation and execution of the procurement procedure in the area of the acquisition of vascular cords, due to the suspicion of the presence of corruption...” And so on. In the second point: "Find out what is the possible responsibility of former and current public function holders in institutions carrying out health activities at secondary and tertiary level in the Republic of Slovenia related to the sale and purchase of venous braces." I did not know that the Ministry belonged to a secondary and tertiary level and that it was engaged or that it was engaged in procurement. So, why don't you read it, tell the public what the act says, and stop deceiving yourself with political responsibility. Yes, indeed, I agree, the parliamentary inquiry, the commission of inquiry is also looking for political responsibility, but in the act we have followed and the report says that we are sticking to all the points that are in the decision-making act of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. And now if you are in the report, which everyone is saying today, how extensive it is, and I have already said it, it doesn't matter, you don't find responsible carriers, but I will tell you: Mr Simon Vrhunc, responsible holder of public office in UKC Ljubljana, Director; Mr Gregor Pivec, Director of UKC Maribor; Mr Mag. Bojan Uran, Head of Procurement Service; Mr Darko Zorman, Head of the catheter laboratory, Decision-makers in the procurement of vascular resistors; Dr. Kanič in Maribor, responsible holder of the call committee for the preparation of professional works in this and so on; Dr. Matjaž Bunc, Head of the catheter laboratory in UKC Ljubljana; Dr. Dragan Kovacič, Head of the cardio department in Celje. It is therefore a matter of identifying the possible responsibility of the former, current holders of public functions who manage secondary and tertiary functions in the Republic of Slovenia. Don't tell me we're not doing what's in the Act establishing a parliamentary commission of inquiry. However, if these doubts existed with you from the beginning, it was said, and then you had your representative on the committee who could point out this, make comments and suggest that you attend the meeting, I don't know, 65th, invite this and this minister and let us hear him out. No problem. No problem, but you didn't, and I'm not saying we should, but we could.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u177	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get Mr. Jože Tanko ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, congratulations to the committee for the work done, rich content work, analytical work and, in fact, work that says what is expected of such a commission. Here, of course, we are talking about the fact that this partial report has removed the curtain over Slovenian health care. In fact, it has been shown to some actors who are making Slovenian health care, that we have a number of problems in Slovenian health care, especially we do not have enough money. Too Little Money — Why? Because we're buying too expensive material and buying too expensive equipment. From the report itself, it has already been mentioned that the equipment purchased by health care has been overpaid for 3 to 5 times, even if it is only 3 times. I looked at how much he gave the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana in 2016 for the purchase of material. He gave 165 million. If this is twice as much, then 80 million is too much at the University Clinical Center. Twice too much of course means that because of this, there is a lack of money in health care and that we have recently come to the conclusion that Slovenian health care is additionally financed with 136 million. Why? Because part of the money went into private pockets and then from this money was financed by various companies that influence the media space that affect the actual social mood and values in Slovenia. And this is actually happening in Slovenia. Finally, the Commission itself draws attention to this when it states that such actions, illegal, unprofessional, partly corrupt practices could lead to a possible reduction in the volume of health services and an increase in the costs of services provided, a reduction in resources for health. This, of course, also reduces the fairness, quality and efficiency of health activities. And today, one of the news is that in the Kranj Health Center, it has simply come to be full and that it no longer accepts new patients or there are only few places left for new patients. Which means, in other words, that people in Slovenia will not have provided health care because there is not enough funding for health care and because too much money has gone private. And that shows, with names and surnames, the partial report of the commission of inquiry. And this is, in my opinion, one of the values of this report, one of the essential values of this report, that on this basis it is possible not only to introduce all the procedures that are necessary in relation to people who have broken the law, but to put simple health care on different, if you want, sound foundations. He doesn't seem to accept this part of the coalition. I support, of course, the opinion given by Desus, the opinion given by the Social Democrats, and I am pleased by such opinions. On the other hand, I wonder whether the opinion of the SMC, the opinion of Mr Möderndorfer and, in part, the opinion of Mr Zorman is, perhaps, the opinion of Mrs Vesna Verveg, who in a different way wanted to say this in a better way, but was a member of this Commission. Today to find the reasons that the very establishment was wrong, that there were some anomalies, that there were some intentions of the Slovenian Democratic Party in the establishment of this commission, see, this is too late and wrong today. What's bothering you here? Say it loud and clear. Are these certain names appearing in this report? Say it loud and clear. Today, to say that this report has offered nothing, I quote Mr Möderndorfer, see, this is not a lie, this is simply an absurd claim. This report pointed to the content of the problem of Slovenian health care and pointed to actors who are at the heart of the problem of Slovenian health care. That is why, of course, I strongly reject such an opinion. On the other hand, do not base your decisions on irrational, absurd opinions, say with the right words, if anything bothers you. I will support this partial report. I expect the commission to continue its work. Of course, it will be much easier to continue working if you also support this report by your colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u179	Mr Jože Tanko has the word and then we are going to the conclusion of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, we finally got one report from the investigative commission on the table, where the findings and conclusions did not make an anonymisation of the findings, but rather personalisation. This is said to be attributed to the persons who actually caused it, and it is not generalised, but it is written very correctly and specifically. In fact, such investigative reports are expected when these investigation procedures are ongoing and are ordered by the National Assembly. It is obvious that such an approach is a problem for some in the coalition, because the parties who have very many sociologists in their composition, who very much like to talk in general after long and after, are very much avoiding discussions where the specific facts, actions, names, etc. are mentioned. As a result, this is one of the values of this report. The second thing that really bothers me about all of this is the total absence of the government. Today, in dealing with this major health problem, there is not a single government representative. I have pointed out at the College that it would be reasonable and right for the Government to apply to the debate in those cases where there is no proposal for a point, as in some other cases, in laws and the like, but obviously the Government did not take advantage of it. And today, if the government had announced the time, sent a minister or a secretary of state, it would have been an excellent opportunity for the government to say what it had done this year and a half this year, to take action and where it had fixed and improved things. I would expect that today, for example, in this debate. Not only are we now talking about each other, but the Government has come up with some concrete facts, actions that have been done in this period in the field of too expensive purchases, in this case or in general in other rationalisations in the healthcare system. But apparently expecting something like this from a minister who's having a hard time speaking in his defense of interpretation is probably too much. It would be very interesting to know what the Government has done during this period in the field of human resources matters through its authorities, through its members appointed to the bodies of the institutions which have been the subject of the investigation in the case of venous fittings. How did they act? Which persons were suspended? What people have they replaced? Who did they put in criminal proceedings? Who they put in the process to determine the origin of the property, etc. This would be the right question and the right answer to the report of this Commission of Inquiry by the Executive Branch of the Authority. None of that. The main response of the Government to all of these findings that we have witnessed to them today and which we have been monitoring during this period is the intervention law. An additional nearly €140 million in the health system to cover losses. The underlying reason for the losses in health care institutions, and also probably in the case of health bills, is exactly what we are talking about today. If we simply generalise this and extend it to the entire health treasury, the outflow from the health system for such and similar stories is about 20% to 30% of the money earmarked for this purpose, for the acquisition of an investment and so on. It would be good to calculate how much this represents in the health register and what we would do for this money as regards patients, waiting periods, health wages, improved equipment in the health sector, improved clinics, appliances and so on and so on. I think it is easy to see if spending money in the healthcare system would be normal, if the contribution rate were easily 20% lower, so that the waiting period would be significantly shorter, so that we could probably raise wages for everyone in the healthcare system without negotiating anywhere and dealing with each other. This is the result of the findings of this commission of inquiry. I think that the company that built its image in the campaign, and even at the beginning of the mandate with the name of the rule of law, respect for the rule of law, ethics and I do not know of any possible standards, should be particularly supportive of the solutions and proposals and conclusions of this Commission. Because they're standing. Not a single piece of information in this inquiry committee's report is without a basis. All that is written is supported or by a direct statement you have on camera or in the National Assembly Archives or by documentary documentation. If any of this were not true, we would likely have had a different conversation in this room. But because things are holding up, it's using banal reasons to try to discredit the findings and also this report. All those who think that anything is wrong with this report have had the opportunity, as has been said, to propose amendments with which to vote and to correct the conclusions have corrected the conclusions. However, anyone who was a member of the commission could also draw up a separate opinion, his position, his point of view, his findings in this commission of inquiry. None of this happened. And since none of this has happened because none of the SMCs you discussed at this point have tried to do so, then I can see that it was actually an attempt at banalisation that has no basis to afford it. In short, I will support this interim report of the Commission of Inquiry. I hope that the continuation will also take place in accordance with the standards set out and that we may also eventually reach those who may still be over those persons who have run the health system and have carried out these odd business talks in this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u181	We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the applicant, that is, the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mrs Jelka Godec. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you. I might just touch on the findings of the parliamentary investigative commission themselves, because I think we haven't touched that much today except in my presentation at the beginning. Just as we have adopted a decision at the meeting, it is a matter of stating the suspicion of the offences of certain persons and of also referring to the institution's request to investigate certain suspicions of legal persons. If we look at these allegations of suspicion of crime, it's under the Penal Code for damage to public funds, non-economic activity and so on. Now, if we look at the individuals themselves, Mr Darko Zorman, who is listed, was the head of the Katetric Laboratory in UKC Ljubljana and also participated in the public tenders until 2012. He, for example, spoke in his own testimony about things that were contradictory. Let's say at one testimonial and then later when he came in, he changed things, so we don't even know if he lied the first time or the second time, but then it's the NPU thing to search again. But he said when I asked him if they were in violation of the Public Procurement Act, he said, "Yes." Did you realize that? “Yes.” Well, it's very arrogant and, uh, it's nothing like that. At the same time, he accused the multinational Abbott of repacking the stents. This is about the Polish walls that came to Slovenia in 2013 in UKC Ljubljana, and this obviously disturbed him so much that at this meeting of the commission of inquiry he also said that Abbott simply repacked the stents, that he put worse into a better box, and this landed in Ljubljana. We have obtained from the Polish supplier all the certificates and everything, this is also written, so it is also one thing for the NPU to investigate. At the same time, it was very pleased that the Polish supplier essentially stopped selling at UKC Ljubljana because they were stopped by the manufacturer himself. He also said that he went to luxury villas in Tuscany, hosted by suppliers. He was paid for several congresses, trips, travel assignments, which he could not answer, why direct payment by, say, Mark Medicala and Bormia, because he constantly claimed that he was paying UKC Ljubljana. Then, let's say, he was a procurator, so he worked in Banja Luka, and he didn't have a parental license for that. When asked about Titan’s missing stents — simply not matching the table — he also somehow indicated that it would not be strange if they were lost from the warehouse to the catheter’s laboratory. I mean, the relationship that he showed, and then all the documentation that we could still examine in the closed part, shows or provokes certain suspicions that we said at the beginning. Dr. Kanič, head of the Maribor catheter laboratory, has also been involved in public procurement for many years, for example, saying that suppliers wrote or pressured doctors to consume their material and to consume it. And what did he do? He sat down with a doctor and said, “Come on, deliver from this supplier.” He also said that he had placed two stents in another hospital or other doctor, saying that he had been a humanitarian donor or donor. He said if it's such a cost, I'll pay him now. Look, maybe, who says, two vein braces, it's nothing like that, but it's two thousand euros without being registered. Therefore, the question is also raised whether these were really just two stents or more stents because we are not only talking about stents, but also about taxpayers’ money. That's what people paid for, and this doctor simply gave it to me and said, "I'll settle it if I have to." Traveling for family members — yes, he said that he did not go alone, that family members did. Whoever paid him didn't know all of a sudden, but if the suppliers had already paid him, he didn't ask them to. These statements, which were in the public service and then the closed reports also show that they are certain doctors, I am not speaking specifically now, I am talking in general about two doctors that doctors were also acquiring funds, i.e. payments for family members, different travels, and there is also evidence. If I continue with the doctors, Dr Bunc participated in the invitation to tender 2012 and then 2013 in UKC Ljubljana. In 2013, he wants to be expelled from the commission if he is in conflict of interest, because he works for multinationals who produce vascular resistors and because the leadership doesn't agree to it, and he still works on the commission. So it's not even visible from that documentation, but he did or he didn't. At some point, yes, then he can't make up his mind again. But he expressed himself in some way that there might be a conflict of interest. There's a suspicion here that there's still some sort of thing left in this direction. Then, for example, he writes an opinion on a vein support, that he disagrees or that it is not yet confirmed enough and that it is not procured, and then he uses it cheerfully, and he also acquires it further. So some contradictory matters are and there are certain suspicions that we have presented in the report itself. Then the Chief of Procurement, Mr. Mag. Bojan Uran from UKC Ljubljana, he has repeatedly said that public orders have been arranged or said that if you write a public order in such a way that you can get a vein support with one drug, that it is a complete fragmentation and then 2013 have solved it and that the matter is now resolved. Then he admits that he had a supplier who, by strange channels, had been informed before the final decision of the tendering commission that he would not be selected on a public contract. This supplier shows up with Mr Uranus and asks him to clear up these matters. What does Mr. Uranus do? He calls the president of the call committee and basically orders her to arrange it with Dr. Bunce. That is what both of them have said, and Mr Uranus admits, yes, that he wanted these things to be settled in the sense that there will be no later appeal. You will not believe, in this package, the supplier was the cheapest and they told him that he would not be selected, this assembly simply with Dr. Bunca's explanation shut down, so there is no choice in this part. So they don't pick anyone. Then there is the suspicion of the influence of suppliers, the influence of the head of the procurement service on doctors or decision makers in public procurement. Then there are the directors here who argued that they didn't know the prices, that the doctors pressured them to trust the professional services. I don't know, Mr. Vrchunc says he's looked at every contract, every annex and signed every one. But he didn't notice, let's say that things are overpaid here, that the quantities are increasing and so on. If they didn't know the prices among themselves of the Slovenian hospital, I think it was attracted to the hair, because later doctors testified, but they said they knew what the prices were abroad. But the principals didn't even talk to each other. However, the Director shall be objectively responsible, if not subjectively, for errors occurring in the hospital itself in the case of subordinates, at least in the procurement service. The next issue, which is, of course, what we have already mentioned, is the overstatement of public procurement orders past purchase orders. Interestingly, this occurs with the same supplier, Mark Medical and later Bormia. These two suppliers are also somehow linked in terms of the fact that the Director of Bormie Mr Cotic, who has been the Director there since 2011, at this newly established company, was previously Director of Mark Medicala. Of course, there are some other associates who went with him from Mark Medical to Bormio and then the matter continues quite nicely. In 2014, when Mark Medical was no longer selected in the public tender, although he was no longer selected in the public tender, UKC bought more than EUR 300,000 of vein support from him, in 2014, when they already knew that others would be chosen or were contracts in the signatures, UKC Ljubljana still happily bought from Mark Medicala, then somehow took over this leading role in these supply of Bormia veins and another PRO-GEM company. When he told his colleague earlier that we wanted to bring something into the present that they had brought themselves. It is just a matter of several things, and for Mark Medical, Mrs Čoklova said that when she came as director, V.D. Director of UKC Ljubljana, she was reminded of this company, if she was one of the largest suppliers. Indeed, from 2003 to 2016, this company had a 39% share of sales in UKC Ljubljana and in UKC Maribor 19%, with a market share of even over 90% in the Slovenian market for vascular resistance during certain periods. If we move on. It was said that one of the doctors said that all the cardiologists in Slovenia were educated by the pharmacy or industry, that there is no money elsewhere, that there is no money in Slovenian education health. If we look at just the numbers that have already been said, let's say that 6 million over the procurement of the purchased material in UKC Ljubljana were 4 million past the orders and so on. If we were to convert these 6 million, which they gave through a public order, if we said that one PCR cardio congress in Paris costs a person, say, 3,000 euros, if the woman doesn't go along, it's for 15 cardiologists in UKC Ljubljana 45 thousand euros a year, so for one congress, 35 years could go all 15 years to this congress for this money, say. The venous cords were much overpaid, rather than essentially training for doctors. If we were to save money at European prices, we would reduce the costs in this area, and this money could be spent on young cardiologists to go to these congresses, not gentlemen who are not even doctors of science, but who are outside the room, but for young doctors who are eager for knowledge, who will continue to build on this. If I go back to Mark Medical and to the 1909 financial group KB, here are special stories for some time also due to Mladina d. d., in the debates we have shown ownership in the structure of KB 1909, as was Mark Medical. Today it was said that we were heading for only one supplier, but if we went to look at the report, with all the evidence you can see that only Mark Medical was passing through the procurement via public contracts, I think it was a breach of contract value. All other suppliers selected on the same invitation to tender did not reach even the minimum quantities in the contract. Not even a minimum. Mark Medical overrun or not him for over 2 million, but UKC Ljubljana purchased so much. And when we started to draw attention to these issues in the Slovenian Democratic Party, including KB 1909, Mladina and Mark Medicala, I don't know, gentlemen, fellow Members and colleagues, if you remember 2 March 2016, just before the Act establishing the Commission of Inquiry was adopted, we received, by Ferfolja-Ljubič-Bouk's lawyer company, a kind of, I must say, a threatening letter. The lawyer Dino Bauk writes to us, otherwise the Honorary columnist of Youth, that we should be careful what we say, if I sum it up briefly, and that she will hold a meeting of the National Assembly and that she does not want to talk about Youth, about KB, that we are deceiving that we are lying that at the press conference, me and Mr Janša presented things that do not hold up about Mark Medical and so on. So by then, just before we were set up, we had all the Members, all the Members, this letter from the law firm. In fact, these pressures are constantly being exerted. I'm getting more and more inclined to actually go in the right direction. Because, once again, I'm trying to show you things. Mark Medical Slovenia is in the ownership company KB 1909. Its parent company is Mark Medical Italy, which is 100% owned by KB 1909. Mark Medical Slovenia therefore owned Mark Medical in Italy and Vega Finanz in Luxembourg. Vega Finanz in Luxembourg – today we know who is the director, who owns it, is supposed to be the founder of Safti. And this Vega Finanz had a 70% share in Slovenian Mark Medical. Now it's gone, because KB has bought out a full share of this property. What happened in 2007 and 2008? It happened that Vega Finanz was the owner of 70%, Mark Medical Italy owned the rest – and what happens? KB buys 30% of the stake from Vega Finanz for a million and then sells it in a year to its subsidiary Mark Medical in Italy for 3 million, making the difference in the year 2 million 300. Whether the financial situation of Mark Medical Slovenia has soared in a year that 30% of the share was worth a million at the end of 2006 and then 3 million in 2008 is a big question in relation to business reports. It is indeed something that Mark Medical in Slovenia began to sell his blood supply heavily during these years. At that time, the biggest breaches of the Public Procurement Act were also taking place by UKC Ljubljana, which was speeding up the purchase of vascular support from this company. All the profits that Mark Medical Slovenia had with the sale of not only veins, i.e. all medical material, of course profit went to Vega Finanz, something to Luxembourg, something to Italy, to his home society. How much these profits were, it's different, but it was definitely money from this area of the ventricles and, of course, all the other areas. So the taxpayers gave some money to Vega Finanzu Luxembourg, which is sort of a mysterious company set up by Safti, and to Italy to the parent company Mark Medical, which owns KB. And KB also owns Youth and, of course, other areas. So he's kind of rounding up the money. When we asked Mr Peric on the Commission of Inquiry why Vega Finanz is in Luxembourg or who owns the director, he said that it was a business secret that he would not talk about. But when we asked him where Vega Finanz's money was going, I think where he was going with the money, he said it was a business secret. I asked him if he at least pointed out where and said mainly in the recapitalisation of other companies and I wasn't quite satisfied with that answer and I asked where, he said in Italy. So, one share, which Mark Medical Slovenia also earned by selling vascular support, went, of course, to Vega Finanz and there probably also money to recapitalise companies in Italy. There is also a question, perhaps in Slovenia, because the share was also collected by KB 1909, which also had companies after Slovenia and, of course, in Italy. Of course, there's only suspicion, it's indicated. For this, I hope that the investigative authorities in Slovenia, which have more knowledge, have more resources to investigate, dismiss or confirm these suspicions. Of course, this is not on us now, we have tried with all the documentation, with the hearings just objectively to show or contradict certain things. Different questions were asked, and today, when I listened, if we were not working in the right direction, see, these are all points at the beginning of the commission of inquiry, where it says exactly what to investigate. And that's what we've been investigating. If I go back to KB, KB also bought ownership in Mark Medical in Slovenia in the same years as it purchased ownership in Mladina, recapitalised Youth, and later somehow with the help of companies that display negative conditions in the balance sheets, so there is still this suspicion that the money that was also on the side of the veins also went to Mladina, I think that is why such resistance on the other hand. It's just that things are shown in the report itself. I must have forgotten something else. For example, at KB 1909 it is also interesting that this company has rented more credits, including credit with Adria Bank in Vienna, and Mark Medical Slovenia pledged for this loan. So, for the loan he rents at Adria Bank in Vienna, Mark Medical Slovenia makes a guarantee. But what is interesting about this is that Mr Child was Director of Adria Bank in Vienna and at the same time a member of the KB 1909 Supervisory Board. So he sits first in the KB 1909 supervisory board, where they write down a request – I don't know how it goes – on Adria Bank for Credit, where they place Mark Medical, and then he goes to Vienna, sits on the second chair of Director Adria Bank and confirms this loan, which we then found on the investigative committee, that it was a bad loan or that the loan was not repaid. Mark Medical was paid and then sold to another group. These are things that, of course, kind of strengthen even more in these, if you want, suspicions of different flows of money and all the other things that I said. To conclude, to satisfy all those unfaithful Tomaža, we will, of course, also hear the ministers below. I think it's already announced which ministers will be, of course, with full powers. Madam Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc is 2014 until 2016, when things came the day that it is known, I think she will give her opinion on this. Otherwise, we have heard many others, including Mr Miklavčič, now in recent times. He was also a minister who said harshly that in his day there was no problem, as he said it was, very striking. Mr. Zemlarič, who has also been mentioned many times, was an honorary member of the UKC Ljubljana collective, very vital to the opening of the emergency last week, but was very deaf to our investigative committee and did not even hear the names I was setting up. Then, of course, there were others who were not in the meantime because they did not yet coincide with the interim report. I, of course, expect the support of Members. There was no separate opinion, as my colleague Tanko said. No one has spoken against it. But today, of course, I also expected a SMC Member to explain a little bit more why and what was bothering her and what she thought was wrong with the report, given that she had raised herself in the very session for, and today Mr Zorman and Mr Jani are speaking differently. There were no amendments, so I expect this to be confirmed and we can continue our work and look for or question ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u183	Since there is no more time or interest to discuss the additional interim reports of the Commission in closed session, I conclude the debate. The assembly will take a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry and the proposals for conclusions within half an hour in the framework of the vote. I hereby end this agenda item and also the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u184	We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in the following order: 30., 31., 32., 33., 34., 36., 37. and 40. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Border Control, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 31st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on working relations, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the Labour Relations Act is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 32nd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gymnasiums in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 34th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Slovenian Matrimonials in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 36th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Elections in the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 37th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 153 and the second paragraph of Article 154 of the Criminal Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: “The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the fourth paragraph of Article 153 and the second paragraph of Article 154 of the Criminal Procedure Act shall be adopted.” Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have no doubt about the well-intention of the proposaler, who proposed an authentic explanation on the basis of an actual case known as Jankovic and a pharmacist. This is the authentic interpretation of Article 153, paragraph 4, and Article 154, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Procedure Act. However, if we supported this authentic explanation in the Slovenian Democratic Party today, we would somehow give the wings to all those who have double criteria in justice. In fact, there are 19 cases, at least 19 when the decision was entirely different from that of the judge in the case in question. In this way, she avoided herself and washed her hands in an appropriate manner and, above all, protected the untouchable in this country. And of course, an authentic explanation can always be an appropriate and appropriate excuse for us to continue to divide citizens and citizens into first-class and second-class citizens. When it comes to us, we will act in a way that does not suit us, and we will do otherwise, and of course we can always say that the legislation is unclear. The legislation was clear in this part, and the judge acted differently than usual and led by legal practice, so in this case we cannot support the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we will not, of course, object to the authentic interpretation. Or maybe she'll just take a step further in the future. But as it is said, Jankovic and the pharmacist were covered, and of course we can count that the judge in question will soon find herself on the promotion list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u186	We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly, so we are moving on to a vote on the text of the authentic interpretation. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 40th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Interim Report on Parliamentary Investigations in the field of the identification of abuses in the Slovenian health system in the field of sales and purchase of venous braces. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are recorded in the Interim Report on pages 240 to 330, in an additional interim report on pages 37 to 49 and in another supplementary interim report on pages 17 to 26. Before proceeding to a decision, I would like to point out that, if possible, you do not provide information from the supplementary interim report and from another supplementary interim report containing classified information or other information protected under the law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u187	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will confirm these conclusions or general conclusions. We were also the initiators of the establishment of an investigative commission in the National Assembly to identify irregularities in the purchase and sale of vein support. In a year and a half, the Commission of Inquiry has reached key findings in almost all four points of the parliamentary inquiry: to identify the possible responsibility of public function holders to take part in the preparation and execution of procurement procedures in the field of vascular resistors and related corruption and other suspensions of the duty of management and of all those who are current and former holders of public functions in institutions, i.e. at secondary and tertiary levels in the health system, and are linked to the sale, acquisition of vascular cords. At the same time, the parliamentary commission of inquiry also followed points 3 and 4 – the link between the supplier Mark Medical and KB 1909 and the newspaper company Mladina or d. d. We support the conclusions or joint conclusions of the Group of Members, as they are somehow the first steps towards finally setting themselves in the Slovenian healthcare system to demonstrate or investigate the suspected crimes of certain individuals, both physical and legal, so that they do not generalise and show with their fingers that all doctors are corrupt, that all doctors are involved in any irregularity. Of course, the same applies to suppliers on the other hand. We also believe that the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office have not done enough and that is why this Commission of Inquiry has not done enough. Because if all the authorities in Slovenia were to work actively in this area, then this commission of inquiry would not be necessary either. All these conclusions lead to the investigation of all these suspicions of crime and to the subsequent or some other basis for further work in order to identify the political responsibility that some of this National Assembly, of course, want. However, I believe or believe in the Group of Members that this Commission of Inquiry is doing well and will continue to act so constructively and with a common goal, to identify these health irregularities, with the active participation of all the members, to whom I in fact thank them at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u188	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Desus Group, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much, President. In the Desus Group we will support this interim report. The Commission of Inquiry has done one important job and has come to conclusions that we have somehow expected, which we were afraid of. The fact is, of course, that there are many irregularities in the procurement of health care supplies, and this case of the acquisition of vein support is probably not isolated, but it is very instructive, conductive. I must say that, as a member, at least in a certain part, I can say that the work of this commission was actually impartial, that it was invited in accordance with either the proposals or the members of the commission and, of course, the presidents of all those who are, in some way, connected with the acquisition of the veins. And, of course, I believe that some of these results of the work of this Commission cannot be liked, which is a fact, which of course does not change the conclusions reached by the Commission. I hope, of course, that this, even when the final report is due to change in the practice of purchasing, especially such acquisitions, will result. And this does not diminish the importance of this work, to talk practically about one of the thousands of articles. If we were to deal with thousands of them, of course, the result that some want would have been achieved, the Commission would never have done its work. Of course, this has been done, determined, not yet completed. As we say, this interim report will receive our support, in the hope that the Commission will continue its work in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u190	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. The task of the Parliamentary Investigative Commission is to explore the facts to find out what was going on. Or whether certain cases were illegal, he must ultimately assess and overestimate the judiciary. The National Investigation Office, the Special Prosecutor's Office has not yet carried out its work in this area, so I believe that the results of this commission will benefit these authorities and that in the end we will also actually come to some judgmental judgements that these practices will cease once and for all. The work carried out by the Commission and the facts it has found cannot, of course, be disputed, but the report itself contains certain valuable judgments that we cannot agree to. The value judgment, where you refer on the basis of the facts found in general and assess the general situation in Slovenian health care, of course this is not correct. Secondly, further in the conclusions to call on some independent authorities to intervene with this commission of inquiry, you know for yourselves that the Commission of Inquiry does not have these powers. As has already been pointed out in the debate today, all the political actors who should be heard in this area have not been heard in the last ten years in Slovenia. So, of course, the Commission cannot in any way make the final assessment. Because of these concerns raised against and the arguments for which we will vote in our Group of Members on our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u192	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats mag. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u193	Thank you very much, President, for your word. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for an interim report. I must say that we have been constructively involved in the commission of inquiry, we have been actively involved in the hearings themselves, a lot of work has been done. This is a matter of thanks to the President of the Commission, as well as to the members who have participated and who have participated, a colleague on my left. I must say that the Commission has drawn up a report, which is an intermediate sign to the institutions to start their work. Because we need to be aware that certain institutions have already completed the procedures, put the material in drawers and actually the matter would be closed for them. However, the findings of this interim report indicate the suspicions of criminal services and these crimes must be verified and examined accordingly. Certainly corruption in our system is not allowed, and these practices must finally be put to an end. If we make one structure, I must say that this system, which is rooted in our system, has rotted in its very foundations, so that we will have to take many more steps to bring this rotten system into a healthy way of life. Infringements to the public procurement we have been informed are unacceptable, both by the responsible persons, by the management and by the competent ministries, who may not even have been aware of this, but will be able to take a closer look at this report. We therefore expect that appropriate legislation will be prepared to prevent all possible maneuvers forward and finally to resolve this, I will say, a Gordy knot that has emerged and which has already become so rooted that to some it is already perfectly self-evident. We will support the interim report in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u194	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of the Christian Democrats, Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! New Slovenia, of course, supports this interim report on the parliamentary investigation carried out in the field of detection of abuse in the Slovenian health system. The health system of care for our health, care for our lives and lives is sacred, and if, for what area, then this particular segment, the health system is considered to be corruption and subsidizing state money crimes against humanity because they have devastating effects on people. I am informing this committee, where our colleague Iva Dimic is very cooperative, and from the front of this parliamentary inquiry committee, of what is going on, of course, I want to see that this is the wish of most of us all to actually get the names and surnames of these criminals against humanity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u196	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist group Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! We will not support the report in Levika, but there are three reasons. The first is that, following this report, vascular resistance has been prevented somewhere since 2006. The worst was again, according to the report, until 2013. Even most of the time during this period, the government was led by a party who is now leading this committee. At the same time, I must point out that every time the government has a majority in the worlds in all hospitals and exercises control over them. So, where were you then? The second reason is that at the time of the appointment of this commission, we have warned that this is likely to be politically abused. This is also happening now, if you looked at the interview by Janez Janša and Jožet Možina on Sunday, you could track more dictions, quotations that referred directly to this report if I circled at two. Janez Janša said: “The lobby made 200 million euros to pay the vascular support.” This amount is overblown, the commission has not proved it. Second quote: “A large part of this money went to maintain a media scene that defends the existing state. The biggest benefit of this corruption was the company which publishes the weekly Mladina." This is also an unproven insinuation, and I cannot help but overlook the fact that this has been said by the president of a party that finances its own media through the Media Act through companies associated with the Orban government. First, clean up at your doorstep. And the third reason is that the conclusions of this report can I conclude or let you talk a little bit more? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u198	Peace, please, in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u199	The third reason is that the conclusions of this report are benign and do not approach an arrangement that would actually correct this situation. In this mandate, we have repeatedly proposed the establishment of a public company for the purchase of medical devices in Levika, and this is also suggested by the KPC, and again I warn the coalition that you have a similar case in the coalition contract. For these three reasons, we will vote against the confirmation of the interim report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u200	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament? No, no, no. In your own name, I see there are more interests, so please apply. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Branko Zorman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. This time in my own name, I'll be a little more grave. I also believe that the SDS Group of Members makes use of this Commission of Inquiry for political purposes, which clearly shows in the practice and statements and also in the discussions of their members both on the Health Committee and here in plenary sessions. However, I would just like to point out one thing, because earlier in explaining the voice of one of the parliamentary groups, it may have been understood for someone who is looking at us now that if you are against this report, then the commission will stop working. Far from it. Nevertheless, even if everyone were against this interim report, the Commission would continue its work and, of course, should present the final report. It is said that the work of this commission of inquiry is not hindered or denied by certain findings that have been found. All of these practices, which have been discovered and recorded in the report, are not disputed and no one denies it. However, I do not agree to the value judgment or personally to the value judgements resulting from it and to the conclusions which have absolutely no legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u202	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Before I say that I will vote in favour of this part of the report, I would like to ask colleagues Jelka Godec, as well as you fellow Members and Members who have participated in this committee, who have acted creatively, who have asked the real questions that you have discovered, how part of the Slovenian deep country works, who are in fact also through the first conclusions that we can finally learn from, where the former Minister and all the other yachts in our Gulf, where the wealthy Slovenians, some who have companies in their mailboxes, from where the money that was transferred from right after their independence to abroad and through companies, has been working creatively throughout the Slovenian health system. The work done by colleague Jelka Godec is a work that should have been done long before us by investigative authorities in the Republic of Slovenia, especially the special part of the prosecutor's office that deals with minor matters today. That's basically, I can say, one common observation. The fact that the deep state is operating and that no major crime, particularly in the economic field in Slovenia, has been detected by the police and the state prosecutor's office. This is what is worth considering, and also, dear colleagues, I also appeal to you before we come to the bottom of the truth, we will be freed and freed, and then Slovenia will also become a normal democratic republic. That is why, as I have said, I will vote in favour, and I want this Commission to continue its work until the final report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u204	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u205	Today we will vote on two things: one is a report, of course, and the other is conclusions. The report, written on more than 300 pages, contains mainly information on what the Commission has done. In fact, the last three pages of the report are controversial. They find the same thing all the time – possible suspicion. If anyone can explain to me, what does that mean? This means nothing more than that the Commission itself doubts its own findings of the suspicions it has had because it talks about possible suspicions. Secondly, of course, the conclusions are illegal. I'm not afraid of any threats I've faced from that side today, if you're on some public list, those who will vote against it because I'm defending legality. In fact, the President of the National Assembly will be in an uncomfortably position because he will not be able to carry out legally illegal decisions and non-executive decisions. He will even send to an unknown consignor a request that does not exist because you misnamed an organ that is not in the country. A set of things that simply say that work has not been done in that part as it should be in order to be clear conclusions. Nothing missing. The Commission can carry out its work to the end and, of course, it is also very clear to us about two things, political responsibility and how legislation needs to be amended. And this is where the story ends. However, the rest is, of course, simply a push-up and accumulating political points by unnecessary means. To this day, I have not heard one political name and therefore it is very difficult to vote for something that is illegal and illegal. Finally, let me just say this: it's not really what some people say today, that no commission has discovered anything, is, the Freebies Commission has done its job very well, but unfortunately we know who did it. Sorry, back to that side.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u206	Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will begin with this: the policy area is not an area of complacency; we are, after all, well paid for it. I understand that some political option has a problem with some gentleman who was mentioned most of the time today, after all, he was my classmate in high school, and if someone asked me if Matjaž was doing this, he would say no, he wasn't like that, but people in the good quarter of the century or in 30 years we are turning. Now, in fact, you love criticizing me here, the way I am, the way I am, no one can criticize me as much as I can criticize myself. And I do. No one can criticize the Left as the Left criticizes herself. And that seems to me to be the essence of mature politics. Every time I hear corruption in health care, you know what the first visual frame I have in my head is. Some swinger, Mrs. Mazey Kukovic, Mr. Zidar, who are racing together. I believe Jelka was working hard to do a good job, but she only did half of it. During this time of discussion, John John Janša was in power for half the time. I'm a spatial sociologist, and you know -- time, space -- I look at this a little bit more. And then that would be the report I would support. But I agree with what Bojan said. And I'd like to sign it somehow. But there was also a former minister here who didn't handle the matter. We have problems with ex-ministers who are very smart. And I'm actually sorry that I can't support this report because you really worked on this committee, but again, like this for the fourth century in Slovenian politics, I'm going to say, you've abused it in part. And I hope that the next commission of which I am a member will not partially abuse another report. And for that reason, I will vote against it. Of course, I want health care to work out.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u208	Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Jelka Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u209	From my previous explanations of vote, I understood the following: if we were to lynch John Janša in this report, and if we were to lynch the ministers who were in the government at the time when Janez Janša’s government was. In this case, it would also confirm the report on half-page or with only one word. Indicted Janez Janša, accused of Kukovich and so on, would then be confirmed. In all these evidences, which are, and in all the collected cases concerning both left and right, green, purple doctors, buyers, directors, you have a problem because there are reportedly political judgments or personal judgments that Mr. Zorman has not seen for this explanation of the vote and I also have them on the initiative of your colleague, who is missing all the time and obviously will not be on the vote and was on the investigative committee, and on all the other comments, we have also put them out. You've probably read the report from the I don't know what year, but it doesn't matter. There are things in there that seem to bother you very much, and today I also learned that we are essentially a political commission of inquiry based on the ideology of SDS, and that we are only dealing with this and are hunting witches. It is not my fault if between 2003 and 2016 they were in leading positions, those we are investigating, but people who were left and right. In our investigation there was no difference, we called everyone on the initiative of me and my colleagues. And I have to say, there's been a lot of work done, it's not to deny, but that's not enough, as my colleague said, it needs to be done well. And if you're defending legality, then you've noticed a lot of illegality inside that we're describing and we want the investigating authorities to investigate. I'm surprised, there were no amendments, there were no comments, and today, in fact, there was no such establishment. Nevertheless, I expect this report to be adopted and proof that you are not protecting corruption, but indeed the legality of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u210	Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, I'm afraid I have to use it procedurally. I'm not going to abuse him. But it will be procedural for Mrs Jelka Godec to apologize to me. Look, as a professor I teach anything, I tell the students: “One of the biggest methodological errors is that you are thinking of yourself.” What does that mean? If someone's close to the concept of lynching, it's light years away from Franz Duck. But who were they trying to lynch about some of the findings of the investigator, but my certain Mr. Moze can tell you. And I'm asking Mrs. Jelka to apologize to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u212	First of all, of course, I understand this procedurally, but I'm not going to order you to apologize, because I never did. It's just a matter of every individual. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] That's what I know, by taking your word for procedurally that you did it. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr Branko Zorman has the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. I must protect my colleague, who is a member of this commission of inquiry, because in what Mrs Godec said, it was understood that she is now withdrawing and hiding something before we vote on it. She has some personal responsibilities and it would be fair for you to first see why she's not here and then re-judge. Even if I abused it, it's not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u214	Is there no more explanation? So we're voting on the key findings of the Investigative Commission. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u215	Thank you very much, President. I thought it would take longer. I'm sorry. I cannot support this interim report because it is one, many times, that the attempt of political conversion that that party, which it is studying, has activated such practices, is now at fault to someone else. The Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry is primarily investigating political responsibility. So far, only one minister has undergone a parliamentary inquiry during the period of the SDS ministry. We did not get an explanation and an answer as to why neither Minister Bručan nor Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic were among the interrogators. On the other hand, all of this material, all of these findings that you have come to, there are many of them, and I believe that there are quite a few of them that are also directly useful and should be given further to the competent authorities, but in fact, on the show Verified, on the show Tednik, I think, from 2013 onwards, a little bit of the headshot, I am talking about these names and these practices and about such findings. In fact, you haven't found anything terrible new. And yes, we're the first to fight corruption and especially corruption in health care, but, excuse me, not in this way. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u216	A little peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u217	We can't do this. [[…]] And we're in here, this time with the Left Party, we're the only ones who've come into politics unobstructed. [[…]] [[Laughing in the hall]] And it is in our first interest that this [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u218	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u219	discovers, but, unfortunately, not this way. But luckily we're only in the middle of an intermediate journey and you have the opportunity to do a balanced and honest work to the end [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u220	Is there any other explanation? Yeah, there's more, I saw. Procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After these deviant attempts to explain the voice and to get out of this senseless mess, I would expect them to intervene. If, during the period of Mr Bručan and Mr Mazej Kukoviceva and the Government of Janez Janša, anything was wrong in the field of health, they could also make an investigative commission. Easy, enough of you, you don't need anyone. And in view of this, Mr President, that your Members are operating on that term of “potential suspicion”, I would expect them to be warned, because the agenda item is a vote on conclusions, an explanation of vote, not a controversy, not anything else, or a debate on this item on the agenda. That's what we did. And given the fact that the two parties who have come are unobstructed, you say, in this political space, they will go out extremely dirty, major protectors of crime and corruption, which is taking place in all sorts of areas. If, with such evidentiary evidence and arguments written in this report by the Commission of Inquiry, supported by the statements of those who have been investigated, they do not stand and are not sufficient for the SMC to support this, then I believe that this is a disaster on the pier. It is clear that money will continue to be taken from health care, it will be used for various yachts, expensive properties, for floscules that you continue to share in this area, but nothing will be done concretely. With regard to the continuation of the work of the commission of inquiry, however, your member of the commission of inquiry may, if she is unable to do so, also propose an extension of the investigation to Mazej Kukovičeva, Mr Bručan and so on. This is an intermediate step, before we get to the end, we can do all of this. So I propose, Mr President, that, if I may speculate, there may be a number of new Members in any new party, as your Jani Möderndorfer may already be, I suspect that he may cross again.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u222	What does this have to do with procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u223	There is. Please warn them to propose enlargements, to propose amendments, if anything is wrong, to propose separate opinions rather than to listen to this blasphemy for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-22-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u224	Yeah, including the last one. The fact is, I must admit that you have also used a very procedural form to offend everyone else, including me, and I don't really know who was able to identify everything in the whole matter. Neither certain explanations to the vote nor certain procedural ones were as they should in fact be according to the rules of procedure, so I ask that we stop and if anyone else wants to make a procedural decision to stick to what he proposes first. If he can't do it, it's pure abuse. I think we are done with the explanations and can vote on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the key findings of the Commission of Inquiry have been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals of the Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 22. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue on Monday, 27. 11. 2017, at 9 a.m.
