ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Alenka Bratušek, Jelka Godec from 14:00, Milan Brglez from 19:00 to 20:00, Matthew Tonin from 20:00, Jernej Vrtovec from 20:00, Zvonko May from 20:00, Luka Mesec from 19:00 to 21:00, Franz Trček to 12:00, Janez Janša, Jože Tanko from 16:00, Franc Laj and Bojan Krajnc to 16:00. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, Dr Mark Novak, the President of the Council of Justice, to the 21st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move to the agenda for the meeting, I must inform you that Mrs Marija Pozsonec, Member of the National Assembly, died in mandates from 1992 to 2008. I ask you to honor her memory with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] We are moving on to the agenda of the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 13 April 2017 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. First, we are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the withdrawal proposal. The Group of Ambassadors of the United Left proposes to remove item 2 from the agenda of the 29th session, namely the Proposal for a Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway by means of an urgent procedure. You received a proposal of 19. 4. 2017 and published on the e-club. The text is by the representative of the Ambassador of the United Left Group, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you, President. This withdrawal is proposed for two basic reasons. The first is that this law is passed too quickly after this urgent procedure, which has indeed gone into an extreme shortening of deadlines. The first thing is that virtually everything has been going on very untransparent and above all undemocratic since the beginning. The public hearing lasted a few days. The government passed the law in 12 hours. Then came the National Assembly, where the urgent procedure was adopted, the meeting of the mother’s working body was convened before the holidays, the first day after the holidays, and we are now essentially deciding on this law on the first day of the meeting. That's one of the reasons. In short, it is too hasty to adopt this law. The second is that, in fact, it does not even have all the required commercially prescribed ingredients. The first thing is that we are talking about a law dealing with a billion-dollar investment, but it does not contain an analysis of the impact on public finances. There are practically three elements missing. The first is that there is no compensation for the availability to be paid to 2TKK from the State budget. So we don't know how much budget money will go towards financing this project. The second thing is that there is no assessment of all other revenue of the 2DKK on public charges, for example revenue from the tunnel has not been estimated at all, and the estimates of how much a transfer fee would amount to are very variable, between 10 and 18 million. However, we must also be aware that it depends exactly on these new fees or charges, as far as the budget will go. The third thing is that the law sets out 5 types of subsidies that go to 2TKK, and no one knows at this point what other course this 2TKK is actually going to build. There is no investment laboratory, those Members of the KNJF have seen some old laboratories that are said to be out-of-date. On Tuesday, we also heard in Odessa that the construction of a double - line line is also being considered. So a whole bunch of things are still in the air and definitely the law, even a project that doesn't have a closed financial structure, we can't take it that way. The government doesn't even have a plan B, for example, if Hungary demanded something that Slovenia can't agree to. I think that by June 14 – that is to say, by that date, which is the pretext for this law to be adopted, i.e. the European Union's call for proposals – we could have made all these things, and in this way we are adopting a law that is practically a bridging currency for an investment and which is very comparable to what the guarantee law for TES 6 was. We therefore propose that this item withdraw from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u3	Does the representative of the Government want a word as a motion? Mr Jure Leben, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u4	Your Honor! The government opposes the proposal of the United Left to withdraw the law from the agenda. The proposal from the United Left is totally contrary to the Government's desire to adopt legislation today in an urgent manner. Let me explain. The urgent procedure does not mean that we decided on this project within eight days and wrote the law. We've been talking about the project for years. I'm also hearing reports of an emergency. That's not true. We propose an urgent procedure because we want to obtain European funding for the second track project. We cannot effectively apply to the tender unless we provide investment to 2TKK before July. It is necessary to draw on European grants because we do not want taxpayers to be again affected. The law further defines how to finance the second track. Our financial structure is clear. It foresees European funds, the European Investment Bank and foreign investors under the condition that infrastructure and Luka Koper remain Slovenia. The second track is the project of Slovenia and the entire region. At this point, we are all writing the infrastructure history of the entire region. The second track opens new dimensions for Slovenia. We're becoming a logistics platform for the whole of Central Europe. The second track is just our beginning. Slovenia must take advantage of its geostrategic position and continue to modernise the railway and other infrastructure. Today, we can say that the second track is no longer a dream or a promise, but it is a reality. Of course, some want us to remove this item from the agenda, some have for decades withdrawn the view of this project, some still oppose this project today. This is the case with all infrastructure projects of this majority. We are ready to do this, so we are having an honest dialogue with all stakeholders. We've achieved a lot in just two years. The second track is run by our government, we have a vision, the result of this vision is this law. The law is aimed at transparency and clarity. We define financing for construction, ownership. We explain all the inaccuracies. Let me do it again. No State claimed ownership of the second track or of Luca Koper. In the end, let me trust you with the most recent information. Yesterday I was on the European Commission's Road Infrastructure Accounting Committee. The European Commission has confirmed our proposal for a toll charge for heavy goods vehicles and the revenue will be used deliberately for the second track project. I was hoping that the Slovenians would unite around the second track, so I suggest that the item remain on the agenda of this meeting. We need this marriage, for we have done much, perhaps not as quickly as we all wanted, but the results are here. We're just ahead of construction today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u5	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The text is by the representative of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members, Secretary of State! That's a great read speech. I'd say next. The position of the New Slovenia Group is that we must first know what we are going to build, and then we can adopt a law that will lay down the conditions for financing this project. You yourself spoke on TV shows about the possible completion of the current government project, but at the same time in the same breath you say that all the other alternative options offered at the given time on the table cannot be discussed, it is not worth discussing, because putting into space would take five, six, maybe even seven years. I think that when it comes to a billion-dollar investment, this house and the state are obliged to talk about which variant is the most rational and best. And once we agree on these things, we can also start talking about the basis for closing down the financial structure of the entire project. Before that, the heart - to - heart story TES 6 repeats whether you agree or not. So, to be very clear, we don't object to another track, but we say we need to know what we're going to build first, then we can tell how we're going to finance it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u7	On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. We were already at the college, when the emergency procedure was confirmed, alerted to all these dilemmas related to the construction of the second track or, better to say, to the improvement of the railway link between Luka Koper and the central part of Slovenia. There are at least three variants of improvements in this corridor, prices fluctuate by more than 50%, says between 700 million and a billion 400 million, says enormous differences. And none of what the Government has proposed is actually substantiated and not cemented in this law. It is only clear that it is not a clear technical solution, that the project is incomplete and that when it is in such a special way, with an unclosed financial structure, because it is not possible to evaluate it, they leave channels for the withdrawal of money from this project on all possible items, from the design of additional parts, several parts, over parts and so on, in short, wherever possible, the computer will be computerised. This raises the question of how many times the investment programme will be revised. Five times, six times, seven times like TES, or twice as many? It is totally irrational to prepare a special company dealing with this investment for 2% of the corridor that will be built on the Slovenian network with this second track. This special company without a state guarantee can't reach foreign money, it can't reach bank money. This means that the Government, the State, the National Assembly will have to adopt the guarantee law in one way or another and take over all the burdens of this project. Even if we don't know why things are getting so annoying. From this price we're talking about now, a billion 400, the price is going to go up, I don't know, twice at the end, if not more. As with TES, there is no difference. And this law, if the matter were to stop and the project was to choose the optimal, the cheapest option to fulfill, I would say, the capacity, as you speak, then it would make sense to support such a project. But in this case, by adopting this law, we will create difficult remedial consequences that will be difficult to bear, both for those who, through the guarantee law, will have to cover the investment as well as for those who will use this line. There is also no rational reason that for half of this corridor, which you will be building under special law, we will have one controller and for another to drive on the same route as the other operator, once the Slovenian Railway, twice the 2TKK. Norristim, Mr Secretary of State, doesn't look like the end. You have not answered any questions and this motion for withdrawal [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u9	On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Dr. Bojan Dobovšek shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you. All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we certainly support the proposal of the United Left. The law is not appropriate and it is appropriate to withdraw. At least two basic reasons. Let's do it first. The procedure is not transparent, the procedure provides for corruption risks. This was pointed out by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Court of Auditors, not even part of the profession. And the second time. The very way of implementation, first of all the private-public partnership, which on the other hand means very strong corruption, on the other hand, the public-public partnership proposal, which we know nothing about. And what is most controversial is defending the national interest of Slovenia. We have foreign influences, we do not know what foreign demands for a counterservice, but it is certainly the interest of Slovenia to build a second track, that we own this second track, we manage it for the good of people, not for the good of private interests. I therefore support the proposal to withdraw the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u11	Does the representative of the United Left Group also want to speak to you to further explain your proposal? I'm giving Luke the moon a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. I myself have told you, Mr President, of all the reasons why we are against the urgency of this law and would not repeat them. I just want to do this again. The key argument on which the Government is building is that we need the law if we are to apply for the July European call for funds to build a second track. This is not true because the government has already applied for the same programme in Europe with the same project in February, and this did not require law. That's why we just need to fix the project. There is no condition in law here that we can apply for a European invitation to tender. And we also, in principle, oppose the fact that we will now write laws for some specific European invitation to tender. Among other things, there was a suggestion in the college, a little in jest, but on the spot, that a preliminary provision should then be introduced into the law, if we do not get a European call for the law to cease to apply, if we are already in the process of doing so. What I'd like is next. We have proposed a compromise proposal, and this is to be considered on a regular basis, so that all inconsistencies in the law may be supplemented by the possibility that the opposition has the opportunity to point to the critical points of this law, so that we can prepare amendments through a substantive debate, not to adopt a law today that will most likely allow the next TEM 6. The government says that there will be difficult remedial consequences for the country if we do not adopt this law, we are afraid that it will be just the opposite, that the country will have difficult remedial consequences if we adopt this law. So we don't build another track, we build another TES. That is why I, too, will personally and will fully support this requirement of our Group of Members to withdraw from the agenda. If there is any hurry in the Government, there is sufficient room for manoeuvre within the regular procedure. After all, you can convene an extraordinary meeting at any time and the adoption of the law is fast, but we cannot accept projects worth one billion euros as you have now done. There was a public debate for five days, two days Saturday and Sunday. In the Government, you have passed the law in an hour and a half together with 80 other matters that the Government has dealt with in that hour and a half, and now we will go through Parliament through an emergency procedure where no critical assessment of such a difficult and important project will be possible. These are the main reasons why we want this item removed from the agenda. And once again, I would like to emphasize. What you say is absolutely necessary to apply for a European invitation to tender is simply not true. You proved for yourself February that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u13	This concludes the debate on the withdrawal proposal and brings us to a decision. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw item 2 from the agenda. We're voting. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm breaking up. Does it work or not? The light must shine. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, then it's okay. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. We are still moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. Following an agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly on 18 April 2017, I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 29th meeting be extended by 2nd item, namely the proposal for a law on the conditions of appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia by emergency procedure. You received an extension proposal on Tuesday 18. 4. 2017. He wants to speak to the government's representative as a billmaker? The word has magic. Aleš Cantarutti, State Secretary, Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! For a while. So, you know the story, you know what this is about. We do not want to write this law for one society, but, of course, the conditions within are very clear and talk about systemic societies and we know that this is one society at the moment. What do we want with this marriage? We don't want to interfere with society, not even those with private property, or those with private property, God forbid. In this case, however, it is very clear to protect the interests of a large system society, of course with the desire to prevent the exhaustion of this society, which in this case is the daughter of a mother who is in a difficult situation. So, we will protect society from possible exhaustion, from potential harmful jobs, in order to protect jobs – we know how many – in order to protect Slovenian suppliers of various industries, some of which depend on this company as well. That's what the law is about in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u15	Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, Mr Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Looks like the special law season's here. This one I think is already third in the last few months of this year. For every little thing, for every detail, for every problem that arises in the country and is detected by the government comes with a special law. I must say that we will not support this proposal for enlargement because, in this case, it is purely the government's pianist move, it is an intervention in corporate governance, which has no constitutional basis, and this area is not regulated in the system law, it is said in the Economic Society Act, but it comes with a very specific law. I think the Secretary of State, when he explained it, said himself in the end that it was only a matter of solving this exclusive case. And you could call it lex mercator. The installation of a special Commissioner of State, an expert or anyone in a private economic society is not possible in accordance with the corporate European order. If so, the government should cut down and set up its tenant, then it has three outstanding copies because it is also government because it is state property in one way or another. This is the New Ljubljana Bank, and you have not done so, it is a DUTB or a bad bank, and you have not done so and it is a Slovenian state holding company, and you have not done so. There, by investing a lot of state money in recapitalisation and cheap sales, the government doesn't go down, it says it's not in its jurisdiction. You don't fit in there where there's tens of millions of sales of state property. And it was, I don't know, you have Palomo's case, you have Adria Airways and a few other cases. You, because this is a pianist move, you have stepped into Cimos in some special, specific way and fought for jobs in Croatia, now that it shows this, you will get involved or you want to get involved in the Mercator-Agrokor business. Incomprehensible, inappropriate, non-systematic. And I'm just asking, in fact, does the Government have any vision, any concept, any logistics, any logic that comes into the National Assembly only with such specialties laws that regulate minor details in specific areas. All we missed in this term was lex Medno. Thank you very much. We will be against the expansion of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u17	I conclude by presenting my views on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes against and 20 votes against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. In accordance with the meeting’s timing, the assembly will consider this item on Tuesday, 25. 4. 2017. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as it has received by reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour and 24 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it that the agenda for the 29th meeting of the National Assembly is set. [[advertising from the hall]] Procedural? Procedurally, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you, President, again. I'll try to appeal to common sense again. Therefore, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65, I propose that the item on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway be moved to Wednesday, 26 April 2017. I'm not going to explain long and wide again why, but I'm stressing those key things that are problematic. The first is that this law does not foresee all the public financial consequences, that is, how much of the integrated budget will go to 2TKK for the construction of the project, how much other taxes will actually bring to the project, Minister Gasperšič estimates somewhere between 20 and 25 million, that is the 25 % range, that is, a very loose estimate of these revenues, and anything else accompanying this law. The other thing is that if we deal with this law today in these very short periods of time, it will be very difficult to prepare or prepare appropriate amendments in the parliamentary groups. Let me point out that the Committee's report came into the system only this morning after seven o'clock, and these are, I think, conditions of work that are not relevant to the law governing the project weigh a good billion euros. However, it is also strange how this clock is set, and here I have to quote what you, the President, said yesterday at the college: “I must set a timetable for myself and set it in the light of all the interests that are publicly expressed, and those interests that are not publicly expressed, as well as the presence of Members in the National Assembly itself.” April 26, the following Wednesday, is a normal working day, the presence of Members must be, but I must also point out that it is a purely ordinary law that is adopted with a simple majority, without any specific requirements, so that there is no reason to, I emphasise, hurry with this. And at least give us until Wednesday to prepare the appropriate responses, to examine also what the amendments to the law that happened with the adoption of the amendments to the committee on Tuesday were, and to try to prepare at least some of this law in such a way that it is approximately acceptable. Since at this point it represents, in the first place, the risk of corruption, the risk of this project actually being undermined and, on the other hand, we can at least understand this law as a partial lever for the government's equity, so that these 200 million, which is invested in the 2TKK, will be used to start the preparatory works. This will be a good trip for the next national elections, where President Cerar can say, look, we've started building a second track. We do not need this right now, we need a second track that will be built for as little cost as possible and not at the expense of taxpayers and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u19	You refer to the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, after which each item of the agenda is dealt with in accordance with a specific order of procedure — this has already been established — and may, during the meeting, not more than twice change the order of treatment of each item of the agenda if not opposed by a third of the Members present. Since this has been the case, we will vote on this proposal in order to make it clear. So, I'm putting to the vote a decision taken from your procedural procedure to move the consideration of these points, i.e. on the second track, on Wednesday, 26. 4. 2017. Do you understand what we're voting on? [[advertising from the hall]] It's a procedural proposal, you know what it's like to do with it. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, but they're specially arranged procedurally. Don't joke. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present and 27 votes against 43. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 43.]] This procedural proposal has not been adopted and will now be considered as the third in line. We're moving to five. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Love in the State Assembly after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 79 Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of Ms Janji Slug's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Just at the end of March, we heard a report on the work of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in which it was pointed out that the end of last year had been disregarded for as many as 10 decisions of the Constitutional Court. The basic reason for the adoption of the electoral law in the National Assembly is to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Last April, for example, the deadline for the resolution of the discrepancies established by the Constitutional Court regarding the accessibility of voters to persons with disabilities was expired and the deadline for the removal of the legal void, which touched the post-vote, expired already in 2008. Last year, at the consideration of the novel, for which the legislative procedure had already ended on the home working body, where the proposed additions and the articles had not received sufficient, i.e. two-thirds of the support, in the presence of representatives of the National Election Commission of the parliamentary group, invited them to join the drafting of the new amendment of the law and suggested that, in addition to aligning with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, they should also include amendments resulting from their detailed report on the early elections to the National Assembly in 2011. At the level of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, a working group was formed which was composed of representatives of exactly all the members of the Group, and within three months a proposal was drawn up, which is before us today. The Constitutional Court, by a decision relating to the regulation of elections by post, found that both the Law on Elections to the National Assembly and the Law on Local Elections in Discompliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because it does not regulate more detailed rules on voting by post. However, the Constitutional Court, in the very sentence of that decision, also referred to the way in which we carried out our decision, which we have taken into account in the formulation of the solutions submitted and transposed into this proposal. However, the Constitutional Court found that the first paragraph of Article 79a of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly was inconsistent with the Constitution, by a decision concerning voters available to persons with disabilities and by voting on those voters with specially adapted voting devices for persons with disabilities. The contested regulation, in the view of the Constitutional Court, does not constitute an appropriate and sufficient adjustment to enable disabled persons to have physical access to voters in public buildings and thus, in most cases, the personal exercise of their electoral rights, and has also raised concerns about the arrangements for the identification of voters allowing to vote with specially adapted ballots and voting machines. The draft law will therefore eliminate both of these anti-constitutionalities. It should be borne in mind that the law in force already provides that each electorate has the right to bring with him a person who helps him to complete or deliver a ballot if he cannot do so on his own account. If the electorate is not available to the disabled, the invalid voter may also vote before the building in which the electorate is located. Election committees also have a voting aid for blind and visually impaired voters, so-called templates. Voters who cannot personally vote for the disease may also vote before the election committee at their home. The latter provision may also apply to persons with disabilities. This will therefore be an additional option by means of the proposed post vote, which will make it significantly easier for the disabled to exercise the right to vote. As I said, some amendments have also been included in the proposal on the basis of a detailed report on the holding of early elections in the 2011 National Assembly. A more appropriate deadline for the submission of applications is proposed instead of the 25th day at the latest 30th day before the date of the vote. The powers of the State Election Commission shall be clearly laid down in the special procedure to determine which candidates have been elected as Members and to whom the right to take over the mandate of a Member at the time of his second function. The provision is deleted that public electoral propaganda must end no later than 24 hours before the day of the vote, as this is already regulated by the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. It is proposed that the State Election Commission regulate its business with the Rules of Procedure, following the example of some other authorities, and some minor corrections that do not even need to be listed here. It is certainly very important that the present proposal is based on the constructive cooperation of all the parliamentary groups, for which I thank all the parliamentary groups, of course my own, in this place. There has been a lot of effort, a lot of coordination, but we have a proposal on the table today, and that's what's important. The proposal shall be accompanied by the signatures of 81 Members and Members. And thank you once again to all those involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u21	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 34th session. 4. 2017 as a working body, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer. In the course of the course of business, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the Joint Left Group to Articles 9, 10 and 21. In its supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the bill's proponents stressed the main solution to the bill's proposal relating to the implementation of the two constitutional principles. The draft law also lays down the competence of the State Election Commission to appoint secretaries of electoral units and district commissions, lays down the grounds and procedures for the discharge of secretaries or deputies, and the conditions to be met by an officer in order to be appointed secretary or alternate to the electoral commission. It also provides that the instructions issued by the National Election Commission are mandatory for electoral authorities. The legal basis for the effective implementation of Article 8 of the 1990 Copenhagen Document is also provided, namely full access to the electoral procedure for observers. At the time of presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service highlighted two basic legal concerns or questions, all other issues being nomotechnical comments. With the proposal for amendments to the Committee, this point of the Legislative and Legal Service has been removed. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration said that the Government supports the proposal of the law and firstly welcomes its main objective, namely to comply with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Director of the National Election Commission expressed his support for the bill and said that he also contained some proposals from the State Election Commission that would facilitate its work and, on the other hand, allow new approaches to specific forms of voting. The opinion of the Commission of the Council of State on State arrangements was presented by the Council of State. The Commission fully supported the proposal. In the debate, the representative of the Group of Ambassadors, the United Left, pointed out that the National Assembly should have abolished anti-constitutionality one year ago. Members of the proposed groups stressed that the bill had been discussed longer and wider, the coordination of the Parliamentary Groups and that the President of the State Election Commission had also been included in the debate. Proposals for amendments to the Committee shall be prepared on the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them, 16 in favour and none against. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. As Chairman of the Home Committee, I take this opportunity to thank, for the first time, for the response and constructiveness of the coordination meetings of representatives of the parliamentary groups in preparing this proposal for amendments to the Law on Elections in the National Assembly to all parliamentary groups, and for the second time, for the signatures of both coalition partners, Desus and SD, as well as the opposition SDS groups, Novi Slovenija, both members of the national community and members of the MPs. I believe that this bill is just proof that it is the right to change and regulate things for the benefit of individuals and to improve certain processes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u23	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration mag. Tanya Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted its opinion on the proposal for today's Act amending and supplementing the Law on Elections to the National Assembly on 30 March 2017. In its opinion in the first place, the government welcomes the main objective of the draft law, namely the harmonisation of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly with two decisions of the Constitutional Court, namely the 2007 Decision relating to the regulation of elections by post, and the 2014 Decision relating to voters available to persons with disabilities, and the vote in those voters with specially adapted voting devices for persons with disabilities. In 2011, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted and submitted a proposal to the legislative procedure for the amendment of the ZVDZ-C, the main purpose of which was to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision, but at that time the legislative procedure was unsuccessful. With regard to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision relating to the regulation of elections by post, the Government notes that the proposal under consideration today follows the solution proposed by the Government in 2011 and is also supported by the Government. With regard to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the accessibility of persons with disabilities, the drafter fully follows the Constitutional Court's decision, and that is why the Government supports this solution. In the opinion, the Government proposes some minor additions to the specific articles of the bill, in particular in terms of clarity and effective implementation, and also notes that the amendments of the parent committee have been duly taken into account. In view of the above, the Government supports the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u25	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u26	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we certainly support the abolition of the anti-constitution established by the Constitutional Court. It is about allowing for a post-vote and allowing for the voting of persons with disabilities, which is very appropriate. And it's about time we made those changes. Of course, these changes also take into account the amendment proposed by the National Election Commission. These changes are quite something, and it has been found in the process that some changes are not appropriate, as has been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, and we therefore consider that the law will not be operational in this respect. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we support the solutions, taking into account the amendments tabled by the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u27	The word shall be given by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, Mrs Janja Slug to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u28	The Group of Members and Members from almost all the Members, except Members and Members of the United Left, of the two unrelated Members and of one Member of Desus, submitted to the National Assembly on 3 March 2017 a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly with the basic aim of eliminating the found non-constitutionality of the law relating to discrimination against persons with disabilities in respect of the exercise of electoral rights and on irregularities in the voting by post in the existing law. In addition, we have responded to the warnings of the State Election Commission and have included in the paper some of its proposals, which will facilitate its work, simplify certain electoral processes, allow more effective and external control of the elections, and, on the other hand, have allowed new hunger approaches to be put in place to special forms of voting, especially those with disabilities. The abolition of anti-constitution in laws is within the competence of the National Assembly as a legislator and in the past, or even in this mandate, some amendments to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly have already been tabled, with the aim of aligning with the provisions of the Constitutional Court, but these legislative procedures have unfortunately failed. We are therefore pleased in the SMC Group that, through constructive cooperation, we have succeeded in bridging political differences and almost at the level of the entire National Assembly, with the exception of the exceptions mentioned above, to unify ourselves with respect for those provisions issued under Article 48 of the Constitutional Court Act, and thus with respect to respect for the constitutional principles of the rule of law and the division of power. In this regard, it is worth noting that the Constitutional Court in its decisions has repeatedly pointed out that there is a serious violation of those constitutional principles if the legislator does not respond to its decisions. In the amended bill, which we are considering today at the plenary session, we have almost completely eliminated legal concerns or taken into account the comments made by the Law and Legal Service and the Government, as well as some of the comments made by the Municipality of Ljubljana. The only difference with the Legislative and Legal Service was whether, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court, the abolition of voting facilities in favour of a smaller group of persons with disabilities who cannot vote physically alone without a voter, and the introduction of a new voting option for them was still a constitutional way of exercising electoral rights, or whether it was already an intervention in electoral law. In the SMC Group, we would like to point out that the introduction of a vote by post for persons with disabilities represents only an additional option and does not constitute a substitute for voting with voting machines, which represent a way of voting personally in the electorate. However, we warn or, according to our assessment, increase the possibility that, with lower costs, the voice will give out significantly more people with disabilities than ever before. The exercise of the right to vote by means of voting devices does not cover as many categories of disability as this new possibility of voting by post. In this regard, they would also draw attention to the opinion of the Director of the National Election Commission, who gave it on the home working body, stating that there are valid, reasonable reasons for such a solution, which could be justified in the event of a constitutional complaint. He also expressed the belief that such a solution would pass the proportionality test. However, he regretted that not all persons with disabilities were able to vote in person because of their handicap and therefore all legislation in the Member States of the European Union, including Slovenia, allows for a vote by another person, whether in the electorate or at home or in the post-vote, and that is why, Slovenia is the only exception, it has not decided to use the voting devices which the German Constitutional Court has even banned. In the SMC Group, we will, as active co-founders and co-proposals of the proposed law, of course, support the proposed law, but we would also like the support of the bill to be shown by the few Members and Members who have not joined the amendment as co-proposers. We are convinced that their fears and concerns regarding the independence of the work of the electoral authorities have been unfounded, as both the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service have confirmed at the meeting of the home labour body that these concerns have been resolved by the amendment proposal of the committee, which will also show the debate on the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u29	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u30	A very nice welcome to all on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! The law that is before us today is the fruit of quite a few months of joint work, in which Mr Dušan Verbič has well coordinated his work and has done his work very properly. We would like to see the consensus reached here when it comes to the implementation of a constitutional decision in favour of persons with disabilities achieved in other areas. There are certainly areas where we have offered cooperation and have also offered appropriate solutions, fundamental development issues, fundamental issues in favour of entrepreneurship, fundamental issues in favour of security, fundamental issues in foreign policy. If these areas were followed by efforts to achieve consensus, the country would be more effective, Slovenia would be richer and people would have more prosperity and certainly a better perspective than at this point. So unfortunately, this law remains a bright point, the second in this mandate. The first was when we proposed a policy change and a change in funding for security at the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence and security services I run, and this was virtually unanimously confirmed in the National Assembly. Today, the solutions offered here, are coherent, are good and, above all, reasonable and at the same time fully implement, and I am firmly convinced of this, all that was meant for the constitutional decision. This makes the constitutional right to passive and active electoral rights for all citizens and citizens, including those who have been deprived of life in one way or another. The same should apply to all aspects of social life. Everyone should always be the same before marriage. Unfortunately, there is still a lot to do here. We will certainly support the proposed law in the SDS, but we will not support the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u31	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Peter Wilfan has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u32	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Before I explain why Members and Members of the Desus Group support the bill that we have on the parliamentary benches, allow me to look at the history of the problem for a moment. Last December, in this so-called temple of democracy, we unfortunately failed to adopt a similar bill to prevent public function holders from becoming legally sentenced to a non-conditional prison sentence of more than half a year. We wanted to prevent the possibility of running for those who have sinned against fundamental values in society and have been convicted of it, but unfortunately the necessary support has not been achieved. However, as we have said many times before, in the Desus Group, we will continue to strive to clearly determine the criteria for the performance of the highest functions in the country, who and under what conditions they can perform them, because unfortunately these issues remain open. In addition to the provisions prohibiting candidatures, the proposal contained solutions for the implementation of the two unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court. The first concerns voting by post and the second refers to voters available to the disabled and voting on these voters. And today, I can tell you the truth, we are finally putting an end to this unconstitutionality. A discussion was held on the home working body mainly on the part of the proposal relating to the abolition of special voting devices for persons with disabilities. The Director of the National Election Commission has repeatedly pointed out that these facilities are totally unnecessary in practice. The Member States of the European Union do not use them, Slovenia is even an exception. Of course, being an exception does not necessarily mean that it is always a bad exception, clearly, we also know positive ones. However, data on the use of voting devices show that only 3,000 41 voters or around 390 voters used the voting apparatus in 14 votes. Between 2008 and 2015, the country totalled €2 million and €31 000 for the purchase of voting devices, renting them and all the additional costs. Here, of course, I must point out that it is not right to exercise the right to associate the electoral rights of persons with disabilities with the costs that these devices bring, in the first place, to allow all persons with disabilities to exercise their constitutional right in the easiest way for them to vote. For this reason, we have looked for additional options abroad, through the Republic of Austria, which allows people with disabilities to vote by post. We believe that this would even increase the possibility of giving its voice to significantly more people with disabilities than ever before, especially when it is taken into account that, under the new regime, all voters will be accessible to persons with disabilities. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that 90 % of Members and Members have contributed to the draft law, which gives the proposal additional weight, and in particular it is not possible to forget that the provisions of the proposal bring an important alignment with the two decisions of the Constitutional Court. The harmonisation deadlines for the elimination of non-compliance are long overdue. We will, of course, support the proposal in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u33	The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, a magi for her. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Social Democrats are among the 81 signatories to the draft amendments and to the Act on Elections to the National Assembly. We primarily want to regulate the two issues on which the Constitutional Court has established an unconstitutional situation in recent years with decisions. In the first decision, the Constitutional Court found that the law was inadequate and insufficient to deal with the question of the consideration of the votes which had arrived by post. This content is now carefully regulated by the time of arrival of the mail to the electoral commission and the stamps on the envelopes proving the time of delivery of the mail. In the second decision, the Constitutional Court decided that all voters must be accessible to persons with disabilities, which is clearly defined by the legal text, but the issue of accessibility of voters for persons with disabilities is not yet sufficient by law. In the fact that we have more than half of all in Slovenia, that is over a thousand 600 voters, to arrange for them to be accessible to the disabled, then we have much work to do in this area. With an up-to-date cooperation with the National Election Commission, the main work mentioned will be on the District Election Commissions. The latter will probably have to look for new polling sites on one side or propose solutions to make people with disabilities available in the current electorate and, on the other hand, ensure that they do not simply solve this issue by eliminating voters. Social Democrats are aware that this is also a sensitive issue related to financial resources, so it is essential that we assess the need to tackle the issue of accessibility as soon as possible. We are convinced that the primary wish of all disabled persons is to allow them to vote on their mother's ballot. Some other issues that have proved to be unregulated, inadequate or inadequate in the practice of conducting elections and referendums are now being addressed in a more appropriate manner. Thus, the law provides for the abolition of special voting devices intended for disabled persons who have proved themselves to be a very low margin of voting in practice, with the participation of non-disabled persons in voting on these facilities. However, the total costs associated with these voting devices were high. For persons with disabilities, an additional voting option is envisaged by post, which could make it easier for many people to participate or vote in elections. Furthermore, the bill provides that individual members and their deputies and secretaries and deputy secretaries may be relieved of their functions in the event of their non-disclosure in the electoral commission. In doing so, it should be stressed that, unfortunately, in practice, there are still cases where individual members of the electoral commissions do not attend. They do not even justify their failures and thus make the work of the electoral authorities more difficult and delegate their part of the task to other members, which cannot be accepted. An important novelty brought by the law is also that candidate lists will be submitted after a new one no later than 30 days before the day of the vote, which in practice means 5 days earlier than before. In this way we will also gain some day more in sending full votes to our citizens, who will vote by mail from abroad. The draft law also provides an adequate legal basis for the State Election Commission to regulate its business with the Rules of Procedure in more detail and lays down the obligation to comply with the instructions of the State Election Commission to other electoral bodies, in particular the electoral commissions and the District Election Commissions. In doing so, we need to know that the electoral commission is responsible for ensuring the legality of the elections and for the uniform application of the provisions of the law governing electoral procedures. Finally, by means of a proposal for a law, we also establish an appropriate legal basis for the effective implementation of Article 8 of the 1990 Copenhagen Document, which provides full access to the electoral procedure for observers. Members and Members of the Social Democrats are of the opinion that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly are good and for the purpose of better implementing electoral procedures in practice are necessary and useful, so we will support them in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u35	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for her by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! The Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which is before us today, is the result of a failed package of electoral legislation, as colleague Wilfan earlier said. At that time, it was somehow agreed, in the end, to seek at least agreement on the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court decided three years ago that the current regime on accessibility for disabled voters was unconstitutional, and clearly decided that all voters in the country should be accessible to the disabled. We have been late for more than a year with the abolition of the anti-constitution. Where are the reasons for this? These reasons concern that, in addition to the abolition of the anti-constitution in the draft law, there are always other solutions or provisions that have nothing to do with this. And this time we have a similar situation. The provisions referred to above relate to the resolution of members of the electoral authorities. These are bodies that are concerned with the legality of elections, and therefore it is imperative that they be independent and independent in their work. The proposed provisions, which give political parties and parliamentary groups the opportunity to dismiss members, certainly affect their independence. Even though they must act independently of any instructions, they will be able to call themselves politically responsible after a new one. We are opposed to this in the United Left, so we are proposing to delete these provisions with amendments. More on this later in the debate. However, we also have a few concerns about the provisions that eliminate unconstitutionality. The first is that the proposal, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, provides that all voters must be made available to persons with disabilities. In the United Left, we have always advocated this issue to be resolved, and the provision that provides without exception that all voters are accessible to the disabled is for us the only one that is acceptable, and the one that we of course support. But we're afraid there's going to be a problem in practice here. As a result, we wanted to obtain assurance from the government committee and the State Election Commission that the result of this new provision would not be mass imprisonment of all voters who were not adapted or accessible to the disabled. We also wanted to obtain the government's assurance that it would work with local communities to actively address the accessibility problem and, of course, also provide funds for the purchase of equipment or for the removal of so-called architectural barriers. Only then will electorates and voters be able to go to the same polls as they do every time and not 15 or 20 kilometers away from the electorate. And if we're going to write in the law today that all voters have to be available to the disabled, and in the first election, that would be the closure of 50, 100 or more voters, then we didn't actually do anything. This would also be an intervention in the exercise of an active electoral right, and in the case of the Constitutional Court's judgment, we will probably be again at the very beginning in such a case. The second thing that has disturbed us in the proposal is the abolition of special voting devices. It is true that, with regard to these provisions, the Constitutional Court has not found the contrary to the Constitution, but such a decision has been taken because the law does not specify the conditions and manner in which the electorate is designated and equipped with such an apparatus. In the decision itself, several possible solutions are listed and this proposal does not take into account either of them, because it simply shuts down these voting devices. This measure is seen as abolishing a standard that has already been achieved and therefore the question on the ground is whether the solution is appropriate and whether it is even in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. On the basis of the United Left, we fear that, if possible, we will be re-examination of the provisions of this law at the beginning. We fear that the chances of people with disabilities giving their own votes in elections after this law will not be any better, and given that we have not yet received concrete answers to our questions, there is also the possibility that voters will be imprisoned in the next elections. Although we will not oppose the proposal in the United Left, we will only support it if we obtain the above assurances from the Government and, of course, if our amendments are adopted, we will delete the disputed provisions concerning the resolution of the members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u37	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u38	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The right to vote is the foundation on which the whole parliamentary democracy and democratic structure of the country are based. Without elections, of course, there is no democracy. That is why the issue of electoral law must be viewed with great care and sensitivity, especially when it relates to the situation of persons with disabilities. On this issue, the Constitutional Court has decided three years ago that the Law on Elections to the National Assembly is inconsistent with the Constitution. In the Court’s view, the existing legal regime does not constitute an appropriate and sufficient adjustment to enable disabled persons to have free physical access to voters in public buildings and thus, in most cases, to obstruct the personal exercise of their electoral rights. It is also in line with the Constitutional Court's decision that the Constitution does not comply with the provisions governing the election of voters, which allow for a vote with specially adapted ballots and voting machines, since the law does not provide for obligations and no criteria for determining the eligible voters. Their determination is left to the discretion of the constituencies of the electoral commissions. It is already clear from this arrangement that disabled persons are not guaranteed such flexibility by voters as to ensure their actual equality to the fullest extent possible. In the view of the Constitutional Court, it is therefore an intervention in the right of persons with disabilities to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner in relation to electoral law. The Constitutional Court issued the decision in which it made these observations three years ago. The government has been late for a year with a bill. Also due to the fact that the Law on Elections to the National Assembly represents one of the most important laws to ensure the democratic order of the Republic of Slovenia, it is high time for the National Assembly to abolish the unconstitutional regime of electoral law. The proposal of this law stipulates that voters must be accessible to all persons with disabilities, as well as the amendment of Article 81 by Austrian example, allowing for the voting by post to be done by persons with disabilities. We prepared a personal assistance law in New Slovenia that helps disabled people to improve their lives as much as possible. We are pleased that the National Assembly has adopted our proposal for a law. This bill largely pursues similar objectives related to the assistance of persons with disabilities only by focusing on a slightly more specific area of electoral law. Moreover, the obligation imposed by the Constitutional Court is very clear. In Novi Slovenije we will therefore support the amendment of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. However, we hope that this will not result in the abolition of certain voters, because then we have not done much to improve active electoral rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u39	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you, President. I'm going to explain all three amendments, because they're actually substantively connected. As I have already said in my position, we have the most or principal concerns, as regards the law, in this new provision, which allows for the early resolution of members of the electoral authorities. In our view, these provisions are disputed because they are insufficiently clear or insufficiently defined and allow for interference with the independence and independence of the electoral authorities. The Constitutional Court also made clear how it should be ensured. It is true that the provisions adopted by the amendments on the Committee have improved slightly, but the provisions still provide for the possibility of political parties and parliamentary groups to resolve them. It is logical that members be dismissed for reasons that are also mentioned, that is, if they lose their electoral rights, they no longer fulfil the formal conditions for the office of the President or a member of the electoral body, and that remains in law the possibility of members being called political responsibility if I so designate them, and that is unacceptable to us. In particular, discharge for non-compliance with the so-called mandatory guidelines of the State Election Commission, which is very broad as a definition or too broad. If you look at past instructions, you can quickly find that such a solution could also be proposed because of a minimal or minor violation that has nothing to do with a violation, such as laws or the partiality of an individual. Such a provision could ultimately require political responsibility from one part of the members, i.e. those proposed by political parties and parliamentary groups. And here the very question is whether it still guarantees the so-called independence and impartiality of these bodies. Since the coalition of provisions has slightly rectified with its amendments, we are no longer proposing a complete deletion of these Articles, namely 8, 9, and 10, but only that part of the provisions relating to the possibility of discharge due to non-compliance with the instructions of the National Election Commission, which, I stress once again, are very broad and general and therefore open the way for this mechanism to be used to call on the responsibility of those members of these bodies, who are appointed by political parties or sent-off groups. Finally, the ZPS provided a clear framework for how this independence is ensured. And by these new provisions introduced by this law, we introduce or lay the groundwork for the resolution of political parties and sent groups because of the lack of respect for the extremely general guidelines. This is the concern that largely escapes us from this bill. Above all, the fact that these provisions do not really have anything to do with what were constitutional decisions. We know that this has not been written down or expressed, so it is a new mechanism, which is more than the initiative of the National Election Commission, which introduces itself into this law and does not, in fact, have any need. I repeat, we support all the other solutions in the law, making eligible voters available to the disabled, but there are, of course, open questions, whether this will result in the closing of voters. I would comment only on the claims concerning these voting devices. As I have already said in my position, these voting devices have certain pluses and minuses, from cost to how much they are in use, but on the one hand we cannot weigh the possibility of exercising an active electoral right at the expense of these devices, we cannot weigh this by how many people actually use these devices. If we want to follow what the Constitutional Court has decided, that is to say that voters must be accessible to all persons with disabilities, that is also to say that, and this is also recorded in the sentence of the judgment, these people themselves exercise their active electoral right to withdraw one of these ways, that is to say, voting devices that are specially adapted for those who cannot exercise or exercise these rights themselves more heavily, probably one step backwards. This solution should also be reconsidered. Once again, I would really like to hear the government's assurance that there will be no voter closures in future elections and that it will also do everything with local communities to secure financial resources, and also the will to equip those voters who now exist or have been used to date with appropriate clans and similar equipment and, of course, to remove all other architectural obstacles. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u41	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. I would like to discuss this question, which I also said in my position, that voters are in public buildings, in the countryside in particular, in places that do not allow access to persons with disabilities. When I went to see the voters, as far as I know them, they were mostly firehouses, what municipal innhouses and so on. And those older buildings, including the public, also the municipality have no access to disabled people. They don't have an elevator or a bench to be able to access. In the firehouses — we know that these elections are early in the spring or late in the autumn — there is no other option than to take the car out and access to the disabled is possible in the garage. But all the other rooms that the firehouse has are mostly on the floor. How, then, can we ensure that the election committee sits there for eight hours or six hours in an unheated space or how to heat it, since firefighters need to warm the garage so much that the water does not freeze, and nothing more? I fear that the abolition of these voters will take place, and that this will then be passed on to local elections, and that we will make it a greater decline in the participation of the elections than the fact that so many people with disabilities will vote for it. I think we should think about it. Who's gonna have to make that happen? In most cases, the congregations provide for local elections in this area, and there are voters then for the national assemblies and all for the other elections. I think that the competent ministry should also work with the municipalities, make some sort of plan to ensure, and in no way eliminate these voters. Because we've already shut down a lot of them, and then we figure out how many voters are going down because we're centralizing it. We have one such example in the municipality, where we have two voters practically in the same building – for those who are close to us, and for the inhabitants of three villages, which are a few kilometers away. Because there's no suitable facility, no public, no firehouse, nothing. And mostly the ones who go to Mass on Sunday, and then the voters. They'd be more elected, sure if there were voters somewhere in the middle of that constituency. Therefore, I am reminding the competent authorities to agree with the municipalities to prepare or to change some conditions, that there may be voters in a private house or in an establishment, to move from the present place to this. And it is in time that there will not be a problem just before the elections, when the District Electoral Commission finds that voters are inappropriate, and it will be easier to stop this and turn voters a few miles or more into another electorate. And here we're going to have a safe cut in electoral participation, maybe ten times as much damage as we're going to bring people with disabilities to the polls.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u43	Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I am joining my colleague in thinking that it would not be good to abolish the electorate further, while here I refer to the data of the State Election Commission, which says that from 3112 voters throughout our country, 1,482 voters are already available for the disabled, representing a good 47%. I think that in fact, when we talk about these adjustments, those in private spaces are particularly problematic, and these are, fortunately, only 498. These are, of course, the ones that are somehow the most under attack at this point, because of course they are located in the countryside and it is possible that there is indeed the most challenging task of how to harmonise matters. The availability of the electorate himself, the proximity of the electorate himself, is, of course, one of the factors for a good election participation, but I certainly don't think he's the only one. If this were so important, I think our country should have one of the highest electoral participations, because we also have the highest number of voters per capita, if we look at it comparatively, that is not the case. Here we have heard some assurances, including by the State Election Commissions, that these matters will be rationally resolved, that it will try to approach these things as constructively as possible, and I believe that this will be the case. If I turn to these amendments tabled by the United Left. Amendments to Articles 9, 10 and 21 were tabled on the home working body and have now been added to Article 8. Article 8 refers to the reasons for the discharge of the Vice-President or Deputy Member of the State Election Commission, and these reasons also somehow follow those referred to in Articles 9 and 10 and are proposed for the dismissal of members of the District Electoral Commission and the Electoral Commissions and the secretaries of these electoral bodies. Let me say that these officials are resolved if they so require, or if they no longer meet the formal conditions for appointment to this function, they are said to lose the right to vote or that the judge ends the judicial service. Now it is added that this unscrupulous function is being performed. In the view of the United Left, this should affect their independence and independence. In some of the positions of the parliamentary groups, it has been explained by what the Director of the State Election Commission has also said that it is a real problem when certain members of their function do not do as they should when they do not attend meetings. This does not mean that things are not only involved during the duration of the elections, but also in the meantime, and this poses a serious problem for the functioning of the committees. The United Left here says that solutions are also a call to political responsibility and that this means an intervention in independence and autonomy, as I said, that they are somehow linked to instructions and that there is no appeal procedure. Here I would point out that the absence of any protection in this law does not mean that there is no possibility of a complaint, but against this decision it is possible to raise a constitutional dispute, as the law provides in the administrative dispute that, if no other legal remedy is provided for in a particular case, the judicial protection of the rights and legal benefits of individuals against decisions and actions of the public authorities is, of course, ensured in an administrative dispute. I would also like to point out that the United Left has always participated in these meetings, in this working group and that, as participants, they also know exactly why and how the solutions to Articles 9 and 10 really appeared and what the purpose of these solutions was. Of course, it must be acknowledged that the original solution envisaged was not appropriate and was unclear and incomplete, so they had comments on those solutions both by the Government and by the Legal and Legislative Service, both of them warned that such solutions could indeed undermine the independence of the members of the electoral bodies, but for this purpose an amendment was drafted by the committee which included a reason for the discharge of the non-disclosure of the function. This reason follows the solution set out in the 2011 Draft Law on Elections to the National Assembly. That novel was not adopted at the time, and its proposer was the Government. And that novelty contained the possibility of dismissing members for reasons of non-participation of a member in the enforcement of the electoral tender act. That's how that diction went down at the time. And this solution, in the view of the working group in which you proposed these amendments, was too narrow and therefore this solution, which is now on the table in this proposal, is an unscrupulous exercise of office, and this unscrupulous exercise of office implies the non-participation of a member at the electoral body meetings, which is not limited to the time of the election, but also to the tasks related to the conduct of the elections, its inactivity in the part of the body itself. With this amendment to the Committee, the thought previously expressed by the Rule of Law and the Government has been overturned. In addition, it should be stressed that such a solution in this proposal now follows somehow the legal logic of our legal order, our legal system, namely that the body that appointed the person in a particular function can, of course, also resolve it under certain conditions, and in particular can resolve it if we are talking about some ground of guilt. Let me also read a piece of the magnetogram from my mother's working body, quote the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service: “We have expressed our first concern about the proposed regulation of the discharge reasons. We have stressed, taking into account the constitutional practice that the discharge reasons can have a significant impact on the independence and impartiality of the electoral commissions, which is necessary, both by the Constitutional Court, because of the equality of electoral law. Therefore, in our opinion, there was a very controversial proposal that these officials should be resolved on the basis of a single proposal, or a request from a parliamentary group or political party, without any substantive reasons." And then the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service continues: "We find that with the amendment of the Committee this thought has been removed." So you're fired. I would also like to draw attention to the legislative material of 1992 when the initial draft Law on Elections to the National Assembly was adopted, and it is clear from the explanation of the bill's proposal that, in my opinion, the electoral authorities are some kind of court-political tribunal concerned with the legality and legitimacy of all electoral processes and that, therefore, representatives of political parties should also be in its composition. This proposal also points out that, of course, the composition must also reflect the relationship between political parties. If I now read from the Rapporteur on 14 May 1992, there is a justification for the proposal to issue the Elections Act to the National Assembly. I quote on the principles on which the law is based: “The organization of elections and the functioning of electoral bodies is based on the following principles: as far as possible, the proportional representation of political parties is taken into account in the composition of the electoral bodies.” And then from the next chapter, the main solutions to the law. Under point 3.4, the last sentence, entitled “In particular, their composition, in which both legal experts and proportionate political parties are represented, is more detailed.” If so, some active control of political parties is expected, but of course this does not mean, as the United Left argues, that this active control allows these members to give instructions. However, it is legitimate for these members to expect to carry out their functions, as I said, actively and conscientiously, and to exercise this control, for which they were also appointed primarily. Therefore, I do not see any difficulty in seeing that if there is an inactive member who does not participate in the work of the electoral authority or goes there alone and only because of the financial compensation he receives and would, of course, continue to perform this function, it is perfectly legitimate, in my view, that such a member is called off or dismissed. As regards the dismissal of members of the lower electoral bodies from judges and legal experts by the State Election Commission, I should point out that the provisions of the current law, which ensure the legality of the elections, and also ensure the uniform application of the provisions of the law relating to electoral procedures, also harmonise the work of electoral commissions, electoral units and district electoral committees and provide some professional guidance on the implementation of the law and oversee their work, which is why these proposed solutions actually fully follow the objectives of the original 1991 law, which I have already read, and somehow follow this established hierarchy among the electoral bodies. This is based precisely on those provisions and shall apply in the same way as in the judicial branch of the Authority. These provisions allow the State Election Commission to exercise this control I spoke about, and without the possibility of releasing the members of the lower electoral authorities for the unlawful reasons of this control or task, the State Election Commission cannot at all carry out this task. It's the only way. As for the secretaries of the electoral authorities and their orders, let me point out that secretaries are not officers. And because they are not officials, they don't make a mercurial decision, but they're some government officials, some public officials who only perform administrative tasks for the electoral commission and care for some support environment, for some support part of these commissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u45	I see there's still interest in the debate. Please sign up. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you. Just a few responses. As on the board of a fellow Servant by operating on numbers in some way relativises the issue before us today due to a decision of the Constitutional Court, so that everyone should have access to and the possible exercise of an active electoral right. I stress this because, in the case of such a question, it is impossible to count what is reasonable and what is not reasonable, it is simply necessary to ensure that it is recorded. So to all of you, they're exercising this right. But let's just leave it. As far as assurance is concerned, the DVK did not put them at that board meeting, at least not publicly, so that it would be perceived as a magnetogram. I'm still waiting for these assurances from the government, so is there any chance that voters will close down. If 47% are now adapted or accessible to persons with disabilities, they should be 100% after the adoption of this Act. As for the cooperation of the ZL – I understood this as an obvious point – we participated in coordination and stressed all the time what I am saying here today. In short, our concerns are the same from the beginning and we have repeatedly explained why and why they need to be changed. Now what's the point of our amendments is that it's not a political responsibility and I don't know what. What you are proposing is that the National Election Commission may also resolve the President or a member or his deputy of the District Electoral Commission or the Electoral Commission within the constituency if they have acted contrary to the second paragraph of Article 26 of this Act or if they have failed to comply with the mandatory instructions set out in Article 37 of this Act. As I said before, these mandatory instructions, which the DVK writes, are very broad, define a lot of things. This is not just about obstructing the procedure, such as not going to meetings or some illegality, but also about completely trivial matters. And for this reason, we note that at a certain point this could be a trap, which also means political resolution, yes, a politicalally appointed member of these bodies, but a member who must be independent and independent. And that's what's wrong here. We need to reverse the logic. Political parties and parliamentary groups may propose members, but we think that this possibility should be taken away from them, because this means that if they do not comply with certain instructions that, for example, a political party gives to this member, who must be independent and independent, then this is of course a call to political responsibility. If we don't like the way it works in this electoral body, we can drop it. This is a problem and this is a thing that does not need to be written into this law at this time, for the first time, because it does not eliminate any constitutional dispute, and secondly, because two things make it unnecessary, as the first time and secondly, because it introduces the possibility of exactly recalling these officials on those foundations that are not necessary. As far as we're concerned, we've criticised the fact that there's no possibility of a complaint. It wasn't our very important criticism, it was just by the way. The law now states that no complaint against the State Election Commission is possible, so there remains an administrative dispute, which we know lasts for a long time. It is said that someone would be relieved, this would have worked immediately, so his function would have ceased. And only if this thing had happened and actually been an ex-member would the administrative dispute have arisen and it would have been very difficult for these things to be rectified or damaged in the meantime would it be simply too much. Once again, the first thing is that voters should not be imprisoned, and the second is that we do not have any need at this time to introduce these officials into this law because it is controversial on the one hand, and on the other hand it is unnecessary at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government and also to you, colleagues and colleagues! It is almost amazing that in the 26th year of Slovenian autonomy we are solving the problem of access to voters by people with disabilities. But I want to continue the story in a positive light, better late than never. I am pleased and pleased that all the parliamentary groups here have reached some consensus, and I owe thanks to all those who have somehow coordinated this parliamentary process of amending the Law on Elections to the National Assembly. I particularly want to expose my colleague Janjo Slug here and also Mag. Baby Verbich. I am also sure that this should, in fact, be a school case of how to resolve other very important issues of our country and our society. When we can sometimes fail to make some concrete reform moves in terms of modernising individual social subsystems, when we cannot follow the needs of the economy, improving the business environment, the competitiveness required by the globalisation market, we are obviously lagging behind as regards the business environment, perhaps even for several years. That's why others beat us to the left and to the right. I must say that with this discrimination against persons with disabilities, as far as their access to voters is concerned, I have been working on my parliamentary question since 5 December 2014. Today we are two years and four months later. Then somehow, as far as the answer to my question was concerned, I was redirected from one ministry to another ministry. Well, after almost half a year, more precisely on May 21, 2015, Minister Boris Koprivnikar gave me an answer. It is almost unbelievable that today 47% of all 3 000 100 voters do not allow access to disabled people. That's amazing. And if I try to put myself in the skin of a disabled person who asks on election day or gets a notice of where the voters are, and of course my closest constituent, my object knows whether it is a firehouse, as my colleague Lah mentioned, usually it is in the countryside, or some other facility. And then when the cripple finds out, yeah, the voter's on the first floor, but the lift's not -- what's he gonna say? “I am not going to vote. I'm not going to vote." This is amazing that it is only today — I do not understand — that it is only today that we are solving this one key issue or the rights of every citizen of our country. If someone went into the analysis of how many voters did not exercise electoral rights because they were handicapped in one way or another, because they were disabled and were not able to access the electorate or have not decided to go to the electorate, then I believe that these numbers would be dramatic. Thank God we have gathered enough political will here in April 2017 to remedy this great anomaly and to remedy, of course, injustice, only for the future, for all those who have happened to them, for all those who have been affected by the state, for all those who have not come to the polls for lack of access. And we, the Members of New Slovenia, will be watching with a watchful eye how this law will actually be implemented in the field if you want. In fact, we want all of these obstacles to be rectified as soon as possible, or to be more clear, we want this law, which receives support, to be implemented in this national assembly, to be implemented in a consistent manner with the last letter of the provisions of this law. Unfortunately, however, we cannot support the amendments of fellow Members of the United Left in the New Slovenia Group of Members of the Christian Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much! Comrade Horvath, thank you for your compliments. I certainly don't have any credit, I think it's our joint work, which I would like more than once here in this hall and perhaps on the working bodies. But I'd still like to join some of your opinions. I also agree with the fact that, in fact, the whole proposal is a situation such as this, and, of course, the Government is the one that will have to take certain measures, certain adjustments, some investments, others are local communities, but, as it is said, the most problematic are those voters in private spaces, where we have no influence and will have to somehow coordinate and work on the ground, perhaps in the way we did when we formed this bill together. The solutions are, of course, different. Somewhere you will be able to use these so-called assembly klans, elsewhere you need to make some architectural adjustments. Nevertheless, we today would not be in this situation if we had adhered to what we have adopted in law. Let me just point out that the Construction of Buildings Act was adopted in 2004 and that Slovenia has also acceded to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2008, and this long period of time to date has been an ideal opportunity for this work to be done in pieces, so that even a financial contribution may be a little fragmented for these years, and I am afraid that we have actually not done much at this time, and now we have what we have. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which Slovenia has also signed, already states in Article 9, that all persons with disabilities must have equal access to the physical environment, transport, information, communications, facilities and services. So also removing barriers to access to buildings. And this is now the kind of bravado we've made with inactivity in all these years, and at one point we have to face it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Tanya Richtaj, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The answer to the question raised or concerns about the availability of voters or the possibility of closing and the role of the Government in providing these conditions. It is worth noting that the debate has also highlighted the difference in the case where voters are in private-owned premises or in those cases where they are in public or state ownership. In another case, the electoral authorities will have to examine carefully what these premises are and also propose what adjustments will be needed. On behalf of the Government or the Ministry of Public Administration, which is responsible for the area of real estate management and, last but not least, for the local self-government and electoral system, we will actively seek to find appropriate solutions, but will not be able to replace or adapt those privately owned premises from public funds. In this case, the role of the electoral authorities as well as the State Election Commission is crucial. In fact, at a lower level, electoral authorities have an autonomous right to determine the location as well, and in this case there will be more involvement needed to agree on a replacement voter. Here I can only point out that we will play an active role, but other stakeholders, as mentioned, are also key. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Any other requests for discussion at Article 8? I'm asking you to sign up. Mag. Dušan Verbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. In view of the fact that the debate took place with regard to Article 8 above, the amendments already gave a speech on Articles 9, 10, I will allow myself not to have a general discussion, but I will be more concerned with the amendment if you allow me, Vice-President, to speak a few words concerning the amendments tabled in Article 10, and then I will no longer be involved. What I have to admit is that by the proposaler, given that they were really very nice activities that were constructive in the working group, even on the home committee, but you know, I am surprised, in particular, that there was a fact – that the proposer of these amendments did not say at all that the applicable Law on Elections to the National Assembly of the Institute of Functioning in these so-called electoral bodies did not specify at all. And given that I also include the applicants in other debates, debates, laws in particular in this group that want transparency, I would also like to see changes in some way, efficiency, in particular improvements in processes, so much more surprising in this case that these amendments, which are bound by Article 9, are tabled, but I will focus more on Article 10, which is written in the direction that the proposed provisions are deleted, allowing the State Election Commission to do what has been said in the debate, the Registrar, in this case, by the President of the Electoral Commission, the Director of the State Election Commission and so on. It is the fact that persons who are legally entrusted with a responsible function, if so called, within the mandate, if they are not active or in any way present some circumstances that normally restrict the good work of those authorities or commissions cannot be replaced. I must admit that, in some ways, I find it difficult to understand the proposaler, because the fact that these functions, not only are members of the electoral commission or the district electoral commission, also apply to the secretary, is essentially functions that are honorable. But not so much in this honor – at least as far as the secretary is concerned, the work must be carried out in the most conscientious, responsible manner – especially what is not only the one as the body, but all, when these so-called electoral procedures occur, must be carried out in accordance with the law, regulations, and so forth. And the fact is, for secretaries, it is still crucial that they are truly operational agents of the work of both institutions or bodies. And the fact is that they must ensure, as has already been said in the debate, not only administrative and technical conditions, they are practically required to provide logistics. And the presidents of these committees, who are mainly judges, except for the State Election Commission, rely heavily on their intensive work, knowledge of content, expertise and the like. It is completely understandable to me if any situation of doubt arises, suspicion of irregularity, perhaps a departure from the very essence, that then they are simply untouchable, because the interest of all of us voters, taxpayers, is that these bodies are truly trustworthy and also effective. Because, nevertheless, it is important to mention – if I touch on at least the National Election Commission, which is indisputably the body that really cares about the legality of elections and the uniform application of electoral legislation, but I think that there is too little in these debates – that the State Election Commission has a lot of activities under this rule of law, because they literally issue conclusions, instructions, guidelines, recommendations and what else I know, we can say so-called sub-legislations that are in some way exclusively within the competence of the National Election Commission. What I think is crucial is perhaps only a little bit more, because the speech on the abolition of both constitutional decisions and the provision of conditions for persons with disabilities, the spatial or the procedure that is now possible through the so-called written or postal route. I just wanted to point out something that we simply forget that the District Electoral Commission – and here plays a truly active role as secretary – defines voters and polling areas. And I must admit that I am firmly in the position that the District Electoral Commission, together with the secretary, will still, of course, with the support and cooperation of the State Election Commission, be careful in identifying voters and polling areas in relation to both constitutional decisions. I don't understand why it hasn't yet, but I do believe that maybe this was the reason why constitutional decisions were not consistently implemented – because there were no sanctions. I also believe that the State Election Commission, which might have come to the point of replacing a secretary, is also firmly convinced that the President of the National Election Commission and his deputy, who have been appointed supreme judge, are simply not doubtful of their objectivity in such a view of proposing any replacement. And after some analogy, I would also like to make this in relation to political parties or parliamentary groups that propose members of the electoral committees of the electoral unit or the district electoral commission. I will not continue to touch on the responsibilities of the electoral commission, the electoral unit and close ties with the President and the Deputy, who is also a judge by status or profession, but who simply needs real good support from the secretary and, of course, other administrative work, which we know is provided by administrative units. And it is absolutely in place and it is high time that we have arranged this issue in a way that, if the Presidents of the Electoral Commissions of the electoral unit or the District Electoral Commission, in cooperation with the State Election Commission, assess that there are no results of the holders of the so-called administrative support or of the other disruptive elements within these committees, there is a replacement. And for me, it's perfectly logical. In this case, the person who proposes the candidate – and I will not now go to the State Election Commission or individual electoral units – logically has an objective assessment of who is who can better perform the entrusted function and propose a replacement. I don't see any problems and problems here, and I think it's the only right thing to do. Far from sanctioning something unobjective here. And for me, a key argument protected exactly the functions of the presidents of these institutions. So, judge of the Supreme Court or other judges. For the end, just two more words. What the colleague has already said is that the secretaries and other administrative assistance to these so-called electoral commissions are simply not functional. However, they must be very good experts in these so-called administrative, administrative and also in the process of electoral legislation. And it is true that the presidents, the judges who know this area, need their help very closely. For this reason, I do not understand the proposaler precisely because of the better effectiveness of the functioning of these bodies. And so I can only make it clear that I am rejecting all the amendments tabled for this very reason. However, I believe that practice may always show some shifts, but it is a real guarantee to me that work in these matters will be essential, at least in individual cases – because in most cases or 90% or 95% of us were citizens and voters satisfied with the work of these – in some cases they were rejected and the State Election Commission was powerless to help make any movement in this matter. For the end, I also thank you for all the praises expressed, if I say so, but it is correct that I really thank here, in particular, the experts of the groups of Members, because with their activity we have really led to what is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u56	Just for a little while, thank you. I'm not stalling this point anymore because I see it coming to an end. Look, we are not opposed to all possible forms of resolution, but I have repeatedly pointed out that we do not think that the solution you are proposing is appropriate, as it concerns non-compliance with the guidelines issued by the State Election Commission, because they are very broad and general. If I try to show it in a plastic way or caricature it a little bit, we know that the work of the electoral authorities — there are parties and parliamentary groups who have no access to it, so that they cannot, say, monitor what they are doing. And now hypothetically, one electoral authority or one committee member, for example, – not for those reasons that you cited, so that they do not participate or know what — they may not like his thinking too much. What does that mean? So that, I don't know, the secretary of communications to the president, look, this guy's making trouble for us, let the client or the sending group know that this is going to be a problem for us, so they can send us a request to withdraw this member? Because otherwise, I can't imagine how this mechanism is going to work. The parties who appoint a member who should be independent and independent or the parliamentary groups do not know what is going on at the meetings of these electoral bodies. So in this case, I only imagine that someone who is literally this person, who is supposed to be doing problems in accordance with these instructions or other provisions, will simply fail if I use this word to the President of this body and then this President will communicate further with the party or with the sending group. There's this doubt that you haven't resolved, we haven't eliminated it all the time of coordination, and it still doesn't convince me today. So, of course, we insist on these amendments and the vote will do its job, but concerns still exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Can you slow down? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Janja Sluga, the proponent, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u58	Maybe I'd just respond in one piece. With regard to these instructions from the National Election Commission, I find one very interesting, you might say almost an anecdotes if it were not a little sad, as the Director of the State Election Commission said. In fact, when we talk about these instructions that they then give to individual commissions. Despite the fact that the law has not been established for some time, the State Election Commission has been working hard to adapt and become accessible to the disabled. And to that end, she gave one such instruction — but what happened to this instruction? No one really heeded it, and no effort was made, despite the instructions issued to bring it to fruition. Even the situation arose when, as a result of this failure, the State Election Commission issued the same directive for each election again and nothing has moved. Only so much about what kind of instructions the National Election Commission gives, what it wants to achieve with them, and what it is, then, the final purchase of these instructions if they are not mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate at Article 8? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Section 9. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. So no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, the amendments will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the 5th item of the agenda. We're moving to 17. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, this Regulation should enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mags to further explain the motion for a decree. Sashi Jazbec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In front of you is the second Slovenian medium-term fiscal framework, more specifically a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the state sector for 2018-2020, which is prepared in accordance with Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act. The decree sets out the target deficit and the maximum possible amount of expenditure per year for the country sector as a whole and for the four public treasury finances for the next 3 years. The country's target deficit for 2018 decreases to 0.2% of gross domestic product and in 2019 and 2020 Slovenia will record a surplus of 0.2% and 0.4% of gross domestic product. The adoption of the fiscal framework in the National Assembly represents a key medium-term focus and commitment of Slovenian public financial policy. The framework is based on the spring forecast of the macroeconomic indicators of Umarje, the first assessment by the Statistical Office of RS of the deficit achieved in 2016 and the data of current fiscal flows. Data on the level of last year's deficit and improved economic forecast confirm that Slovenia is higher in the economic cycle than originally expected, while at the same time showing that both the more favourable public financial result and the new economic forecast are due to cyclical effects and government measures. The fiscal framework aims at achieving the medium-term balance of public finances, while more favourable macroeconomic trends nevertheless allow for higher ceilings on the expenditure of the state sector and its individual treasury. This continues to mean that the increase in government revenue is higher than the increase in expenditure. This enables us to progressively achieve the public financial objectives in a way that is partly in line with the rules of the European Union, while at the same time striving to maintain a broad-based stable economic growth, which is no longer based solely on exports, but also on strengthening household demand and domestic investment. In order to address the deficit in line with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact, the Government foresees that, with the existing methodology of the European Commission and the accounts of the Ministry of Finance, the balance of public finances, without a negative impact on economic growth, can be achieved by gradually reducing the deficit by the end of 2020. This follows the provisions of Article 148 of the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act. This year's framework was also assessed for the first time by the Fiscal Council. This notes that the structural balance is reduced by lower dynamics than the annual requirement for an economy in normal times under European Commission rules. The Fiscal Council therefore expects the Government to prepare a set of additional measures this year in order to achieve sufficient effort in 2016 and 2017 or at least in 2018 and 2019. In addition, it states that expenditure should be limited by reaching a level playing field in 2019. In its position on the assessment of the Fiscal Council, the Government notes that during the period when we approach the medium-term objective, the Fiscal Rule Act does not prescribe the way and formula for the reduction of the structural balance. The achievement of the mid-term objective in 2019 would constitute an extraordinary structural requirement and rapid further consolidation that could threaten economic recovery and have negative consequences for strengthening the potential growth and well-being of the population. Therefore, in 2015 the Government decided to follow a fiscal rule requiring more gradual consolidation. The government has enabled the path to balanced public finances by actively managing debt, by adopting public sector wage policies and by transferring to individuals and households where it has managed to reduce spending growth through the gradual release of austerity measures, as well as by achieving opportunistic savings in areas where, despite increasing costs with appropriate policies, it keeps spending at sustainable levels. It takes into account the above-mentioned Government's view that the proposal for a decree is consistent with the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act, and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it in the proposed form. Given the existing risks, the Government will monitor current developments in public finances and, where appropriate, adapt measures in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mrs Urški Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at the 73rd urgent meeting and at the first resumed meeting of this meeting. 4. 2017 as a parent labour body, considered the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budget of the State sector for the period 2018 to 2020 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The members of the Committee were also presented with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 10. 4. 2017, assessment by the Fiscal Council of 10. 4. 2017 and the written position of the Government on this assessment of 12. 4. 2017. Representatives of the Government, representatives of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the Fiscal Council and the Legal and Legislative Service were present. The introductory supplementary explanation to the draft resolution was given by the Minister of Finance, who first presented a broader substantive explanation of all relevant documents, both the national reform programme and the stability programme, which is an act describing policies and measures to achieve the objectives set out in the draft resolution. It further presented the content of the proposal for a decree, i.e. the objectives for all four state or public cash registers and the objectives for the next 3 years. This is also explained in detail by the Government's representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance today. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made comments which are reflected in the written opinion of the Service. In the context of procedural issues, the fact that the Committee did not receive the Government's written position on the assessment of the Fiscal Council, as referred to in Article 7, paragraph 4, of the Fiscal Rule Act, was highlighted in particular by the fact that the members of the SDS Group and New Slovenia - the Christian Democrats announced obstruction. I suspended the meeting below and called on the Government to present the Government's written position on the assessment of the Fiscal Council, which we have also received. In the first meeting, Director Umarja presented the key findings of the last spring forecast and presented Slovenia's main macroeconomic indicators and their forecasts for the next 2 years. Following the meeting, the President of the Fiscal Council presented a written assessment of the Fiscal Council, stressing in particular the fiscal Council's expectation that the Government will strengthen fiscal efforts in 2017 and that 0.2% of the GDP point of fiscal effort will be transferred to 2018 and 2019, thereby ensuring a structural fiscal balance by 2020. The Minister of Finance then presented the Government's written position on the assessment of the Fiscal Council and stressed that the Government had examined the assessment of the Fiscal Council and was taking it seriously, giving its reasons for the proposed framework proposal. She said that there was no need to change the decision, but that public financial movements should be closely monitored. In particular, the discussion raised the issue of the methodology to identify the deficit, the question of compliance with Article 148 of the Constitution, the issue of measures to reduce the structural deficit, the issue of drawing on European funds and the substantive issues relating to additional health and pension insurance and the issue of financing large investments such as the second indent. The issue of the resolution of the banking system and its budgetary implications was also mentioned. In the course of the debate, the Minister of Finance replied to the questions raised and provided further clarifications and confirmed that the decree was in accordance with Article 148 of the Constitution. In accordance with Article 148 of the Constitution, the President of the Fiscal Council also confirmed that additional fiscal efforts are needed to ensure that Slovenia does not enter into an unconstitutional state by 2020. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee proposes that the draft decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2018 to 2020 be adopted in the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Urška Ban will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you so much again for saying that. On the basis of the Fiscal Rule Act adopted by the National Assembly in 2015, the decision-making process on the key public financial objectives to be pursued in public financial planning begins with the adoption of the decision that we are considering today. The proposed decree defines two key public financial objectives or contains two types of important decisions. Firstly, it sets out the country's target balance as a whole and individual public finances, i.e. the target balance for the state budget, municipal budgets, health and pension funds. In the next step, it also sets out the maximum possible level of expenditure, both for the whole sector of the country and for the amount of expenditure of individual public finances which are pillars in our country and which ensure stability and security for our citizens. The proposed content of the decree or calculations on which the maximum expenditure and target balance are based, both for the whole sector of the country and for all four public treasuryes, is based, shall be based on taking into account the different data relating to the expected revenue and expenditure both in this year and in the next three years. This data is based on the latest spring assessment of macroeconomic circumstances or macroeconomic indicators, as presented in the spring forecast by the RS Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development of March this year, further from the data from the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services and from the financial plans of the budget users for 2017 and from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia on developments in public finances. All these figures are therefore based on the calculations the content of which is presented in this Decision. On the basis of these starting points and in accordance with the deadlines set by the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government is now proposing to us for confirmation a decree on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2018 to 2020 for the next three years. Although this time in the National Assembly, it is only a second time that we are faced with this kind of decision on the preparation of budgets for the medium term, it is not basically about the content of some new matter in itself. The process whereby the target balance and the maximum possible level of expenditure of the State sector were established was also carried out before the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, all since the adoption of the Stability Pact rules. Data on the country's target balance and target expenditure were included each year in the stability programme, which represented the Slovenian medium-term fiscal framework. The Government responsible for the adoption of this fiscal framework was the Government which, after adoption, forwarded the European Commission for further consideration in the framework of the European Semester. However, with the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act, as I have already mentioned, part of the powers attached to budgetary planning is already being transferred to the National Assembly at this stage. On the basis of Article 6 of the Fiscal Rule Act, the Government is obliged to send a draft framework for the preparation of state budget for the next three years before the final approval of the Stability Programme in 2017 to the National Assembly. And in accordance with the deadlines laid down in the Fiscal Rule Act and taking into account the data already available that affect the future revenue of the State sector and expenditure in this year and the next three years, the Government has forwarded the decree we have on the table. On the basis of April's report by the Statistical Office, which we also took note of at the country's core aggregate meeting of the Finance Committee itself, it was reported that, for 2016, Slovenia recorded a deficit of €609 million or €1.5% of GDP, which is €407 million and 40% less than in 2015. I have just noticed today that, after the first audit in 2016, the country's deficit was slightly higher, 733 million euros, or 1.8% of GDP, which is 124 million euros or 0.3 percentage points higher than we were aware of this assessment on the Committee itself, so I am already asking the proposer whether and how this affects the objectives set out in the decision for the next three years. To a certain extent, this better result achieved in 2016, as already mentioned by the Secretary of State itself, is due to the improvement in the state's economic cycle situation and also to the structural improvements made in previous years. In this way, the 2015 deficit improved by 1.2% of GDP and thus successfully addressed public financial risks. This improved result last year, and further calls for additional fiscal effort already this year, is said for 2017, because when we adopted the 2016 budget, we planned a country's deficit of 1.3% of GDP. According to new projections, those that have been available to us on the Committee, including the stability programme annexed to this decree, are expected to reach a target deficit of 0.8% of GDP this year. In the coming years, the decree foresees a further gradual consolidation of public finances by reducing the country's nominal balance in 2018, the deficit will be 0.2% of GDP, and in the next two years we will record a surplus of 0.2% of GDP in 2019 and 0.4% of GDP in 2020. We can certainly see that this is a significant shift towards overcoming the deficit of the sector of the country that Slovenia will eliminate for the first time since EU entry in 2019 and even create a surplus. On this path, we will also record a significant improvement in the primary balance of the sector of the country, which has been positive since 2015. This paves the way for the medium-term balance of public finances by 2020. However, the nominal reduction in the deficit of the sector is not fully reflected in the improved structural balance of the sector of the country in which we eliminate the impact of the economic cycle and the single event. According to data from the draft stability programme in 2016, the structural balance improved by 0.8% and an improvement of 0.3% is planned for 2017. This means that nominal improvement is not largely due to the adjustment of the structure of public expenditure, but also to the influence of cyclical factors. Therefore, the implementation of the established permanent structural measures, which will improve the structure of public finances and investments that will enhance potential growth, is crucial during this period. These measures are foreseen in the National Reform Programme and also in the Stability Programme and are divided into short-term measures, long-term measures and measures to strengthen growth potential. Taking into account and implementing the measures envisaged by both programmes, both the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, in our view, the Government is following the road map so that the structural balance of the sector will be balanced by the end of 2020 when the medium-term objective is reached. This will be achieved in a way that will make the growth of public financial revenues higher than the growth of public financial expenditure. It is also clear from the stability programme projections that the overall expenditure of the sector will grow slower than nominal GDP by the end of the programming period. This will reduce expenditure from 45 % of gross domestic product in 2016 to 42 % of gross domestic product in 2020, the lowest level since entry into the European Union. This enables the government to progressively achieve its public financial objectives by striving to maintain, as has already been said today, broad-based economic growth, which will no longer be based solely on exports, but also on strengthening the demand for households and domestic investments. However, the fact that we are still in a transitional period of convergence with the medium-term fiscal objective, as set out in the Fiscal Rule Act, must be taken into account when this decision is being considered. At the time of this law, the Fiscal Rule Act is said, we have discussed a lot that the law sets a medium-term fiscal target slightly differently than the medium-term fiscal objective set under the European Stability and Development Pact, as this requires a structural surplus of 0.25% of GDP to be achieved by the end of 2020. Our rule therefore focuses only on the structural effort rule in the coming period and does not highlight the other two European rules relating to the quality of expenditure and the debt rule. Some warnings and recommendations have been given to us in this context at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy itself, according to the adjustment of our public finances to the medium-term fiscal objective, for the first time this year, the Fiscal Council, which we appointed shortly ago in the previous plenary session of the National Assembly, is also included for the first time in some way in the budget planning process since this stage. As an independent professional institution, we have entrusted him with the task of defining, depending on the economic cycle phase for each financial year, the extent of public spending. It is therefore the task of the Fiscal Council to determine in advance whether the envisaged level of public expenditure is appropriate in relation to the stages of the economic cycle in which the State is located and whether it complies with the provisions of the fiscal rule. In an opinion presented to us by the President of the Fiscal Council, she estimates that we are dealing in Slovenia with favourable movements and with a conjuncture in which we could say that our country is already in the normal period of the economic cycle. However, the President of the Fiscal Council warned and recommended to the Government that the fiscal effort in the structural balance should be increased by 2 per cent of GDP in 2018 and 2019, so that by the end of 2017 the government will draw up appropriate measures to actually balance the budget by the beginning of 2020. In this way, according to the Fiscal Council, in 2020, when the medium-term period ends, we will not be in conflict with the requirements set out in the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act. On the basis of the Fiscal Council's recommendations, we expect the Government to assess that there is no need for a change of decision at this time to closely monitor the public finances situation and timely action if certain risks are to be increased. We also expect the Government to actually implement the measures envisaged in the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme in order to ensure the necessary fiscal effort. In the end, if I take it from you. In our current stability programmes, we have committed ourselves to achieving the medium-term fiscal objective in 2020: our medium-term objective is to achieve a structural surplus of 0.25% of GDP, as I said in 2020. This objective, in our view, follows today's decision on the preparation of the country's budget for the next three-year period, where, in view of the more favourable macroeconomic circumstances, the aim of the adjustment rate is also pursued, as I have already said in the introduction. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties to the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposed decree is in line with the current regulation on fiscal policy, which is laid down on the one hand by the Constitution and adopted by the Fiscal Rule Act, and on the other, by European rules. On the basis of the resolution and the draft stability programme annexed to it, we assess that in the future fiscal policy and road planning for final fiscal consolidation will be geared towards supporting stable economic growth and thus ensuring greater prosperity for all of us, and we will therefore support the proposed decree in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We do not support the proposed decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. In particular, because it is not in conformity with the Constitution and in particular because it is not in accordance with the rules of the European Commission governing this area and, of course, we therefore assess that it does not comply with the Fiscal Rule Act. However, Mr Vice-President, let me gradually come to the arguments and explanations for this position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Allow me first to mention the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. At this meeting, the Slovenian Democratic Party obstructed this, which means that we have left the meeting. The report states that we have announced obstruction, and it will have to be added that we have also left the meeting. Very soon after this announcement. For the reason that this meeting did not provide for legality, the legality under the Fiscal Rule Act, which provides in Article 7, that the Government should draw up an opinion or a written assessment of the Fiscal Council, a written position of the assessment of the Fiscal Council. And that was not guaranteed at this meeting. It was not until after further discussion, after we had left the meeting, that the meeting had also been suspended. After the Minister assured her that this opinion would be made by this afternoon. And then this opinion was made by this afternoon, and then the Slovenian Democratic Party lifted this obstruction. And second, which seems even more important to me in this report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, where the following is stated, I quote the last sentence of the first paragraph: “Conformity with Article 148 of the Constitution has also been confirmed by the President of the Fiscal Council, warning that additional fiscal efforts are needed to ensure that Slovenia does not enter into an unconstitutional state by 2020.” Dr Davorin Kkruk, President of the Fiscal Council, said at the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on compliance with the Constitution, Article 148 of the Constitution, on which he was actually asked: "Our answer would be that if we were late to coordinate the structural balance, we would certainly not only be in breach of the rules of the Stability Pact," not only that, it is said, Slovenia would be contrary to the rules of the Stability Pact, "but we will also come into an unconstitutional situation. This is why the Fiscal Council has also proposed a certain minimum increase in fiscal effort in the coming years, so as to ensure that by 2020, when the medium-term period ends, they would certainly not be contrary to what is required by Article 148 of the Constitution or Article 3(1) of the Fiscal Rule Act." It is said that the Fiscal Rule and Constitution Act lays down when public finances are regulated, and the Fiscal Council has proposed a certain effort, by 0.2% or 2%, to make this decision. This was not accepted. The government didn't accept that. And now, of course, he also says that if this is not accepted and because it has not been adopted – perhaps today will be adopted, I don't know – then we can be in an unconstitutional state. Of course, in other words, if I return to this report now – the President of the Fiscal Council, who is not here today, has not confirmed what is said in this report that this is in accordance with the Constitution and so on. Today we are adopting regulations for the years 2018 to 2020 and so on. Today, of course, we can change them, and that makes these records, I'll say, kindly, kindly, inaccurate or at least incomplete. I would suggest that this should be corrected in such a way that the actual situation is stated. That what was actually happening and what someone actually said would be stated. And why is he actually going here? It is essentially to ensure that the country's revenue and expenditure of budgets must be balanced in the medium term without any debt or that the revenue exceeds the expenditure. This can only be temporarily waived in exceptional circumstances for the State. This is provided for in Article 148 of the Constitution in its second paragraph. And now we're assessing whether that's the case. This is further specified by the Fiscal Rule Act, which provides for a balance of revenue and expenditure, which sets out the criteria for determining exceptional circumstances and also provides for the functioning of the Fiscal Council, its powers and also the government's responses to the Fiscal Council, which the Government has not provided at the meeting of the Committee, which is why we have obstructed the meeting. If we move on to just the content of everything that's been said. It is about the fact that the government of Mira Cerar has not made sufficient fiscal efforts, especially if we are looking at a structural deficit. Here the Government and the European Commission, to put it mildly, argue, are proving themselves right, what is right and what is wrong. Here is the question, of course, whether we are committed to the fiscal pact or not. If we are, then we must probably follow what he says. If we're not, we're not. But this debate has been going on for years. The former Minister of Marble has already started this and this is a matter of structural effort. In other words, whether this government will also take certain structural measures to do so and will ensure that certain events actually increase this deficit. This is not what the Government is following, and therefore it does not follow the European Commission, and in my opinion it does not follow the Fiscal Rule Act and, of course, it stops. There have been many discussions about this, but in other words, in the area of expenditure, too little or too little has been done. And this is also pointed out by the Fiscal Council in its first assessment I think that here should give the fiscal world the weight it actually has by law. If we have accepted members of the Fiscal Council, this coalition is committed to making a weight assessment of the Fiscal Council. Not that he says we're going to do this once in a while, that it's some recommendation, that it's not like I don't know what. No, no, no. This should be taken very seriously and, therefore, this decision should also be amended in accordance with the assessment of the Fiscal Council. In other words, this means reducing expenditure or making an effort in the area of expenditure. Unfortunately, this government does not follow. With all the other strangers we have. We'll deal with one later. How much the Government will support in this or other way a second track, for example, and what impact the second track will have on the fiscal rule or on the expenditure of the state budget by 2020. And all the guarantees the government will have to put in here. From this point of view, these figures set by the Government in this decree or proposed by the Government in this decree can be unrealistic, they can also be blind, they can be illusions, in short, they are not what the European Commission requires of us, and they are not what we are actually asking of ourselves through the adoption of a fiscal rule on the Constitution and which are also set out in the Fiscal Rule Act. For these reasons, we will not support this decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In addition, there are many substantive reasons, as well as many things that are not set out. Among other things, there are no measures to be taken by the Government to achieve the fiscal effort it is proposing here. There is a reference to health reform. Look, it wouldn't be about health reform, but as far as I can tell, neither is the coalition definitively negotiated on health reform. Nor would I talk about health reform, because it is likely that order in this health care must be made first so that waiting species do not cause people to die. Then the government mentioned, I'm saying what the government said, the establishment of a demographic fund. The founder of the demographic fund in itself means costs. In the beginning, it means the cost itself. To set up a company, a legal entity, means, at the beginning of 2019, the costs themselves. So from that point of view, look, there's nothing done here. Then the government mentions the whole pension reform until 2019 and so on. Look, for all of this, the only good thing about this decision is that this government will be gone. This Regulation shall apply to 2018 and 2019 to 2020. As a result, it really doesn't matter what this government is planning and what this government is saying, because I think voters and electorates will show courage and also willingness to make sure that such a government really doesn't count for anything to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! Unlike my predecessor here, I will present the position of the Desus Group to the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the country's 2018-2020 sector, but I will not talk so much about the current government, about the future government, and I will also not talk about reforms and how it is a cost to set up a demographic fund and so on. The proposal for a decree sets out the target balance or the maximum amount of expenditure for all four public cash registers, i.e. for the budget of the State and for the local communities as well as for the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and also for health insurance. Our country is working to achieve, firstly, long-term structural measures for the sustainability of public finances; secondly, measures with short-term structural impact; thirdly, measures to strengthen potential growth; and fourthly, measures to achieve economic policy objectives. In order to achieve the main fiscal objective through the gradual consolidation of our public finances, further attention needs to be paid to greater fiscal efforts or to limit expenditure, but in no way, I stress, in any way and under no circumstances, the situation of pensioners and other vulnerable target groups should be further aggravated. While expenditure on medical bills is gradually increasing due to the arrangements and measures adopted, I am not sure that it is right, and the pension register is currently not experiencing too many shocks. If this means hers, let's say integrity or sustainability until the adoption of a new pension reform, we have no problem in our Desus Group. But just the number that the pension bag, if I may metaphorically say so, is worth a little more than 5.3 billion, but doesn't say much or say everything. The highest picture of the practice of personal satisfaction and the social situation of pensioners is sufficient for their basic cost of living and whether they receive a fair and decent pension for their decent work in the past. Recently, our government took note of the annual report of the PIZ last year. We view the report as positive and optimistic in the Desusa Group. It's confirmation that we're working in the right direction. The trend in the number of pensioners has slowed down significantly and represents the lowest growth, I am talking about the number of pensioners in the last 26 years, which is about 0.3% of the points at the annual level. I have deliberately used the word optimistic report, since this means that the pension box will no longer be burdened so much, will not have so much pressure and will have increased opportunities for the independent implementation of some previously neglected, yes, neglected measures that will contribute to better pension status. Efforts in our Desus Group are becoming increasingly visible. This year, all pensioners will be regressed, we have managed to achieve double coordination of pensions by 2016. And we're not gonna stop here, so you can take our word for it. Expenditure on pensions is increased by 2.1% in 2017 due to pension coordination already carried out, as well as 1.15% in February and in line with the projected increase in the number of pensioners. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we will, colleagues and colleagues, and I am particularly glad to see that we have legalised a minimum pension for all those pensioners with a full-time working life of EUR 500 per month. And we're not gonna end up here, either. That's what we promise. The new trends are also talking or the needs are forcing us to formulate an active ageing policy, in conjunction with measures in the labour market. However, the priority is still the implementation of the law on the demographic fund, which may at first sight be in the first phase, an additional cost in the first months or years, and in the long term means the establishment of a demographic fund with a long-term guarantee and the intellectual management of the funds entrusted to it, constitutes a guarantee of sustainability and the smooth payment of pensions to all current and future pensioners. I'm sure it's not just me and Shircel's colleague that we're all aware of that. In line with the proposal for the maximum possible amount of pension expenditure, we will continue in the coming years to address the negative effects of last year's intervention measures, to achieve the real value of pensions and to improve the material situation of our pensioners. The proposal for a decree means easier and more transparent medium-term planning of the country's budgetary policy, despite the fact that we still need the consent of the European Commission. However, despite the recommendations from Brussels, we believe that the timetable set in the case of national reforms is too short to show its actual results. Circumstances are changing all the time, so we are happy, and it is right that there is also a security guard inside that allows for a change in the ruling in view of the current and many unforeseen situations that may occur. In conclusion, colleagues and colleagues, in the Desus Group, we will unanimously adopt the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the state sector for 2018-2020 is certainly a basic document setting maximum spending and the limits on the borrowing of individual treasury funds. So is the state budget, municipal budgets, pension bills and also health bills. The framework we are adopting today by this resolution is even more important because it will go beyond the mandate of both the National Assembly and the Government itself, so this decree will also have consequences for the functioning of the next Assembly and the new government. The fact is that the reason for making such a decision is actually a commitment to a fiscal rule that we have written even into the Constitution in Slovenia. We have thus entered the so-called neoliberal pan-European supervised programme, the main objective of which is to limit or reduce public debt, but at the expense of people who are not responsible for the situation. Slovenia and other countries committed themselves to this at a time of crisis when neoliberal capital was able to convince governments, the media and the public that the only cause of the crisis is public spending. If we look at the situation in Slovenia today, we can see that this restriction on public spending has had serious consequences for economic growth and, as a result, very high unemployment. Over 100,000 people have lost their jobs. In addition, the fact that Slovenia’s public debt has been re-designated could be much lower if the cost of filling the bank hole did not have to be met. As a result, today we face demands to extend savings by 2020, and this raises the question of whether, in all this period, the consequences will indeed be borne by those people who have not caused this bank hole, or whether they will bear the consequences of the elite that we are actually saving through bank rehabilitation. The answer is probably unanimous, as it can be understood by us today that this is actually the task of ordinary people, not of elites. It should also be pointed out that about 400,000 people living on the edge of poverty have already been recorded in Slovenia, but that it is still one of the main issues of how much, say, a minimum pension in Slovenia. The trend is that it will be lower than what is perceived as the threshold of poverty, and the same is true of the minimum wage and, as a result, the adjustment of all wage classes in companies. These are measures that show that by 2020 the burden of this decree will be on people in particular. However, since this document will also go to Brussels, it should be made more clear whether the actual depth of the bank hole is the same as it was estimated in 2013, as the European Commission and the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund know that the assessment of economic growth in Slovenia was wrong, a very drastic decline in economic growth has been envisaged, and in fact economic growth has been recorded all the time. The question is also the question to which this decree does not answer, how much will we actually acquire and return to the budget by the year 2022? This assessment should be made much clearer as the end of the bad bank is foreseen in 2022 and this decree will apply until 2020. If we meet in Slovenia that we want to respect the commitments made to Brussels in a consistent manner, this must not in any way mean that we must not doubt these commitments that have been made. This is one of those which should certainly be taken more seriously within the framework of this decree as well as the national reform programme as well as the stability programme. Only through a more in-depth analysis of all these developments would surely be a more realistic picture of this decree than of public spending. The fact is that we will only be able to succeed in the future in a way that exports in Slovenia will continue to grow, this is a key factor in Slovenia for successful economic growth, and thus the growth of gross domestic product. The fact is that public consumption or domestic consumption is also one of those that has a strong impact on economic growth, so raising the standard of human beings will have to be a question that may require a change by 2020. Last but not least, investments and drawing on European funds. If we do not succeed in drawing on European funds, then the situation will continue to be worrying. In particular, we expect the Social Democrats to accelerate all procedures for more efficient use of European funds, resulting in a more efficient implementation of investments and thus an increase in economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the United Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! From the outset, I can say that Members of the United Left will vote against the decision implementing the fiscal rule. The first thing I have to point out is the functioning of the fiscal world. As is known, this decree is the first document on which the newly appointed Fiscal Council has given its opinion. This first opinion shows that the coalition has done itself a bear service by appointing the fiscal world. As we know, the coalition in its previous SDS session elected new constitutional judges and appointed the Fiscal Council. In the Constitutional Court, it strengthened that line of constitutional judges who oppose the equality of same-sex couples or block the prosecution of politicians suspected of corruption, and one would expect the coalition to at least reduce neoliberal trends in the Fiscal Council. But it happened the other way around. The opinion of the Fiscal Council is basically negative. The Fiscal Council has put itself in the position of the European Commission, which requires Slovenia to accelerate savings. And this is what happened now that the government, at least in part, opposed the Brussels dictatorship and rejected the missing Brussels methodology, which shows overheating the Slovenian economy in 2016, but did not show it in 2007. So now that the government has taken a stand against the nonsense of the Brussels dictatorship, the Fiscal Council has put itself on the side of the European Commission. We have new evidence before us of how harmful the human resources policy of this coalition is. She didn't balance anything; in fact, she bent these two important organs even more to the right. However, the other important information contained in this Decision is indeed encouraging. The government decreed that the state budget could spend 9.7 billion euros in 2019 instead of 9.4 billion. The government has therefore found that in 2019 we can spend more than 281 million euros last year without violating the fiscal rule or European rules. In other words, it follows from the decree that Slovenia can provide the missing EUR 200 million of capital for the Divač-Koper route on its own without having to make an additional commitment. Therefore, the EUR 200 million now sought by Hungary for investment in the second indent can be provided by the State without having to make any additional commitment or in breach of European rules. The economic situation, and this is the reason, is only significantly better than indicated in February 2015 when the Government decided that the second track should be built with the participation of foreign capital. And the economic situation is also significantly better than it showed last autumn when the coalition adopted the current decision to draw up the budgets of the state sector. Therefore, this decree proves that Slovenia can provide capital for the second indent without additional indebtedness and without violating European rules. In this way, Slovenia can avoid the demands of Hungary for tied operations. In this way, we can prevent attempts to privatise Port Koper or grant concessions in the port of Kore. And in this way, we can avoid an absurd situation in order for our state-owned companies to subsidise a foreign country with new taxes. In summary, last July the Minister of Restoration answered the question of the journalist Mladina, who said why is the country deciding on a more expensive way to build a second track?, he replied, quote, “just because we don’t have money”. This decree proves that it doesn't hold. We have enough money to build a new route in a way that is proven to be the cheapest in the long term and that will maintain the key infrastructure in Slovenian management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Madam Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! The budgeting framework decision is first considered in compliance with the legal regime requiring the establishment of a fiscal council. It took a long time for the government of Dr. Mira Cerar to finally succeed with the proposal to form the Fiscal Council. As we discussed last year's budget framework decision, in Nova Slovenija we drew attention to the issue of structural deficit. In its assessment of the Fiscal Council of this draft framework for the preparation of budgets, the Fiscal Council has also explicitly pointed out that the decree provides for too little structural effort. However, structural reforms are needed to increase structural efforts. In the last year, the government has not carried out a single mention of a valuable reform, and the mandate is slowly approaching its end. It all points out that, in terms of serious economic development, this government presented itself as just another missed opportunity and term of office as a lost three or four years. Budget revenues have been increasing mainly due to our exporters in recent years, but the Government cannot take advantage of these opportunities to reduce the structural deficit, which would be a guarantee for the development and stability of Slovenia in the future. The revenue in the budget has increased by around €800 million since 2013. However, the overall increase in the ruling coalition spends every year on public spending and payment of interest. The interest rate shall be more than 10 % of the total budget expenditure at the annual level. Public debt amounts to about €32 billion, which is more than 83% of gross domestic product. In the first half of this government’s mandate, the number of public servants increased by about 4 000. Dramatic data. Even though the real sector has borne the greatest burden of the economic crisis, the overall increase in the volume of the budget is devoted to the public sector, which is nicely said to be unreasonable. Christian Democrats propose that we use the increase in budget flows instead of public spending to reform the tax burden and improve the business environment, which is essential for the long-term development of Slovenia. Slovenian demographic trends are extremely worrying. Slovenian society is a society within the EU that is the fastest to age, which of course means and will cause and cause a great deal of fiscal risk. In Slovenia, 10,000 children are born every year, but the government rather spends money on recapitalisation of the Slovenian State Holding and Bank Claims Management Society, as well as settling various and diverse unions. Entrepreneurs are properly filled with budget bags and, in return, they are not waiting for any and indeed no tax measure in terms of decommissioning. Even the other way around. The government even increased the corporate income tax last year. Modernisation of the Slovenian economic environment is essential to reduce the structural deficit, which is clearly a stalemate of nuts for the existing government. We offer our economic programme to this government, which consists of three pillars that are very simple and very easily understood: lower taxes, simple procedures, an open economy. In New Slovenia, the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budgets for 2018-2020 will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! Although it has already been stressed today, allow me to point out for myself the importance of today's adoption of the Proposal for a Decision on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the country's sector, which we have adopted for the first time in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the implementing law on the fiscal rule. I am pleased that the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, however, has made the right decision and has waited for the Government's written response to the Fiscal Council. Thus, including today's adoption, we will carry out the procedure as provided for by the law itself. So today, one meeting after the appointment of the members of the Fiscal Council is already under consideration with their opinion, which unfortunately is not exactly what the government or the minister would have wanted, namely the reduction of the structural deficit, which does not go down on the right assumptions, as well as the domestic and external risks, which is also highlighted by Umar in addition to the Fiscal Council. At least we can conclude under the line that it is not only the European Commission that says structural reforms are necessary. Unfortunately, there is a high probability that there will be no major reforms in this mandate. Nevertheless, we feel that it is right to talk about it and that we are aware of it. The two key documents the Government is submitting to the European Commission's assessment of the Stability Programme, which tells us what we have done, and the National Reform Programme, which predicts what else we are going to do, show an interesting picture. In the Stability Programme, the Government notes that the actions of the two previous governments have been properly implemented and have been effective. However, the National Reform Programme should provide some answers to the challenges ahead. What is of particular concern to us is that the key priorities imposed by the Government are not being implemented, but are being postponed to the next period, whether they are restructuring tax burdens, taxation of immovable property or long-term care and health care as a whole. Let us not forget that an extremely large number of public institutions have business debt. We even have those who don't pay their employees any contributions. All of this and more open cases, which, as I have already mentioned, have a strong impact on the structural deficit. We are pleased, however, that the Government has found sufficient reserves and that, in addition to coordinating pensions for all pensioners who have retired under full conditions, it will provide a pension of at least EUR 500. Both in our parliamentary group and in the Alliance, we have drawn attention to the situation of pensioners who have retired under previous rules or who continue to retire in this year after a transitional period. Their position would be if they persisted in the requirement to meet two conditions, 40 years of working age and age, more than just the same. We are therefore pleased that the Government has found sufficient resources to grant these pensioners the right to a pension which is not less than EUR 500. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. The first one has the word "magic." Saša Jazbec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, then prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I would like to respond to a few of the references in these introductory presentations. It is true that we are today adopting regulations for 2018, 2019 and 2020, but it is also true that the figures that are the basis for all the calculations on which we make these decisions are changing. Today, as the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has pointed out, an audit of the deficit published by the Statistical Office has been published. Thus, the deficit in 2015, which was published two weeks ago at 2.6% of gross domestic product, has now been corrected to 2.9. And last year's deficit, which is expected to amount to 1.5% of gross domestic product, has now been corrected to 1.8%. The adjustments are due to the incorrect application of the interest adjustments on foreign exchange swaps, which protected the Republic of Slovenia against exchange risk when committed in the dollar market. The Eurostat methodology requires interest to be recorded as if there was no replacement and that in the event of a euro depreciation that occurred when we have a fixed rate and pay coupons after that rate, the methodology requires that the market rate be taken into account on the day of the coupon payment. As the dollar against the euro grew during this period, the statistical method now shows us a different picture than it was two weeks ago. Specifically, this now means that the structural effort in 2016 will be slightly lower, and since we will insist on the road map, it is said that the numbers will now not change further, this means that we will maintain this path and that the effort in 2017 will be slightly higher. Let me remind you, let's say it's all about pre-assessments, it's called ex ante evaluation. Let me remind you that we planned a 2.2 deficit last year and that the European Commission assessed it 2.4. Now it's a result that's no longer ex ante, but it's ex post, 1.8. I would like to point out that the road or, above all, the speed of consolidation is important. I would like to respond to the claim that we are not in conformity with the Constitution or the implementing fiscal rule law. Article 15 of the Fiscal Rule Act lays down transitional provisions, as we approach our medium-term fiscal objective, which is a net balance, and according to the methodology or rules of the European Commission, a surplus of 0.25% of GDP is required from us, i.e. during this transitional period when we approach this medium-term objective, we need to be consistent with structural effort. With regard to structural effort, however, you can agree in full or in part. With these numbers we now have, we will achieve partial compliance in terms of structural effort, without touching the other two criteria. This rule is long and expanded benchmark, it's a rule of expenditure. Therefore, the Government considers that we are partially in line with the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act. As regards what is included in the existing framework in accordance with the rules of enhanced fiscal management, we can plan expenditure where legislation is prepared to such an extent that expenditure dynamics are sufficiently defined, in this context the planned changes in the health system take into account that part which does not require a major systemic change, but only the reallocation of expenditure between the cash registers, is a gradual transfer of non-health services from healthcare to the national budget. As already explained in the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the State budget in 2019 and 2020, unlike other cash registers and from the general balance of the sector, is showing a deficit precisely on the basis of the fact that it will provide additional transfers to the pension fund in order to carry out indexations in accordance with system law and for the health treasury due to the already mentioned transfer of non-health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Urška Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I look forward to every good statistical analysis, predictions, views back and ex ante or ex post. So much more so when we have some good results, we ask the question of how good those results would be if the government did something. We all boast, especially the ruling boast that we have economic growth. Who's going to hand out medals, gold medals to economists? Dr. Miro Cerar or who? But just the Chamber of Commerce? Or the Chamber of Commerce and Industry? If, now that we have a good climate when the economy is on the run, it is closely linked to our external markets, because the exporters are those towing horses, if we were to add a catalyst here at least a little bit, an accelerator, today would have 7% economic growth. It can probably be very easy to calculate. But there's still a recommendation from the Fiscal Council. Thank God we finally have him. Who's in charge here now? Or fiscal world or government? Or we will now have what the Fiscal world has, and we will say, "in the uh write me the Fiscal World, whatever you write, you're wrong, we'll overtake all your recommendations." The fiscal world is in these few days, which works, and thank God that it works, has worked hard and wrote: "In view of the favourable development of the macroeconomic situation and given the risks that are always present, the Fiscal Council recommends to the Government the appropriate definition of measures to achieve the objectives presented in the programme and an increase in fiscal effort of 0.2% of GDP for 2017 to achieve the average fiscal effort to reduce the structural balance in 2016 and 2017 at 0.6% of GDP." That's the fiscal world. Yes, it is true that the problem is that many times we mix the nominal budget deficit with the structural deficit. Under the Stability Programme, the Ministry of Finance should gradually reduce the structural deficit – what is it to repeat – the structural deficit is a budgetary deficit adapted to the estimated effects of the economic cycle. And this structural deficit under the fiscal rule can be up to 0.5% of GDP. The economic cycle, we probably also know whether the economic cycle is the movement of economic activity during the period of growth, i.e. expansion, and the period of stagnation or contraction. So there are periods in which the economy is growing and there are periods in which it is shrinking. And we're looking at when we figure out the structural deficit, the whole economic cycle. Structural deficit, I stress, is too large and is increasing in Slovenia. The secretary of state just said it's a little different. But somehow I find it difficult to understand that when some data, in particular the structural deficit, shows us poorly, then we say, oh, the European methodology is not good and we already see Minister Marble running to his colleague Schäublu, they sit down and think about how to change this methodology. And Minister Marble comes home and says, uh, you know, it's complicated, it's rocket science, rocket science. I don't know if that's true. Of course, maybe to explain a little to people, look, we're good, but you don't understand what this is all about. We understand very well, and I know, and I am pleased that on the European Council in Brussels on 9 and 10 March, on 9 and 10 March, the European Council held a meeting, where the leaders also spoke about economic issues which I am most interested in besides foreign policy. European leaders discussed economic issues in the presence of the President of the ECB, Mr Draghi, and took note of economic developments in the EU, which are very encouraging both in terms of growth and unemployment. There are risks, there are risks that the favourable circumstances, which have contributed significantly to this, will change to growth. Among other things, it is realistic to expect an increase in the current low interest rates, which could burden heavily indebted countries, i.e. Slovenia. Or someone's thinking about it.? Since there is no longer a threat of deflation, the need for emergency action by the ECB is reduced. Risks in banking systems are significant due to high poor claims and geopolitical risks. Does this ring a bell? We're done. The recommendation is also very important for Slovenia, as without accelerated debt reduction in these favourable conditions the issue will only deteriorate further [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs Urska Ban has the floor to prepare the mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go, Mrs. Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you so much for the word. First of all, I thank the Secretary of State, who has already given some key answers, which I hope are also satisfactory in further discussions. Perhaps, first of all, only this spring part of budgetary planning. We have heard several times already today, on the basis of which data is being prepared by the decree itself and thus also by the stability programme of the National Reform Programme. According to the data published by the Office for Macroanalysis and Development, the Statistical Office, Apes at the end of March or in early April. The fact is that the deadlines for hearing the decree and then also for intervention under the adopted Decision of the Stability Programme to the European Commission, this deadline is April 30, and the deadlines for hearing in the National Assembly are laid down by the Law on Fiscal Rule, which we adopted in the National Assembly. The Fiscal Rule Act provides that the National Assembly must, within certain deadlines, adopt the proposal for a framework within 5 days before the Government of the Stability Programme has to forward to the European Commission further procedures set out in the framework of the European Semester. It is said that data are available in early April and 25 April that the National Assembly should already decide on two key objectives – the target balance and the maximum possible expenditure for both the state sector and individual public finances. But as we have already heard today, in the midst of this forecast, these data, which are somehow the starting point, are also changing. Today, we have said that a deficit audit was published today, which changes the deficit rate achieved in 2016 and 2015. This will then also be in the final stability programmes, in these projections, which are written down and I believe are also taken into account. So that these short deadlines cannot be avoided under the Fiscal Rule Act. The fiscal world really has two or three days to give an opinion. The National Assembly must then – and therefore this complication which we had on the Committee on Finance, in this case by 13 April at the latest, when the meeting of the National Assembly is convened, which runs from 20 to 26 April, this decree has already been adopted, as it provides for the Fiscal Rule Act. I still have some chance here that this timeline, we have already talked about, we are trying to make it a little more friendly to give ourselves in the National Assembly and the Fiscal Council a little bit more time with the law that we are still missing in this context, if I call it public finance management, this is the Law on Public Finance, where it will have to be a key emphasis on this medium-term planning, to try to bring these hands, as far as possible, in accordance with the Fiscal Rules and deadlines Act set out in the framework of the European Semester, in particular to harmonise this timeline. As far as the content of the decree is concerned, I have already practically stated in the position of the Group of Members what our position is on the objectives set out for both the State sector and for all public cash financing. Here I would stress that our final objective of consolidating public finances is not to have a budget deficit below 3% of GDP, we see from the data presented today that we have achieved this, but our final objective is to be in line with the medium-term fiscal framework. Our fiscal rule requires a structurally balanced budget, i.e. structural balance 0. We've heard that before today. While the European rules are slightly stricter and require a surplus of 0.5% of GDP, this is what we intend to achieve in 2020. We are now in this transitional period and I think that compliance with these Stability Pact rules has also been assessed by the Fiscal Council. I respect their assessment, I believe - as has been said today and also on the Committee by the Minister - that the Government is taking it seriously too, and that the measures prepared under the Development Programme Plan and the Stability Programme go in this direction so that this fiscal effort is actually achieved. As we have said, short-term measures have been particularly exposed to active public debt management, long-term measures – health reform, long-term care, demographic fund and measures to strengthen potential growth, further remove administrative barriers, the labour market and so on. As far as this is concerned, as the Secretary of State has also said in her replies, I have nothing to add. In my opinion, the Government's efforts are focused on measures that bring long-term public financial stability. This path, which in some ways is also the path of gradual fiscal consolidation provided for by the Fiscal Rule Act, is in this direction that this medium-term objective is also achieved in 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Get Mr. Luka Moon ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u84	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In front of us is probably one of the most important documents to be adopted by the State, namely the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budgets for 2018-2020. In fact, this document tells us some way the country will go and how the budget, as one of the most important documents, will be prepared. Many comments on this document have already been made in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I will not personally support this document, but I will give the reasons below. The fact is that, in reducing the budget deficit, the country is primarily working to reduce investment, reducing investment policy. I am sure that such a path is wrong, because by reducing investment policy we are actually blocking the development of the country, blocking the development of the economy and it seems to me that the government of Mira Cerar, coalition, SMC, Social Democrats and Desus have taken the wrong path. In fact, the most funds are, unfortunately, earmarked for public sector salaries. And that's where things should be changed. Above all, I miss this investment policy to focus on infrastructure projects and, above all, on more ambitious entrepreneurship. In investment policy, I am not talking about holed development projects, infrastructure projects such as TES 6 and the second track, which we will discuss today, but mainly in the field of public infrastructure, which would ensure a better standard and a better life for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For the first time in the history of Slovenia, this framework for the preparation of sector budgets was also prepared by the State on the basis of the opinion of the Fiscal Council. But here I was over the way the government decided to react, disappointed. The fact is, the Fiscal Council, I'm not going to say that he made a negative or negative assessment. The Fiscal Council said that the budgetary framework was designed in accordance with the requirements of the European Union, but it is not possible to determine whether this budget is realistic. The fiscal council also lacks more concrete measures to reduce this structural deficit. However, if we only remember how the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy began its meeting when the Minister actually ignored all the opposition's warnings when the government's opinion was not prepared and the Minister even said that she would give an oral statement to the Government. However, the government has not yet defined itself to the opinion of the Fiscal Council. This is a disgrace that only Matthew Vraničar, Minister of Finance, can afford. But here I really have a feeling that he lives in a world of his own and that he can speak whatever he wants in front of Members and Members. See, I am sure that Slovenia has sufficient reserves, but that the policy implemented by this government over the last three years and probably beyond is a policy of new debt and new tax burdens, mainly on the account of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and on the account of the economy. We can monitor monthly whether the state commits itself through treasures by issuing new treasures or by taking fresh money to the market. According to the latest information that we can read in the media, we can expect the government of Mira Cerar to be responsible for this country and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for probably an additional few billion. Look, I'm sure, and I've repeatedly pointed out these reserves that I mentioned earlier, especially here in the area of tax debt. The tax debt in Slovenia is already around 15% of the annual budget revenue, more than one billion euros. This tax debt seems to be growing year after year. I know that now the Secretary of State will say that these numbers may not hold up, which I have mentioned, but this tax debt needs to be fully viewed. This means an active and inactive tax debt and, in particular, a tax debt that is written off. But here I think the government and the Ministry of Finance are the ones who are most misleading. You are very reluctant to publish these numbers in public or to inform the National Assembly how much tax debt has been written off. Still, I think we should do a lot more here. Above all, the government should take care of higher budget revenues, but not higher budget revenues at the expense of increasing taxes, but mainly through consumption and investment. Unfortunately, the government only increases this revenue in the budget with additional tax burdens, raising excise duties and other matters. In the area of expenditure, I am convinced that many things could also be done in the area of public sector salaries, they appear to have flown to the sky and that they are disproportionate to economic growth and all matters are increasing. Here I would like to stress once again, perhaps the Secretary of State could provide further clarifications as to why the Government did not follow these recommendations made by the Fiscal Council. Why do you think that these recommendations, which the Fiscal Council has written in its opinion, are not feasible or why the Government has actually ignored them? Although I believe that you have a problem with the time component by adopting this decree, the flag fell on April 25th, but you have come to the National Assembly once again as a voting machine and have not really taken these opinions into account. I would like to know whether, despite this, in the nouns, the ignorant you gave to the Fiscal Council, or, nevertheless, you may be thinking that through such and different procedures, these recommendations will be followed up, in particular in the period 2018-2020. I am sure that this budget, as the Fiscal Council has written down, is not realistic, and this has also been seen from this audit, which was carried out and data came on the plan yesterday or today. There's a lot of numbers down here. Once again, I do not believe these figures prepared by the government of Mira Cerar, and above all, the expenditure side needs to be plagued. We know what happened at the end of 2016, when the government finds 200 million to recapitalise the Slovenian State Holding to find 50 million to recapitalise the Bank's Claims Management Company, the so-called bad bank, to force a second track project on the nose without some financial structure. The fact is that your mandate is running out, but given your policy and the stability of public finances, I fear that you will lead the country or public finances to the fact that when the next government comes, the next government will have to re-adopt the kind of ZUJF due to all the mistakes made by the government of Mira Cerar or the coalition of the Modern Centre Party, the Social Democrats and Desus.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mr. Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you. We have before us a document setting out for the next three years the scope of the social state and development policy for the whole country. I'll start by commending the government. In the United Left, we support efforts to show the European Commission the wrongness and wrongness of its methodology, which, as I said in my previous position, did not show any signs of overheating for the Slovenian economy in 2007, when this was clearly overheated, but shows them for 2016 when there is no sign of overheating. If I can only briefly restore what he showed in Dr. Bole's comparative study. Otherwise, it shows that in 2007 GDP growth was 7%, in 2016 was 2.5%, the current balance of payments account at the time showed 1.4 billion deficits, now showing 2.7 billion surpluses, then unemployment was 4.9%, now 8.1%, so we're almost in an inverse situation relative to that time. The European Commission says the economy is overheating now, not overheating in 2007. So, as far as this is concerned, you have our full support to show that they are using the wrong methodology that is harmful to the development of this country and that is why I also said that I would start with praise. We are, of course, sorry, as I said in my view, that the government's efforts here undermine the fiscal world. At our meeting with the Minister, when she was in our visiting group, we also made it clear that the Fiscal Council is not a technical body that will tell us with some pure mathematics what a country may have a deficit, but it is, after all, a political body that considers how to apply a fiscal rule is within what you have written in the Constitution. In the United Left, we opposed the entry of the fiscal rule and we also offered signatures, the votes of our Members, to erase the fiscal rule. But anyway, now that we have a fiscal rule, there's some sort of manoeuvre. At the first task he had, the fiscal council had shown that he would read the fiscal rule in the narrowest liberal way and that, in fact, where the government had played the most positive role, that is, in proving the European Commission's error, he would undermine the government's position and put himself in line for the wrong methodological approach of the European Commission, which is detrimental to the development of this country. The third point I would like to point out is that we do not agree with the rate of savings you have set ourselves. If we look only at the 2018 plan, according to the old proposal, according to the old decree, the country's target balance as a percentage of GDP for 2018 -1%, it is now only -0.2%. Here I agree with the predecessor, Mr Pogačnik, who pointed out that the country is blocking investment policy, but our answers are of course different. If Mr Pogačnik says that the biggest wage problem is in the public sector, I think the biggest problem is the excessive pace of savings. Here within this 0.8% of the saved money is lost hundreds of millions that could be spent on productive investments. Congregations that complain and actually do not have much room for investment are being fed, and the country is being fed. Yesterday, scientists protested the lack of resources for development and research. And these are all the resources that could go towards this productive spending, but the government has decided by this decision that it would rather spend money on debt repayment, where we have always warned that at European level we should clearly demand that the debts that have accumulated, especially as the effect of the euro area, which is unfortunately poorly designed, should also be a European problem and be resolved at European level, but not that we are now straining the belts ourselves, denying the resources of science, denying the resources of the municipalities, giving up the means of development so that we can pay off the debts that are largely the result of poor operation and the poorly conceived euro area. The fourth point I would like to draw attention to is the funds for a health check. On the one hand, the government says that most of the additional public spending will be realized in the pension and health bills, but the 2019 plan shows that the government does not take seriously the abolition of supplementary health insurance, as there are no visible funds in the 2019 health treasury, I do not think that currently around 445 million, which are collected under the heading of supplementary health insurance, are provided for in the health treasury. We drew attention to this on the committee and received the government's response that these funds were not foreseen because the legislation has not yet been adopted. But I'm here now to point out some other inconsistence. On the one hand, you say this, and on the other hand you say that most of this surplus, to which we point, will be spent in the health treasury in 2019 281 million euros. That is to say, even though this legislation has not yet been adopted, you are now taking into account the new law's expenditure and you are not taking into account the revenue due to the same law in this health treasury. So I'd like to ask the Ministry here for an additional explanation. The last thing is the second track. In the United Left, we have been alerting the problem of the second track construction for several reasons for several months. Of course, the corruption risks that the Anti-Corruption Commission also points out, the second is Hungary's involvement in the project and the third, the most problematic, is that Hungary, due to its miserable capital injection, will be talking about 200 million euros out of a billion as much as it is supposed to cost an investment without interest, denying the most likely stakes in 2TKK and granting concessions both on Slovenian railways and in Luka Koper. For 200 million euros. I would like to point out here that it is clear from this decree that the Government does not have to involve Hungary in this project, because in 2019 the eligible budget expenditure will be increased by EUR 281 million without violating European rules without further debt. So if we invest 200 million euros in the second round, we still have 81 million euros left for other investments, or vice versa, if we decide to slightly reduce ambitions after savings and after the rate of repayment, we can get even more funds here for municipalities, development, science, research, investment. The United Left's general appeal is to slow down the pace of savings and to use economic conjuncture to justify, as Urška Ban said in her opening presentation, economic growth is no longer based solely on exports, but to base it on domestic consumption and, above all, on domestic prosperity. In order to apply what the government has eventually promised, the effects of economic growth will begin to be seen as the welfare of the population of this country. Unfortunately, we are assessing that the current decree does not allow this and that is why we will not support it unless we receive different signals from the Ministry and Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone! One of the important shortcomings of such a fiscal rule and, as a result, of the ruling that we are considering today is that it is actually interfering only with the reduction of public expenditure. On the other hand, we have a lot of processes to manage the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, and these processes are carried out practically without any restrictions. So, on the one hand, we are severely restricting public use and we say that, even by 2020, we must only allow it with sustainability and, on the other hand, property is being sold without any restrictions. If only at the New Bank of Credit Maribor had taken into account that the limit was prescribed at least the book value of this bank, it would not have been sold for 250 million but some more than 600 million euros. We get about €400 million in there right away. But this decree does not provide for these limitations either. And that's a mistake that didn't sneak into our system for no reason. All of this is due to the fact that Slovenia, in the shortest possible period of time, does not Slovenia, but especially people, citizens and citizens, lose the assets created through generations. Here I would stress once again the fact that it is not really aware that it is not so-called state property, but that it is the private private property of all citizens and citizens. So any such process as the NKBM has actually stolen money from citizens and citizens. And this decree doesn't talk about it. The second impact observed throughout this period is a large outflow of resources to tax havens. The estimate is that there are already EUR 75 billion in tax havens in Slovenia. If we are talking about having to have balanced public finances or why my proposal, which I have already made several times within coalition negotiations, has not been taken into account, to draw up a law to tax all financial transactions in tax havens with at least a 25% tax obligation. This would significantly increase the inflows to the state budget, and certainly reduce the measures we are discussing in this decree. But, of course, this decree does not provide for these measures again. The next thing I want to point out is, in fact, a bad bank and the functioning of a bad bank. The Finance Committee has already agreed that the Government must carry out an audit in a bad bank on the transfer of all bad claims to a bad bank and on the sale of the bad claims, under what conditions these bad claims have continued to be sold. It is generally known that claims from business banks have also been transferred to a bad bank, which companies have regularly repaid. So it was not a bad claim at all, but as such they were transferred to a bad bank, and thus many private individuals were burdened with the millions of amounts they were obliged to repay due to the loans they were hired. Until we resolve these issues, every such decree, every such procedure, which we send to Brussels, is in fact unrealistic and significantly different from what Slovenia is actually capable of servicing public debt. It is very important that Slovenia has never had, and even at this moment, has no difficulties in repaying any debt. If we also clarified what had happened to the bad bank and whether, on the basis of this audit, some bad claims had to be returned to business banks and demanded that liabilities be settled from those owners of companies that had managed to transfer this to a bad bank, this financial or bank hole would be drastically reduced at that time. These are warnings that I have been trying to put in place as part of the rehabilitation of banks all the time, and until this is resolved, we will still be artificially creating some conditions that really reduce people's standards. What we should really also seriously warn Brussels is that already 400,000 people in Slovenia are on the poverty line. This is information that must also be of concern to Brussels. Is it really the interest of the European Union to create poverty in a country where it is not necessary to create it at all, and that is why this is the case in Slovenia, because we made commitments to Brussels based on unrealistic growth prices in the assessment of the bank hole. I think that all the financiers and all those responsible, if I may say so, within the European Central Bank and also within the European Commission would certainly understand that this was a mistake. The next thing that needs to be tackled more effectively in Slovenia is, in fact, action against corruption. Look, there's a lot of discussion about Mercator right now. Today, too, the agenda on this subject was extended. But what if we happen to this black loss scenario or the threat of 30,000 jobs? This will have a drastic impact on public finances and on the content of this decree by 2020. I have already taken the initiative several times to look at these Mercator sales contracts, because these treaties also contain an anti-corruption clause. If corruption is detected in one of these procedures, then this contract becomes invalid and we immediately transfer shares from Agrokor to Slovenia and we do not need any special authorities to monitor what is supposed to happen to payment traffic and how we will protect suppliers. So a very simple process to look at or and what action was so that we can define it as corrupt and at that point Mercator's problem also begins to be solved in an effective way. Many such simple measures, which are certainly understood by all people, obviously do not come into force, because it is of interest that Slovenia continues to be exhausted and that some seemingly poor situation continues to persist and, above all, also interferes with the social situation of people and, finally, we weaken our health system, we weaken our school system. It is unusual and completely unnecessary for even scientists, researchers, to point out the problem that we do not provide them with sufficient resources. Without the development of science, this decree will never reach the green branch or we will never reach the green branch with public finances. If we do not see this, then this is a very serious problem in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u89	Mrs Marija Antonija Kovacič has the floor to prepare Mrs Maruša Škopac and Dr Ange Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting to the distinguished representatives of the government and a nice greeting to everyone else! In my contribution, I will just focus on the pension issue and how I see within the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the country's 2018-2020 progress in the pension fund. In our efforts to stop the multi-annual fall in pensions and to ensure annual coordination of pensions with increases in wages and cost of living, and in the demand for regression to all pensioners, we have taken note of the proposal for a stability programme, which is part of the country's budget decision. The decree sets out the target balance and the maximum amount of expenditure for all four public cashiers. The decree is also a safeguard for the mode of gradual consolidation of public finances, which means that attention should be paid to greater fiscal efforts or to limiting spending policies. However, the government recently took note of the 2016 annual report of the PIZ. The trend in the number of pensioners has slowed down and represents a minimum growth of 0.3% over the last 26 years. This means that the pension box office will no longer be burdened so that it has an increased capacity to implement certain measures to improve the quality of life of pensioners. It is important for us to increase pensions by 2.1% in 2017 due to the reconciliation of pensions already made in February by 1.15% and in line with the projected increase in the number of pensioners. The decision to pay the annual allowance for all pensioners also has an additional impact on growth. For 2018, coordination of pensions is envisaged in line with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which is 60 % of the average wage and 40 % of the inflation, which is estimated at 2.7 %. At the same time, a full annual allowance is foreseen, i.e. a total increase of 4,4 % in pension costs. For 2017 and 2018 we will also achieve the provision of a minimum pension for pensioners with a full pension of EUR 500 per month. We will continue to address the negative effects of intervention measures to improve the material situation of pensioners in line with the proposal for the maximum possible level of expenditure on pension funds. The priority is still to enforce the law on the demographic reserve fund so that the funds can be accumulated as soon as possible. The decree means easier and more transparent medium-term planning of the budgetary policy of the country, it also allows changes in the light of the current situation, and we will therefore support the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u91	Mrs Marusha Škopac has the floor to prepare Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go, Mrs. Skopac.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Gross social product has been growing for several consecutive years. In 2014 and 2015, growth was 2.9%, partly due to the intensive use of European funds from the previous perspective, as we know that the deadline for absorption was the end of 2015. This has contributed significantly to greater economic growth. Last year, when there were no European funds, the economic growth was 2.5%. This year's expected growth is 3.6%. It will also make an important contribution to increasing economic growth by increasing the dynamics of state investment, namely key investment in transport and infrastructure, in public roads, in rail infrastructure and in sustainable mobility. We all know that there has been insufficient investment in state roads for several years and that some are in very poor condition, so we all look forward to an increase in final funds for transport infrastructure. Investments will also take place in the field of energy, which will continue to build hydropower plants on the lower Sava, and will also create a production zone for a larger foreign investment that was made during the government of Mir Cerar. For investments in the 2017 budget, €843 million is allocated and €899 million in 2018, an increase of 19.4% this year compared to last year and an additional 6.7% in 2018. Economic growth has also been largely a result of the export economy and extremely good companies operating mainly in the international environment in recent years. According to the data of Umar, household consumption is also increasing, which is a very important information, as it means that, at last, households also feel economic growth and trust in economic growth, they are not saving as much as they used to, and are therefore prepared to boost their consumption. Thus, economic growth will now be felt by those companies that are more focused on the domestic market and depend on the consumption of the domestic population. It is also important that Umar predicts economic growth in the future, which is expected to calm down and stop at a moderate 2.5% in the medium term. This is an economic growth that does not indicate overheating, which shows appropriate and appropriate economic growth. What needs to be said is that employment is increasing by a rate of 2% last year. What is very important or very noticeable is that in June 2016 unemployment fell for the first time in six years below the limit of 100,000 unemployed people. Youth employment is particularly encouraging. In 2014 and 2015, as many as 49 thousand 181 unemployed young people were employed. More importantly, in recent times young people who have been registered at the Employment Institute have increased their share of those who find employment within four months of their application to the Employment Service. In the Government of Mira Cerar, we always stress that health care is one of our central points to which we pay special attention. The proposed decree, which they are discussing today, also increases the funds for health bills, from the planned 2 billion 573 million to 2 billion 685 million this year. It is also important that the level of expenditure planned for health is increased in the coming years, as indicated in 2018, 2019 and 2020. The increase is 5.2% in 2018 relative to 2017 and then this growth is still 4.1% and 4.85% each year. By increasing the level of funds for the health treasury, we are following the targets and increasing the funds in the cash register from which it has been continuously taken over the past years. At its meeting on 6 April, the government approved a special government project to shorten waiting periods and improve the quality of the health register. For this project, it has earmarked €36 million. It is also important to point out that it has been agreed that funding for trainees, specialists and Terciara will be transferred gradually from the health treasury to the state budget, to which it belongs and from which it has been transferred to the health treasury in the past. This is an additional measure which will provide for the health allowance to which we pay the insured and is intended for the payment of health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u93	We've got two more interviewers reported. First of all, Dr. Ange Logar has the word to prepare the mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go, Dr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you, Chairman. Ms Jazbec, Madam Secretary of State, was the head of the budget or the section of the budget before she became Secretary of State. It's probably her baby, if I may put it that way. But now I'm reading that you haven't done your homework. That you didn't do what you were paid to do, which is what taxpayers pay you for. If the Fiscal Council, which we have finally confirmed after a difficult effort, is in the summary of the assessment that the stability programme and the decree provide for too little structural effort in relation to the adopted rules of the European Union and that the measures to achieve such an effort are not sufficiently defined in this proposal, it means that we are rightly asking why taxpayers are paying you. If we have adopted some legal framework under which we operate, if we have adopted a body that assesses the implementation of this implementation on the basis of a common framework, and then this body finds that you have not done these tasks, it is in fact a clearly expressed non-trust of your work, in fact your past work, which was then apparently upgraded by the fact that you have become a secretary of state. The European Union is based on the rule of law. It's a fundamental principle, a fundamental value. If a government led by a constitutional lawyer has, in fact, begun to adopt laws quickly, ignoring this general principle of rule of law, they are trying to circumvent it, we can find that governance with this country has gone to a dead end. That is also true, your answers to the fiscal council's statements, which I will also present below. Earlier, colleague Škopcheva concluded somehow in the sense that the indicators are so beautiful, oh and oh, we all feel it in our wallets, showing that confidence in the economy has increased. But see, now we have the largest coalition party on one side, which says that this is clear evidence that confidence in the economy has increased, and here I have an official document of the Fiscal Council, where it says, “the draft programme is set aside from the structural deficit rules and thus does not provide an adequate space.” Furthermore, "this can reduce confidence in the soundness of public finances and adversely affect the state's position on financial markets." Who do you believe now? A fiscal council that says that this draft decree undermines confidence, or coalition Members who say that trust is growing. We have already learned from the President of the Government that he has completely drifted away from reality. Now I don't know if we're going to start to see this in the Ministry of Finance and with the coalition MPs. See, Members are the electorates of the people and are the most direct link with the electorates, so in this respect at least the Members are expected to remain faithful to their constituents and to what they say and breathe the field. I would like to know, Madam Secretary of State, how you handle a possible conflict of interest at the Ministry of Finance. Look, it's no secret that you're the husband of the CEO of the Sava Re para-state company. You recently completed a public debate a week ago on the law on the filing of lawsuits for the deletion of subordinated bonds. Sava Re is suing the state bank, among other things. An action that will ultimately, in the end, be successful, cost taxpayers. Someone's defending state silver, state finances, and her husband's suing state finances. We are now in a field where we can talk about a conflict of interest or at least a potential conflict of interest, unless you two talk about it. Then let's move on. This law, when the public debate was held, was also subject to a number of comments by the reinsurance company Sava Re on the proposal of this law. Will you get out of the argument or decide on the amendments or amendments to this law? Are you going to get expelled or are you going to be actively involved in preparing this? We have another field of potential conflict of interest. Not to mention the third field where the current minister was preparing the law, which led to annihilation in the first place. Coalition Members, don't get too excited. There's only two or four of you, or how many of you, you don't get too excited. [[advertising from the hall]] Is the secretary going to get expelled? It is also my question whether the proposal for this law has been made by the Minister of Justice. In fact, we know what was the response of the judiciary, the judicial branches of the authorities on the proposal of this law, so that the submission of these individual claims of compensation will sink the Slovenian judiciary. Which doesn't work like that. Colleague Vervega, do not become overly upset, this has an inherent and enormous impact on the budget and also on the budget in 2018, 2019, 2020, when you will no longer be in power when you may not be sitting in this hall, but for taxpayers. And for you as a taxpayer, this will have an extraordinary impact. Therefore, my next question: is this included in this context? The potential damage that may result from the removal of bonds, I do not know, NLB, NKBM there, up to EUR 600 million, not to mention the additional costs for the courts due to overload with these litigation. Is this included in this context? Whether the answer to this is as simple as you give it in response to the opinion of the Fiscal Council, where, inter alia, you write down, it has had to be read twice that, given that there is still a period of transition in the application of the fiscal rule, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided already in 2015 to follow its fiscal rule. We have adopted a fiscal rule with two-thirds in this House, the leadership of the Fiscal Council with a two-thirds majority in this National Assembly. The government, led by a constitutional lawyer, decided to follow its fiscal rule. The constitutional lawyer's fiscal rule. This strange understanding of the rule of law of this government, that it is all-encompassing, in addition to lex Mercator, the second track, the urgency of the process is pointed out by another paragraph to the response of the Fiscal Council. When you say that it is true that the effort is little too small, but that it will be, because it will be, because it is so good and because everything is growing and it is okay and the data will be even better, because Umar has better forecasted than the European Commission and then there is another different forecast, which is even better, you write that "there is no need to make such fiscal effort, because it also allows us to gradually achieve the public financial goals in a way that we are partially in line with EU rules." Look, we are partially in line with EU rules. The constitutional lawyer at the Government is burning that it is only right for us to be partially in line with the rules of the European Union. Can you imagine? I'm not, I'm sorry, I'm not. The fiscal world says that the state, the government, has not done its job, its homework. The government admits that it has not done so, but is satisfied that it is at least partially in line with EU rules. And no one gets upset, and Verveg's colleague doesn't jump to the ceiling because she only partially respects Shergan, I apologize, I apologize. [[…]] Look, next term, if you come in, I'll remember. And see how the Government justifies these positive figures, on which it is based that there is not enough effort, but the general economic circumstances are so favourable that this will still be realized and that we will succeed until Mira Cerar is no longer in power, to make this fiscal effort, by concluding that this is the result of past reforms – the government of Mira Cerar is in power for three years – and then in the section Quality of public finances and the impact of structural reforms of this past reform will also be listed. First of all, it says that sustained and gradual fiscal consolidation has also had an important impact on strengthening confidence in the economy. Remember, many of you jumped to the ceiling from excitement and dismay when the Janševa government adopted the Public Finance Balance Act in 2012. Some of them sent him to the Constitutional Court. He was a demon of all demons. Now the Ministry of Finance says that one of the most important reasons for the creation of such conditions, which was previously praised by colleague Škopčev, was the Law on Public Finance Balancing. It is unusual for some to change their views when they come to power. And then the next reform – pension reform. When was the pension reform adopted? In 2012, under Prime Minister Janša's rule. Next, the next, which has a favourable impact on macroeconomic indicators, is labour market reform. When was labour market reform adopted? In 2012, under Prime Minister Janša's rule. And the third reform, the so-called reform of student work, which was adopted in April 2014, was the government of Alenka Bratušek. See, after three years, the government of Mira Cerar and the Ministry of Finance say it will not make the required fiscal effort, because the macroeconomic situation is so good for the actions that have been taken in the past. Then what have you been doing for three years? In three years without adopting any reforms, this is all you have managed to partially comply with EU regulation. This is the greatest success of the three-year reign of Mir Cerar. I wonder whether, or rather, if the words of the President of the National Assembly of Mr Brglez that the SMC will be in power for three terms, i.e. 12 years, will they be realized, or will you, even then, in preparing, I don't know, six years of the indicative three-year budget, continue to boast only of these three reforms from 2012 and 2013? I'm afraid so, yes. Because nothing moves under this government in the case of structural reforms, laws are adopted which, for the first time, are in conflict with common sense, and for the second time are also contrary to the acquis of the European Union. However, the Government of the Ministry of Finance has not carried out its tasks in this regard, the body proposed by the Ministry of Finance, the staff composition, has confirmed this, so it has confirmed the constitutional category, but the Ministry of Finance and the Government, with such a framework, comes before the National Assembly. That's why I'm going back to that first question. Dear Secretary of State, have you justified the cost of the salary or costs paid by taxpayers to prepare such documents? If I were to judge, the Fiscal Council, I would say no, judging by the urgency of this framework budget, when, without the Government's position, you literally raped the Finance Committee to adopt this draft proposal, it would be my very credible answer not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u95	The sixth debater in this regular part. I give the word "magic." Andrew Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have already said in the introductory position that this deferral is contrary to the fundamental acts in force in Slovenia. Otherwise, my assessment is that it is contrary to the Fiscal Rule Act, both with European documents and, consequently, with the Constitution. What exactly is this assessment based on? It is based on the opinion of the Fiscal Council and is also based on estimates that too little structural effort has been made to ensure that Slovenia actually has what the legislation provides and what the Constitution has adopted. If we are talking about the measures the Government has imposed, which I will talk about later, we must say, colleague Vatovac said these measures are in the air. I don't think those measures are even in the air. Not because there's no air, but because there's no action. Because this government does not actually have measures. However, you have made an assessment, respected secretary of state, that this decree is partly in line with the Constitution and the Fiscal Rule Act, I quote, “partly in line”. I would very much like to actually highlight the word “partially compatible”. I tried to do this at this time by studying the word “conformity” in various ways. Also in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary, for example, which does not define partial compliance. I can say that this decree is partially inconsistent with the Constitution and partially consistent with it, and so on. Don't tell me that's what the European Commission said. I don't care. It's content. I don't care who said it. You said it was partially consistent. I say that it is partially consistent and that there is no partial non-conformity and partial conformity, we have only consistency or non-conformity. If we look at the word conformity and what it means, you've actually said to the seven that this is non-conformity because there is no partial consistency. As a result, what you accept or will accept today, as you have predicted, is a respected coalition, contrary to European documents, contrary to the Constitution and contrary to the Fiscal Rule Act. And this is also pointed out by the Fiscal Council when it speaks and writes that in these documents you have presented, there is simply too little fiscal effort. Finally, it also explains what structural effort should be made in 2018, 2019, even in 2017 and 2016. And please tell us once whether you follow the European Commission's methodology or not as regards the fiscal rule. Are we out? Have you told the European Commission that we are no longer doing this? Maybe it wouldn't be wrong for you to say that we won't accept this methodology. Tell Europe that you do not accept this, with all the consequences that the European Commission will say. I have no objection to this, but not here of the domestic public to convince them that Brussels has something wrong, which is, of course, possible good for the local public, for the domestic use, so to speak, and on the other hand, you probably speak differently in Brussels. Brussels, the European Commission is probably speaking differently. This story takes too long. It was initiated by Minister Maramor, followed by Minister Vraničareva, now State Secretary and not to comment on the methodology of the European Commission if you have not convinced the European Commission that this is wrong. And tell me whether it's consistent or inconsistent, because we don't have a word that's partially consistent. Nor can Europe invent a word that is partially consistent. It's a delusion, it's one illusion or it's an illusion, I don't know. And when we actually get to the ground, the situation will be different. There is also something about measures to ensure compliance, partial compliance, reduced compliance, greater compliance, minimum compliance, I do not know which. It's not like that. Consistency or reduced non-compliance, that's the right word, which is probably a fiction. Fiction because there is no health reform. It will not even take effect, but the government is referring to health reform in its response to the opinion, to the assessment of the Fiscal Council. How will health reform save public finances? I hope it saves some life more, and that it will cure any more people, but it will not save any public finances. How will pension reform and the demographic fund solve what story? Once again, there will be very high costs before it even works, and we don't know how it's going to work. So there's nothing about that either. Now, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to ask you one more question. How will investment in the second track affect all macroeconomic indicators, debt, deficits, economic growth and so on? Can you tell me on the basis of which documents you assess the impact of investment in the second indent on macroeconomic indicators? Like the government. You were either there or you should be, or the Minister of Finance was there when the Second Tier Act was passed, when investment programmes were adopted and I don't know which company, if they were received when investment programmes were adopted 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, were more optimistic, less optimistic, less pessimistic, less pessimistic. All these investment programs are supposed to exist somewhere, but we don't know where. It's not like that. How will the structure of the investment, the structure of the financing of the investment, affect public finances? Please indicate how much the country's expenditure and potential expenditure and public debt will change in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 due to the construction of the second track. Why do I ask that? Because there will be no surprise that we will have a stable economy, that we will have stable public finances, that we will know exactly how much we will have to pay for this investment and how much less money the citizens and citizens will receive from this investment. In other words, how will fiscal rules be followed in relation to the second track, how will they be taken into account, and in what amounts? If the state is going to give guarantees, guarantees, guarantees for something, then you need to know what happens to the expenditure, what happens to the debt. I think that today, when we discuss this decision, Members and Members would certainly deserve to know. And also the Slovenian public. I hope you have all the information – about the second track and also about possible annexes, non-enixes and so on. I guess we'll talk about this later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u97	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government, Mag. Saša Jazbec, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to a few points in the debate. Maybe to start with a structural deficit. The structural deficit may not be Rocket Science, but on the other hand it is not as simple as the nominal deficit that we calculate by deducting expenditure from revenue and depending on the potential GDP. We get potential GDP by assessing labour contributions and capital contributions and contributions of total factor productivity and using mathematical functions and filtering with different filters. So it is logical that the European Commission will achieve a different result for assessing potential growth than an independent institute will come or as will the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the same data. Since it all starts or ends in this structural deficit and since I am likely to return to that in my response again, I wanted to explain it. With regard to the time component and the tense timeline, thank you for the explanation, that's all true. As I have already said today, the numbers are changing, they have changed right now, so if we thought there was a nominal effort of 0.7 in 2017, the deficit is expected to fall from 1.5 to 0.8 this year, that is 0.7, then after this revision we now find that the nominal effort will decrease from 1.8 to 0.8, says one percentage point of GDP. And we have other numbers as soon as we count the structural effort. With regard to investment policy, I would like to say that the expenditure of the ESA country on investment in recent years has moved to 5% of gross domestic product, which is significantly more than the average of the European Union, where it amounts to 2.7% of GDP, and that it is logical that, following the investment summit that this country achieved in 2015, when we used the funds from the previous European perspective, from the multiannual financial framework, it is logical that in 2016 this investment activity has slowed down, but already in 2017, 2018 and beyond, we have more resources planned for investment. Tax debt at 31. This year it amounts to 1.28 billion euros. Of these, 663 million active debt, 614 million conditionally recoverable debt, both fall, while the active debt does not fall into a requalification account in a conditionally recoverable debt. With regard to the opinion of the Fiscal Council, whether we respect it or don't respect it, I wouldn't say we didn't respect it. The measures planned by the Government are recorded and described in the National Reform Programme. They are divided into three types of measures. This year's event, we are now April 2017 and are assessing what will happen to us in 2017. It's a pre-ex ante evaluation. If necessary, we will adjust the 2018 budget, this summer we will start preparing it, we will accept it in autumn. In autumn, when we also send the country's budget to the European Commission for 2018, we will have the opportunity to adapt because the Fiscal Council has requested that measures be taken at least by having an impact on 2018 and 2019. As I have already mentioned, once again, the speed of consolidation is important. Consumer confidence is important, and it is important that consolidation is such that it does not jeopardise the economic growth and well-being of the population. Mr. Moon asked if the government was serious about the abolition of supplementary health insurance. Here I would like to explain, as I have already said, that the changes in health that do not require systemic legislation are taken into account in this decision. It is agreed that in the coming years the State budget will gradually take over non-health services or activities paid so far by the ZZZS, i.e. health treasury, so that one part of the major expenditure of the state budget will be due to this, the other part, to the deficit of the state budget, due to higher payments to the pension fund for the reasons already mentioned. With regard to the health register itself, I would like to explain that the ceiling on expenditure is increasing because the simple labour market is strengthened because more employees, more employees means higher contributions to the health treasury and the health treasury on the expenditure side are clear needs, so we do not choke this cash market for unnecessary and so much as extra revenue, for so long as we can raise the expenditure side that then the balance is still nothing. So it's a flat-rate balance. With regard to what is included in the fiscal risk framework or not, the Ministry of Finance maintains a register of fiscal risks, including potential actions. Of course, we do not take these amounts into account in individual years, but, as we have said here, at the time of the adoption of the 2017 budgets, 2018 we planned slightly higher spending rights, so in 2017, 2018 we have exactly this purpose of potential actions and the judgment of reserved spending rights. And now this rhetoric about compliance, non-compliance, partial compliance and so on. This is the rhetoric of the European Commission. The European Commission has a matrix where countries are allocated depending on whether they are in good or in bad times, because then it depends on what consolidation requirements are. In view of the extent or manner in which States meet the requirements, they are classified as “fullly compliant”, it is said that they are fully consistent, in the “roadly compliant”, they appear to be partially consistent, and in those who are “at risk of a significant deviation”, they are said to be at risk of a greater deviation. In particular, I would say that if we wanted to be “fullly compliant”, it is said to be fully consistent, this would mean 0.6 structural efforts for our country at this time each year. That would be full compliance. It's full of, I think, 8 countries in the European Union. The second category, “broadly compliant”, is said to be partially consistent, means a concrete 0.3 average of structural effort in two years. In order to be exposed to the risk of a greater deviation, all that is less means is 0.2 or less fiscal effort. We have used the rhetoric of the European Commission, and we are partly in line with their rules, which means that we are in line with what we wrote in the Fiscal Rule Act for a transitional period until we reach the medium-term fiscal objective. We take into account the European Commission's methodology, but we do not agree if I return to the beginning, with their assessments of what is the potential growth in this country. Here they have significantly lower grades than we have. How will others be affected, says how it is taken into account in the decree? The law on the second track says that there will be funding when the first European funds are received, it is said that when the first European millions are acquired, so these numbers, we have calculations, we have scenarios, but these numbers because of the uncertain time dynamics in this decree we could not take into account. At the end of this intervention, however, I would like to say that we should just look at the figures on what has been happening to the balance of our country's sector in recent years. From -15% of gross domestic product in 2013, over -5.4 in 2014, we came out of the surplus deficit procedure in 2015, it is said that for the first time in years we fell below 3%, to 2.9. For last year, it is now estimated that we were at -1.8, this year we estimate that we are at -8 so that the consolidation path is the right one, is obvious and we expect it to be sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you, too. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I see there's an interest. Allow me to warn you before your application that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. [[advertising from the hall]] You have a replica. Would anyone else like to discuss it? I see you don't. Mag. Andrey Shircelj, the replica. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Look, I actually have a replica of this explanation given by the Secretary of State, Mrs Jazbec, regarding partial compliance. The European Commission has its own terminology. This terminology is used in conjunction with European regulations. In this case, probably in connection with the Stability and Growth Pact, it can be partly consistent, incompatible, full-fledged and so on. But you cannot transfer this to the legal order of Slovenia when you say that something is in accordance with the law or the constitution. You can't. Since even if something is consistent or partially consistent with the Stability Pact, it does not automatically imply that it is compatible with the Constitution. You can talk about economic terms, economic words and so on, and I can agree with that, but use this in relation to European regulations, not in relation to the Constitution. The Constitutional Court does not know partial compliance with the rules. It's consistent or incompatible. The dictionary of the Slovenian book language does not know partial conformity. Consistency or non-conformity. It's a simple matter. The invention of some new finches can be very quick to mislead the public if the person is not precise. The Czech Republic, because it is partly in line with European rules, does not mean that it is partially in conformity or that it is even in compliance with the rules in Slovenia. This is the inaccuracies, impreciseness, which may also mean some misunderstanding of those words. So that's all I'd give as a replica to be precise about these things, because they mean a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u101	Colleagues, colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else would like to discuss this point? I guess not. That is why I am also concluding a general debate on the proposal for a decree. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. The decision on the motion for a decision will be made in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, following the end of the second item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a bill on construction, management and management of the other rail line of the wildlings-copier according to their procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister Peter Gasperšič. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u102	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The second track of the Divača-Koper railway connection is our largest and internationally important infrastructure project. A project moved by the government of Dr. Mir Cerar after 20 years from a dead spot. Today we have a legal building permit, which means we're starting the construction of a second track this year. We have a clear financial structure. We have set up a project company, 2TKK, which will implement the project. In early February, we signed up for a call for EU funding from the CEF mechanism, and in July we are applying for a call for a combination of European funds with other sources of funding. We have a letter of support from Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia. In its letter of support, Hungary also expressed its intention to invest capital in project company 2TKK. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope to say that today all of us in this Chamber agree that the time has come for us to start building a second track. It is precisely the proposal for a law on the construction, management and management of the second track of the Divač-Koper railway connection, which has thus received a green light on the Infrastructure Committee and is ahead of you today, that will make it possible – to build a second track. The aim of the law is to ensure an effective financing model for the construction of the second track and its implementation as quickly as possible, thereby enhancing the competitiveness of the port, logistics and the entire Slovenian economy. The law becomes the railway infrastructure in our hands. The project will be under the supervision of the Ministry, the Government, the Court of Auditors and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Our goal is transparency. So what's the law governing? Management and management of the second track. The project company 2TKK will be awarded a concession for the construction and management of the second track for a period of 45 years. All tasks will be managed by 2TKK as an investor on its own behalf and on its own account. The built infrastructure will be part of the public rail network and will become state-owned after the end of the concession period. The mode of funding is clear and at least burdens taxpayers. The budgetary financing of the Republic of Slovenia is limited by a capital injection of up to EUR 200 million also due to the adopted fiscal rule and the requirement to reduce public debt. Therefore, the Government has also decided to use the innovative financial instruments introduced by Juncker’s investment programme to finance the project, which is the so-called EFSI mechanism. The law proposes the participation of partnered outlying countries, so we are talking about a public-private partnership. In addition to the capital injections and European grants, the third component of the project financing will be the European Investment Bank loan with a guarantee of the European Fund for Strategic Investments. The law also provides for the inflows of 2TKK during the implementation of the concession. Finally, let me stress that the second track project will benefit both the Slovenian economy and the economies of the Western countries, which are connected to the port of Koper and represent 70% of the transhipment in our port. The growth and competitiveness of the port of Koper and all logistics activities will continue. And what we sometimes do is a little bit of emphasis — passengers will be driving on the second track. Today's adoption of the law is one of the important milestones on our path or even better on the course of Divac-Koper. This will allow us to apply for an already open European tender in July, since 2TKK will become an investor in construction and we will be able to start with the preparatory works this year. Your Honor! I'm counting on your support for the marriage, which is how the first train, thanks to you, will be able to take over in 2025. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u103	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u104	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to Members and Members of Parliament and also to the Minister with the team! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 52nd session. 4. Consider the proposal for a law on the construction, management and management of the second track of the Divač-Koper railway line submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr. Peter Gasperšič, presented the main solutions to the law. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Janja Sosič, pointed out that it was not clear from the proposal of the law what risk was taken by 2TKK, especially given that, after the construction of the second track from the Republic of Slovenia, she would receive a payment for the availability that she would be provided with funding when doing well with other sources. It follows from the assessment of the financial implications of the draft law that all the loans hired and paid back to project co-investors should be repaid after the concession period. In view of the fact that 2TKK is provided with a permanent source of funding, it pointed out that it would indicate where the operating risks of this company appear. Mr Verbic, the representative of the Council of State, stressed that the Commission does not support the bill. Among the key reasons for non-support, he highlighted a short-term public debate, which took place only a few days before the adoption of the bill. It further highlighted the uncertainty of funding sources for the construction of the second track, with only EUR 200 million in budgetary resources being provided. The representative of 2TKK Methods of Dragonja explained in relation to the legislative service's comment that the most important risk for the project company will be the construction on the second track. This is a very demanding engineering facility, which is carried out mostly after a very difficult karst terrain. The budgetary values of the project are therefore one of the key risks also addressed by the European Investment Bank. The risks on the construction side are linked to the risks of providing funding for the project and possible overruns. Risks are spread over the entire construction period and continue during the period of operation of the newly built infrastructure for as long as the concession ratio persists. In the debate, the United Left Group expressed opposition to the possibility of ownership of other countries entering 2TKK. In its opinion, by preventing this possibility, it is ensured that the route of Divac-Koper will remain in 100 % ownership of the Republic of Slovenia during the 65-year period of validity of the concession. In addition, in their view, the financing of the project is cheap. The investment laboratory foresees that the payments made by Luke Koper, Darsa and Slovenian Railways and transfers from the state budget to the owners of 2TKK would provide a return of 4,5 %, almost half of this input would have to be provided to the Republic of Hungary, meaning that the capital injection of EUR 200 million would ultimately pay substantially more than the long-term loan. On the other hand, other opposition Members have raised a dilemma as to whether we need a law and a company to build a second track. They pointed out that the dilemmas, or the construction of the second track, were not, but the way in which the project was carried out was being questioned. In their opinion, there are companies in Slovenia that are qualified to manage and implement such projects. On the possibility of other countries entering the project, however, they expressed the view that each serious foreign partner's approach to the project was welcome. Members of the Modern Centre Party expressed their support for the bill and pointed out that after many years of discussions on the construction of the second track, the Government had decided to carry out a second track project. In their view, the bill provides a good basis for all further activities, including negotiations with European institutions, banks and the latter. In the view of Members of the Modern Centre Party, it would be unwise for the other countries to completely reject the possibility of accession to the project, their support for the project is still desirable, given that all these countries are also gravitating to other ports in the northern Adriatic, thereby representing direct competition for the ports of Kohorsko. After discussion, the Committee adopted several of its amendments, but it did not accept or become irrelevant the amendments of the Joint Left Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u105	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec, Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The second track law, which we are dealing with, is inaccurate in several points and allows for derogations and budgetary risks to arise. The law, which envisions a billion-dollar investment in the construction of the 27-kilometre line between Divisco and Kopro, is not allowed to be accepted by emergency procedure, as there were no answers to many questions. The Law on construction, management and management of the second track for which a building permit has already been obtained shall be adopted by means of an urgent procedure and the application for European funds shall be cited as a reason for the urgency. The deadline is 14 July. Apparently, it is very urgent to strengthen the path of a billion-dollar project, although some opinions are very close to the project that a number of open issues and risks can lead this project along the path of the infamous TES6 project. It would therefore be necessary to clear up all concerns before the law even reaches the decision-making phase of the National Assembly. The law was only six days in public debate, which did not allow for proper public hearing, the concerns of the profession, the civil initiatives were not dealt with precisely enough, and institutions, including the Court of Auditors, were not given the opportunity to define themselves before the adoption of the law. The law has several distinct shortcomings that cannot be rectified and resolved in the parliamentary procedure. Even in coalition partners, SD and Desus, a brief public debate on the bill was also problematic, but they are obviously satisfied with the debate already being held. In the last two decades, there have been several versions of the project, which has been devoted to a lot of money. Over €50 million have been spent, of which €30 million for documentation and studies, and the remainder for land purchases, research and additional studies. Since the solutions have not been properly debated, the project will forever monitor doubts as to the appropriateness of the technical solutions adopted. The problem is that the project is still unfinished today. Comparisons with NIPs with TER 6 are imposed on themselves. While there is a single track in the current plan, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Jure Leban, publicly mentioned in the media that the Government is studying the possibility of building a two-track track. Just a few days earlier, a bill we have before us stated in the Ministry that the project would be developed within the framework of the existing project documentation. This does not include the construction of an additional track, which means that without changing the documentation the construction of the additional track is impossible. Both the Ministry of Infrastructure and 2TKK ensure that they intend to implement the project in accordance with the project documentation and the building permit issued in order to avoid further delays linked to the modification of the project documentation. Following the current proposal of the Ministry, funding for the construction of the second track would be dispersed among several investors. In addition to the taxpayers' contribution, 50 million euros have already been invested, another 190 million reserved in the budget. They also rely on European Union grants, European Investment Bank loans and the contributions from the behind countries, most likely Hungary. Apart from the country, the readers, the taxpayers, are still under question. The law states that 2TKK, as an investor, is trying to obtain funds from the European Union budget. Such a dictatorship, i.e. the use of the word experiment, even in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly does not belong to law. The government in the bill repeatedly states that the aim of the law is to find a model of funding that will enable the project to be carried out with the least possible means of burdening taxpayers, and then to explain the law: “In the event that the non-refundable European funds are not provided at a sufficient amount or if the funds of the shareholders are not obtained at the planned level, these resources will have to be replaced by an increase in the capital contribution of the Republic of Slovenia or by an increase in loans.” The government in the public always explains that budget funding for the second track is not possible, but the system opens the door to start the project with tax money despite any failure to apply for the EU – this has already happened to us – or in the event of a failure to agree with Hungary. In our view, it is likely that a large part of the financing of the second track will move into the state's public debt and there is no point in hiding from this fact. Capital injections are also in their nature a form of loan and thus a debt to the budget. The investment value of the project in the law is not recorded. We'll only find it in the accompanying text. How much chance is there to encourage the project? The government in its explanation of the proposal for a risk-incentivisation law writes: “The risks of exceeding the budgetary value are always there. They will need to be managed through the strict management of the project and the competitiveness of the award procedures for operators." Although this is beautifully written, the practice has so far proved to be unrealistic. Given that the Commission of the State Council does not support the proposal of the law, and because of all the inconsistencies, we will not support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u107	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice greeting to all present The second-tier project of Divača-Koper is drawn as a yoke of snakes, as are many of our country's major infrastructure projects. We have been talking about him in Slovenia since 1996. All governments and all parliamentary assemblies agreed that the construction of the second track was an important member of the national infrastructure chain, but nothing has happened in all these years. Every so many years, the project became the center of attention, and then it went back to oblivion. Last year, things finally began to move towards the realization of the second track, as they began to look for appropriate solutions. The government has set up a specific project company, a project plan, and then recently a special law, which we are discussing today in the National Assembly. We all agree that the second track is strategically important for several reasons. It represents an industrial vein that connects our Cyprus port and Primorsko with the rest of Slovenia and opens the way for us to Europe. All of us, including Luka Koper and Slovenian railways, expect shipping to grow through the port of Koper, because Luka Koper has an outstanding position to remind me that world markets are growing. It is therefore extremely important for us to develop and increase transport capacity for transporting cargo from Luka Koper forwards to the world. This is where the unity of the Slovenian public ends. We are separated by the issue of the need of the project company 2TKK and also of this law. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that things have finally begun to move, because we have never opposed this project. More. Our support to the Minister has been conditioned precisely by the realization of the construction of the second track. That is why we are trying to trust that the Minister, together with his team, is taking the right steps to complete the construction of the second track. Of course, there are certain risks to the project, which we keep alerting in the Desus Group. And the minister's team gives us specific answers. We are pleased to hear our calls to speak with civil initiative and to listen to their ideas. Luke Koper also finally began to respond and to participate more actively in the project itself. The Minister's team has also taken into account our calls to ensure greater transparency and control over the implementation of the project. The law is thus subject to additional supervision by the Court of Auditors, while at the same time a representative of the civil initiative will be included in the project and financial council, which will agree on the investment programme and the financial plans. As far as cooperation with the hinter countries is concerned, we are at least a little calmed by the idea that any possible entry of another country into the project will be made on the basis of an international agreement to be ratified in the National Assembly. This means that Members will have control over what the Western countries will require in return for the capital injection and we can also refuse the participation of another country if their demands do not seem appropriate to us. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by a majority of the bill. The fact is that there is no longer time to delay, as you know the neighbouring countries are accelerating to build a railway connection from Trieste, which leads through Slovenia, which can have devastating consequences for our economy as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u109	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Jan Škoberne. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u110	Mr Vice-President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The foundation for the development of successful, even the richest countries is always in the effectiveness and far-reachingness of their industrial policies, together with the development of key infrastructures that represent an environment for economic growth, the development of quality jobs and thus enable the development of a state of prosperity where it is possible to share, where solidarity can be created in a way that provides for people, health care, education, to be translated into the simplest time frame, a high standard of living. Through this brief introduction, the Social Democrats in the parliamentary group have also assessed the law and model for the construction of the second track, which is today and in the last few weeks before us. The second track is essential not only for conservation, but mainly for continuing the growth and development of the logistics sector in Slovenia. This is one of the sectors that has lost the most in the crisis, while at the same time it is one of the sectors that has the most development reserve since the transition period to create added value. It is therefore particularly important that we enable the logistics sector to develop, because this will also have an important and essential impact on the development of our country. The law and the model of building the second track ahead of us today are far from what we Social Democrats wanted. We have seen a better solution and we see it today in the partnership between the State, Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways. We believe that such a public-private partnership would be more time-effective, cheaper and, above all, more stable. However, with the team, the minister decided, in spite of his path, to make a unique model of financing and construction. In spite of Slovenian folklore and the inherent practice of throwing pollen under our knees, social Democrats will not stand in the way and we will not interfere with it in the planning, even though we believe that the project can be better. Allow me to draw attention to at least some of the key risks involved. It is not irrelevant that these are both implementing, public finance and corruption. The law means that, at the time of construction, especially in 2021 and 2022, structural efforts will have to be substantially increased, which means that at least part of investment in other sectors, in other parts of the country, but also part of social transfers and tools by which we provide a country of prosperity, will be forced to reduce if economic growth is not adequately high when these buildings are monitored. We are talking about 250 million loads of the state budget in these two key years and twice as much in the whole period at all. Of course, the fact that this amount will be reimbursed in the years 25 to 55 is also true, but these are very distant periods for which we have only theoretical and not at least very predictable models. The risks to the successful implementation of this project are, of course, still facing the potential bankruptcy of 2TKK and the associated obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to pay for the project until the end of the depreciation period. One of the potential dangers is the immensity of the preparatory work and, last but not least, the key thing – it is not yet known what will be the role and the back countries of which. However, if we want to take smaller and larger steps forward, we need to believe here and there that some things are possible and that people are doing them in good faith in the way we know them most. Social Democrats will be followed very closely by the project, and to the Minister and the team in the model that it is, we want everything good and happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u111	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! At a meeting of the Committee on Tuesday, Minister Gasperšič stated that this law allows railway infrastructure to remain in our hands and provides control mechanisms for transparent implementation of the project. This has also been repeated by government representatives today. In fact, none of these two claims are true. The law provides that the owner of the second track will become 2TKK for 45 years, and the Government also advocates that the half-owner of 2TKK will be a foreign back country or, most specifically, Hungary. So the law does not keep the second track in our hands, but for 45 years it is passed on to the co-ownership of another country. Another time. The supervisory mechanisms of this project, which are prescribed by law, are extremely weak. The establishment of a so-called project finance council with five members is envisaged. Four members propose ministries and one organisations propose so-called civil society. But, look, all five members will be appointed by the Minister of Infrastructure himself. The project council will therefore not be an independent body, but an extended deadline for the Minister of Infrastructure. So much for surveillance. Our proposal to amend the project council to an independent body, not to answer to the Minister, but to the National Assembly, is still on the table with our amendments, so I will talk about it in the debate. In this place, however, I would like to explain why Hungary's participation in this project is not necessary, for the first time, and, for the second time, not even desirable. It's not desirable because it's going to inspire the project for us. That's a fact. Well, especially for Slovenian citizens. We will pay EUR 8 million for the operation of 2TKK from the budget every year, an additional 24 million will be paid to 2TKK by Slovenian Railways, Dars, Luka Koper. With these funds we will not only finance the operation of the second track, but literally Hungary will provide a 4.5% return on capital, i.e. on what they will invest. The minister on the committee reiterated that this return was not guaranteed, but it was a simple misappropriation. It is with this law that three new public benefits are introduced, which will be the revenue of 2TKK, namely tunnelage, toll premium and transhipment fee in the port of Kore. The investment laboratory is prepared in such a way as to allow for a 4.5% return on capital. The law therefore lays down all the conditions for this return to be granted. The participation of Hungary or foreign capital is therefore undesirable because we will thus subsidise a foreign country, at the same time it is unacceptable that Hungary will not be satisfied with just a return on capital. As we have seen from the records, Hungary is demanding some kind of tied-up business. Government representatives can speak what they want, but the Hungarian requirements are clear. Businesses related to their construction companies, concessions on our port infrastructure in the port of Kore and possibly even indirect privatisation of Luka Koper through a newly established holding company. Two weeks ago, this was clearly and unequivocally reiterated by the Hungarian Foreign Minister. The participation of Hungarian capital is also not necessary. When the government decided on a public-private partnership at the end of 2014, the aim was not to see the debt of 2TKK counted in the state's public debt. The government now recognises that the debt of 2TKK will be a public debt, and this remains unchanged, whether or not Hungary is a capital participant. The government project also stems from the assumption that Slovenia cannot afford €200 million of capital on its own without violating the fiscal rule. That's not true either. The state of public finances will be significantly better than the forecasts of those days. The coalition will therefore adopt today a new postponement on the preparation of the budgets that we have heard about so far. It increases the budget's eligible expenditure by EUR 281 million in 2019. This means that Slovenia can afford a cheaper way of building and that the second track can actually be maintained in our hands if you want, without any additional obligation, without violating all European rules. For these reasons, of course, we will oppose this law in the United Left because it is unnecessary, and at the same time represents a whole bunch of risks, because it is so inconvenient that it is practically bait for fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u113	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u114	Dear Vice President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! In New Slovenia, we support the development of infrastructure, both road and rail, including the construction of a second track, but not in the version proposed by the Government. We are aware that according to the geographical position of Slovenia, infrastructure is very important. Slovenia has a great opportunity to develop logistics, we have a pretty good highway infrastructure, but we have done nothing on railway infrastructure, so it is essential that we increase capacity in this way, but not in such a way and in such a way. The Second Tier Act, which we are about to vote on today, is misplaced, incomplete and entails financial and environmental risks. The law has only been in public debate for six days, and we are now accepting it as a matter of urgency. Why? In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the draft law was too short a time in public consideration, which is also attached by the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Court of Auditors. The project is to be financed from the capital gains of the Republic of Slovenia, the loans of the European Investment Bank, the EU's non-refundable incentives and the participation of partner-led countries. Only Hungary is currently interested in this. Hungary will strengthen its transport path through our territory, and it will certainly want to elevate its contribution. For this project we have only state money worth 200 million, nothing else is yet fixed, it is not safe, so we believe that this law is premature, that we need more time, and the project could be different. Ten district ministers have so far been involved in this project. It has been 20 years since the first version, and in recent months the Ministry has been rushing with this bill to catch Slovenia's deadline for EU grants. We have heard today that this does not hold that this is not a condition for the adoption of this law. The project is not sufficiently complete, innovative and does not meet all the tendering conditions for EU funds, so this is an overkill in our opinion. From the statements made by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr. Lebn, in Tarč's broadcast on RTV Slovenia 13. 4. it turns out that the Government is studying the possibility of building a double track, so we are asking in our parliamentary group whether we even know what we are going to build. We believe that the construction of two tracks is necessary, not only what is determined by the project, for which we also have a building permit number in the law. That means we already have something to build. It would be right for the government to ask again whether it was two tracks or just one. With regard to the strategy for the development of transport infrastructure in Slovenia, we should follow this strategy and view railway infrastructure as a whole, not just those 27 kilometres of road. The Second Tier Act brings a new levy on Luca Koper. This is the freight charge that Luka will pay – this will reduce Luke’s competitiveness, the toll premium, which is what we will charge tolls on the highway. The carriers also point out that the increase in tolls is out of the question and that Dars has to repay more than 2 billion credits and can't keep up the toll indefinitely. In New Slovenia we support the development of Slovenia and economic growth, but it is necessary to have good projects that are profitable and bring about better development. We support the construction of the second track, but we believe that we can take another year and prepare the project well or consider another option.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u115	The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u116	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Critical infrastructure is very important for the development of Slovenia and one of the risk assessments for the future shows that the second track is still important due to its multiplicity effects. The analysis of the status of the second track shows that more stories are intertwined. I can put at least three out. One is the technical story, what exists in the project, what we're going to build, will be one track, will be two and where it will take place. Another story, which is already more complicated, is the story of the privatisation of infrastructure. Everything is intertwined with indications that the second track will lead to privatisation of both Luke Koper and infrastructure. And there is a third story about systemic corruption, which shows employment in the institutions that run the project and legislation that is being adopted. If I go to law school. How is this law adopted? By emergency procedure. The Anti-Corruption Commission and the Court of Auditors have assessed that such adoption of the law has potential corruption risks. There are no clear solutions. It always shows that the costs will be higher and that we will not reach these funds. The European Union's promised funds had already been promised by the Minister before the previous call, and we were late at that time. Second story. How are we gonna build? Private-public partnership, public-public partnership? The analysis of Scandinavian countries shows that corruption risks are very high here. We don't know who's going to guarantee everything for the job, what's the motive for those who join the business, who's going to pay for it, and who's going to be responsible. There are no clear answers. The influence of other countries. We have already pointed out the impact of Italy, the route via Pontebba, the strategic interests of other countries and now Hungary's partnership. What is the interest of this partner? We've seen that they require at least three things: building privileges, transportation privileges, and requests for concessions in Luka Koper. Are these Slovenia's interests? What is Owl doing to protect the political, security and economic interests of Slovenia? We know there's also been a dispute in Owl's personnel. Maybe that's why these problems are. So I can conclude with Aristotle, who says the country is better run by an excellent man than an excellent law. If we see the law, he's not great. The profession, the Anti-Corruption Commission and others consider it to be corrupt. What about the team that runs the project? Can we trust those people who have lost their jobs because of past corruption risks? We cannot support all the above-mentioned law, but we are very committed to building the second track, but as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u117	Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u118	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! Today, after more than a decade of different studies and putting the second track into space, we are talking about another important step on the way to realizing this strategically important and constructionly demanding infrastructure project. This is an important step after a building permit was issued for him last year. The draft law, which is on our tables, lays down the conditions and modalities for the implementation of the second track, the management and management of the second track as a public railway infrastructure, the role and tasks of 2TKK d. o. o., its authorities and the revenue to be paid by the company. The law provides that the founder and only member of this company is the Republic of Slovenia. However, it allows for the possibility of a business share in a company under the conditions laid down in the Interstate Agreement ratified by this National Assembly to be acquired by another Member State or Member State of the European Union and their share cannot be achieved or exceeded by the share of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby ensuring that the Republic of Slovenia has a majority share in the company and associated rights. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we join the Government's position to reduce, on the one hand, the financial risks of the participants in the project and, on the other hand, to the nature of a regional or broader European project, thereby increasing its ability to obtain funds from EU tenders. We adopt the law as a matter of urgency, as this will enable cooperation for obtaining European grants and the CEF invitation to tender in July 2017, which covers a billion euro in non-refundable terms, in which the construction of a second track can also be financed in a significant proportion. In the SMC Group, we believe that such opportunities must be taken advantage of and prepared to ensure that Slovenia succeeds in this call for candidates. The law is accompanied by reports of an increase in the risk of corruption. Let me mention the provisions aimed at explicitly reducing corruption risks. The law establishes a dedicated company that will deal with the construction and management of the second track. Such a case is not the first in Slovenia, such a case is the case of the state-owned company Infra, which builds the infrastructure at the hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that such an approach to investment is more transparent than it is for a billion euro of assets to be managed by one of the state-owned enterprises already engaged in a host of other activities and businesses, and therefore it would be significantly more difficult to monitor possible malicious outflows of funds. This is also due to the potential for the participation of the LAGs which cannot be included by ownership in other companies, such as the Slovenian Railway-Infrastructure. Next. The Ministry is responsible for monitoring the capital company. The responsible minister, not Minister Gasperšič, but Minister Gasperšič, is responsible, but every time. So it is not a case of policy being able to wash its hands in one of the Halls of the National Assembly, as it is now doing in the TES 6 hearings, but it will be directly in line with criminal law and every time minister. Furthermore, in addition to the provisions of the law governing integrity and the prevention of corruption, provisions relating to the incompatibilities of the performance of the function, the prohibition of membership and activities, the prohibition and restriction of the acceptance of gifts and the restriction of business applicable to professional officials, the declaration of property status, the provisions on lobbying and the like shall apply mutatis mutandis to the administration of the company. A member of the Management Board or of the Supervisory Board may be designated as a person who, in addition to the conditions laid down by the law governing companies, fulfils the specific conditions laid down in this Act, such as integrity, business ethics, experience, business performance, adequate level of education, at least 10 years of relevant work experience and so on. Nor must the company have a business share in the property of natural persons or legal persons of private law; the company must be a contracting entity after public procurement. These are all the circumstances that significantly move this project away from TES 6, which is often mentioned. Last but not least, the role of the Court of Auditors, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, is laid down in the law, so that we estimate that this has ensured that what everyone is alerting to will not happen. The second track project is a Slovenian project, a regional project as well as a European project, we believe that we need to move the matter from a dead point. Today, as I said before, one important step is to do so, regardless of the urgency of the law. So I don't give anyone silence or cover for the execution of corruption, fraud or other crimes, nor to those who are today skeptical of the law, but some of them even promise themselves at the same time that they will be in power at a time when this project is actually being built. It follows from all of this that we will support this proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u119	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled. Since the amendments of the United Left Group to Articles 43 and 48a are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate Articles 43 and 48a and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors the United Left to the articles. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. I suggest you sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Where do I start? In some facts, yes, at first, bravo. [[…]] In the bare facts. Let's start here. So the second track is a grateful political and media theme, that's a fact. The second fact that we lost a lot of time around the second track. The next fact that 25 years are spoken very, very, very large and little is made concrete. The facts are that we still don't have another track. Next fact. I have mentioned this book many times, and this is one Bible about the second track written by the late Danilo Petrinja, the first director of Luke Koper. What's this all about? Once again, history repeats itself. Then I'll start from here on out. The first fact he mentioned in this book from before 1999 is the issue of funding. The one who read it on page 57 will tell him a lot. I can read to him if he wants. Next fact. The political support of the then single-party system — you will not believe — is the same as it is now; there were always dilemmas, there were always contradictions, there was always something. The following fact stated by the gentleman in his book on technical variants, here we have a second indent or we can compare it with today's civil initiatives, which have found one hundred and one variant. What is the following fact that Mr Petrinja mentions in his book? Cooperation with Hungary and also with Austria — page 41, who are interested. What else is such an interesting fact that this law is very close to? That Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways established a joint company that helped and was responsible for infrastructure, and this was the Institute of Investment Ljubljana – page 104. I wouldn't list a number of such interesting things that came in here with this connection, with this work to build this second track, but such incredible similarities are that one can imagine exactly how this history repeats itself. I'm moving on. The person has the feeling that everything is done in this project, just so that the second track is not made, that it has a full mouth of everything, with a fig in its pocket, from politics, that's us, to the profession. In short, it's just a squirm. Next fact. Of all the customers, present and former in Parliament, we had a great sea of infrastructure ministers; ten — you will not believe! Among them are two Primors, who also have their own visions and views. But if I come back. For all these ten ministries, until now, with regard to the effectiveness and visibility of this second track project, which we have a full mouth for 25 years, I would say that it is very small. Except for the United Left and us, the SMC, which we now have this Minister, are actually all the customers involved here. One wonders if all governments have done enough to move this matter from a dead course. Personally, I don't think so. Let's move on. We are now going to our popular minister, with whom I have a very turbulent relationship and a particular aggregate situation. But I admit that after the Istrian-moral temperament, I'm unsuspecting, impatient, even stubborn and one of the goals I've set myself, is to move this project from a state of rest to an active phase. Now, as far as I'm concerned, the facts are the following, and this has to be admitted to the minister and the team as follows: the draw track is done – finally, I will say. I hope that we are coming into a serious phase – this is under B. Under C – I mean and almost demand that the preparatory works be glassed this year. Under D — the sermian entrance is being prepared, working, and much more is being prepared than I am aware of what I am giving him for good. I agree, however, that I have spent a lot of time together with Lilliana and Tilna; first of all, I believe that my client colleagues and the party first believe that this project is very important for Slovenia, not just locally, for the region, Slovenia and around. And I'm really persistent and I'm also a pain in the ass, I admit it. The following is the fact that, with the arrival of Mr Lebna, the new Secretary of State, the pace and understanding of this project have been substantially changed and accelerated. If we are counting on the fact that a state-owned site project has been built and placed in space since 2005, then we are wondering what happened to the construction permit that was made by 2006. Very little, but O.K. Next, another fact that is so very interesting. As we approach the realization of the project, more civil initiatives, experts, media opinions, which are – look at the fraction – than mushrooms in the rain just before the present began to establish and become active, according to a pattern and some lever. Who would have thought that right now? Where have all these stakeholders and concerned citizens been so far, I wonder. Did they sleep the dream of a righteous man? I don't know. Now all of a sudden, everything's wrong. Whoo! The following fact, which is also very interesting and is also widely used by the media, is the theory of conspiracy. According to my behavior, we have two types of conspiracy theories. It is said that under A external conspirators – Italians, Austrians, Croats, Hungarians and also Germans, for example – and under B internal conspirators. These internal conspirators are blocking, which is mainly Slovenians who are hampering their partisan interests by a second track. But of course they're big patriots. I don't know what's worse to make that impression. I don't think there's anything you can do without them. And under point eight. I was just getting ready, so I wrote so much because it's kind of my home. Under point eight. The vast majority of governments, including this, have politically calculated the project. Why? I'll tell you. After three years in the so-called real Slovenian policy, I have come to realize that unfortunately all governments are not working in the long term and that today no government has wanted, as Mr Pojbič would say, to catch the bull by the horns, which is a project of the second track. Because it is known that this project lasts at least two mandates and that there is a strong possibility that the governments that start it will not end it. Of course, medals and successes will be eaten by someone else. That's also a fact, and I think that's what encouraged this second-track snitching as well. Next, the ninth fact. We've reached a decision point. In the government, someone has to decide and rule. The end is now this misdirection, debate, politicization, moralization. Finally, I am pleased that this government has decided and taken responsibility, including with us, and has moved from a rhetorical declaration to an operational one. The time in these 25 years for debates, whether there were enough of these assumptions, theories, studies, so all of the confusions that have cheered up, I'm talking about the second track, is enough and too much. Those who have been in the real business know that once you have decided, the matter must be handled and all good and all bad things must be taken up and all the consequences taken away, and you will not believe, I feel a great responsibility, and I am also prepared to accept this responsibility from everyone else, and I have no problem. We are no longer in some creative stages, but in some implementation and for a small sea of new, old ideas, I think it's over now. Now I'm going to keep going. Some will never have enough of this debate about this second track, what can be done, a bunch of comments, and this is already, it seems, in our nation. Talk about risks Okay, there are risks, there are risks. [[…]] And always, as in life, there's no shortage of them. But the task of the government and the minister is that they are responsible to all of us to do their job and we have to trust her somehow. Speaking of doubts and fears in this law; yes, I do, I do. Something can always go wrong, marriage isn't perfect, but the point is, it's people. If these are corrupt, greedy, immoral – this shows us all these stories from before, highways, TES – no law helps us or God himself. Regardless of what we say, the fact that we will never be in public, not in laziness, not in the professional, but in politics, is a common single solution for a million such and different reasons, and in this case the second track is the same. Come in. One way I understand Luke Koper's administration is because he's been losing patience and trust for 25 years because he doesn't know exactly whether this unfortunate second track is going to happen or not. This government, whatever it is, has made a promise, and I hope it will keep it. On the other hand, I do not understand that all three main players, stakeholders, Slovenian Railways, the Ministry and Luka cannot be agreed. But also this antagonism has been discussed by Mr Petrinja in his book and is probably a traditional one already. Even if the law goes forward at this point, we must not forget that we are still far from the construction and use of the second track; according to grave estimates at least seven years, if not more, to be applied. Here's another fact. We must not forget that we fell asleep in Slovenia. Logistic and food flows are passing extremely quickly, changing and passing if and for so long. Why am I saying this? The Chinese have already bought Piraeus, they are working there, they say, a fast track towards Belgrade, from there to Budapest and so on to the Baltic. They also work on the amber line, the Suez Canal has expanded to have queens, saying, large ships with no idea how many thousands of containers on them, Italians on the other hand invest in the market port, this year was given at least 70 million, and railway connections work; the Austrians are working around us in a variety of trades and so on and so on. Where are the guards and restraints here, especially in this law? Maybe there's one interesting thing in the first place. It's a fiscal rule where we're limited and limited to some extent. In addition, we must not forget that we still have some 32 billion debts that we have raised from 25 years to now, from the beginning until now, and that we are paying interest. There is already one fact here that we cannot owe more than that as a country. Maybe that's why marriage is important. What else is important as a security guard or a restriction? Thus, the SDH strategy, where some of us have tried to place certain public services, such as the Slovenian Railways and Luka, among the strategic investments; it is said that the Slovenian government must have more than 51% over this deadline. What are the other facts and limitations that limit us in having some kind of breadth around this law when I speak? That is, a limited budget and limited funding. Therefore, this foreign capital may also be taken into account. O.K. We have administrations, boards of directors, supervisory councils, it's like a safeguard, but given all previous experience, it probably won't be enough, so I'm calling again from here on the government and on everything to look at and maybe add additional checkpoints if necessary. O.K., one thing is that a civilian initiative has been given to the 2TDK Supervisory Board. What else do we have? Clearly, we have a small sea of laws and law enforcement authorities that are supposed to deal with this “crime”. We also have this option, which has already been mentioned in one of the positions, I think from Desus, it is said that if and when this interstate agreement with a foreign country, it will have to be ratified in the National Assembly. Further, it must be said that any government, and even finally every new national assembly, can change this law. Another of these very interesting things is that one forgets to say here, if there is no European funding, this second track project will stop and consider it. And another of the controls that I sometimes forget or look at from a very negative point of view is these European institutions, such as JASPERS or the European Investment Bank, which has its own control of points, even though the TES has gone through them, so that we can also have big questions here. As far as this marriage is concerned, I am in a kind of big crossroads, and I am also putting pressure on all the things that are going on about it. Whether we can or we want to take this step forward or not, it's up to us. If I finish, I have a goal ahead of me, that's the second track. You're going to say that the goal justifies the means that the path to hell is also pressed with good intentions, as Dante said. Okay, but with the snitching we have, the question is, what are we gonna do? Think about it a lot. OK. But I am deeply confident that the voters will present their account to us in any way in the upcoming elections, and we have no problem with that. However, we must say this or say that the tracks will not be transferred physically to Hungary, will remain here, in Slovenia, and will help with the multiple effects for all the economy throughout Slovenia. Not least, if we look at it that way, once we've decided to jump, we have to accept it, do it and do it as best we can. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u121	Mag. Andrei Shircelj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I think we all have goals in our lives, as my colleague Ferruga said, we have goals that are achievable and goals that are not achievable. The question is whether we have a way to achieve these goals. The bigger question is whether this path is the right one. The further question is if we are also being served by others along this path to reach this goal, and not least, here I mean especially those others, if they will have the money to reach this goal. I think we can imagine many goals, and then they will not be feasible, and unfortunately I think that one of these unfulfilled goals is without a path in this law as well. Not because the goal itself would be unfulfilled, but because there is simply no way or the way is wrong, or because the path is too expensive, or because the path is simply not reasonable. And that's probably the kind of concern that translates us all today, or maybe with more optimism, some with more pessimism, some with realism. Of course, if there is no way, then, of course, it is also a question of how far this goal will be to determine exactly how far this goal will cost us. Do we today know how much this goal will cost us? In this regard, I will, of course, have some questions for the Minister and not only how much it will cost us at the moment, but how much this goal will also cost future generations. In short, how much will the second track of Koper-Beautiful cost not us, including future generations. And I want you here, Minister, if you can be very exact. First of all, of course, I want to know how many investment plans you have for this second track. Optimistic, very optimistic, realistic, less realistic, less optimistic, probably five, six, among which we will be able to choose what and how. I am interested in the profitability of this project in individual investment plans. I want to know what the economics of this project is. I want to know where the legal bases are and where the funds are provided to get as much money as it's supposed to cost. See, one of the legal bases I am interested in is this reverse tax burden of VAT, and so on. If you can ask, or if you have already asked, then you already know, colleagues at the Ministry of Finance, which section of the law will determine this, according to the directive, if this is in accordance with the European Commission Directive; because VAT is not to be invented by us, VAT is a European tax and a European directive. So here I would really ask you for the basis and, of course, how this financial framework will run. Thus, we have a company of 2TKK, which you claim will not pay, will pay this tax and exit tax, but this company of 2TKK will probably receive invoices from operators, subcontractors and so on; with tax, without tax and so on. Just as municipalities today receive bills from some subcontractors, contractors and so on and cannot deduct this tax as an entry tax because they do not carry out their business. Or this 2TKK company will be charging someone else something, and then it's possible it will be. Just look, you can say this very precisely, as well as the legal basis, how this is actually going to work, because this is probably going to be some kind of mess in Europe, and this should probably be patented on the European Commission. I'm very interested in that, which is what you're talking about. Then you have the next question, these are guarantees or funding. Here you said that it would be financed in an innovative financial way, also writes Juncker's Investment Fund and so on – strategic investments. I do not think the law is necessary for you to sign up for this Juncker fund; if so, then tell me about the huge other projects that other countries have financed from or financed from this fund. You may know, however, if Hungarians or Austrians have adopted any special fund for these projects – a special law, I apologize for these projects. I think for 20 kilometers of tracks, we should adopt a special law. Dear Government of Mir Cerar, I don't know if you'll be enacting a special law on how to sell and buy tomatoes. You're starting a little bit with this lex Mercator and so on. But this special law is, so to speak, created here in our home, not because of Europe and not because of the European Commission or the Juncker Fund and so on. It's just that, by the way. You've already talked about the risks, and here I would remind you of the financial risks from your material, materials. The financial sustainability of the project company will be ensured if the budget, in the period of operation of the project after its construction in 2025, allocates an annual amount of between €30 million and €40 million. Okay, now if we let it go to 30% difference and that it's 10 million euros up or down, 30 or 40 million -- see, that's unless you have one 30 million under the investment programme, two 32 million under the investment programme and three 33 million and so on, and then tell me what the investment programme is going to be. [[…]] If you have this, then, look, you will answer the question and of course I will be satisfied with the answer. Otherwise, between 30 and 40, of course, this will be followed by a further 30-year period per year. 30 years times 30 million — just one billion to the thumb, 900 million — and if between 30 and 40, between 900 million and a billion 200, it will still cost Slovenian taxpayers, because we have not yet reached the end. This will come out of the budget. Here he says, “if the budget is in operation” – for a period of 30 years, so sure. We have previously dealt with matters related to the resolution on budgetary stability and so on, which should be given to the European Commission at the previous point. It also stated that there are certain risks. But now tell us what Slovenian citizens and citizens will be deprived of because the budget under this law will be between 30 million and 40 million each year. Someone's gonna get less for that. Someone's gonna get less. Every year for 30 to 40 million Slovenian citizens and citizens will receive less because this will be financed by 2TKK. For this reason, of course, I am interested, see Minister, the profitability, but maybe this company will have such a profit that profit, I don't know, will cover between 60 million and 80 million and the company will pay back that 60 to 80 million. But here I'm afraid I've now come to the level of illusions. But if you say so, look, and if you have documents for it, I'll believe you. Then onward, of course, how much this will cost on the basis of the substance of the law. According to the Eurostat methodology, the cumulative effect will be €400 to €500 million. Assuming that the project company will be included in the state sector, that the budget value will be as much as it is — I do not know which methodologies — and that this will be as much, of course as I understand the additional. EUR 400 to 500 million, the largest of which will be in the years of the largest building dynamic, 2021-2023, will be between €100 and € 160 million. It says what citizens and citizens will get less for this money. Tell us where you will reduce your expenditure, because, see, the European Commission requires so much and so much expenditure, today we have received this, whether we have talked about the order or the decree, there will probably be a vote on the decision, and someone will get less. Tell me who! Let the government tell you who's gonna get less for this. It's the same thing here. So much and so much money, so much and so much expenditure, it says in the decree, a little less than 10 billion at the annual level. Because someone will get more, in this case, 2TKK, someone else will get less. Tell me who gets less! Retired, those who receive social benefits pay in public administration? You have a lot at your disposal to say, of course, who will get less. You can all do it, just a little bit and so on and so forth. And your data, as small as it is, will be minimal to make a cumulative commitment to the implementation of projects in the indicative amount of EUR 300 million and will increase public debt, but most of this increase will not exceed 0.75% of the gross social product. You also write this in terms of financial consequences. So, I calculated on my finger that this is 300 million. The public debt will increase by 300 million. But this public debt brings with it interest, which will be paid by future generations. I think the Ministry of Finance has been able to help you and they have calculated how much interest will be paid, taking into account today's low interest rate. Tell me how much interest the future generations will pay more for these liabilities for this route. I guess you'll say, look, but according to our assumptions, profitability, economy and so on and so forth, the financial structure will be such that the profit that this 2TKK will create will cover all these interest, cover these expenses, cover everything and we'll live, I don't know, I don't know, in heaven. But look, you didn't write this, Minister of Respect. The government did not give this explanation, which of course means that everything goes to the expense. Someone's gonna get less for that. Of course, tell me who. So of course I expect your answers to this question, because I think that for a project for which a special law is adopted, this expectation is fully justified. [[…]] Completely justified and I don't think I'm asking difficult questions. There's something else I want to know. I'm interested in some technical details. How much traffic do we have in Slovenia, and how much passenger traffic do we have? If you have the latest information. Look, when I was dealing with this, this ratio was about 4% passenger and 96% cargo. Maybe it's similar now. What kind of cargo and what kind of trains will be on this track, and how many passengers will be on this track? Up to 160 kilometers per hour, up to 160 kilometers per hour. And about 20 kilometers down the tunnels. I think it's going to be like going into some kid's world, like, I don't know, I'm not going to say, the train of death is called there in those kids' games and so on. Tunnels, 160 an hour and so on. What's it gonna cost, like, 100 miles? How much would it cost under your investment programme C, D, E, if it were, say, speed up to 80 kilometers per hour, up to 120 kilometers per hour, up to 130 kilometers per hour? You know, because this price is multiplying, because of the construction – and at least – this is multidisciplinary because you have to provide much more expensive equipment for this speed, which will electronically monitor these trains and so on. You know more about this. And this is where the multipliers are made. Now there's one more thing. There is no European directive setting 160 kilometres or any other speed. They're recommendations. The recommendations of the railroad associations, if you like, can also be said by a lobbyist organization. Lobby. Just like you have a bankers' association, you have an association of highway operators. There is no directive setting out 160. What are we driving? Fruits, bananas, cars 100 miles through tunnels. Is that cost-effective? And, of course, you can tell because we will also take the passengers, how much less they will be able to travel to Kopra, say Ljubljana-Koper, especially because from these 160 kilometers they will then go to a train that will travel at an average speed of 50, 60, 70, 80 – I don't know how many. You probably have calculations of how many, certainly not 160, stations will be and so on. For my sake, you can also take Ljubljana–Maribor or Ljubljana–Jesenice. Here I am interested in what she said in her analysis of this project, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. You must know. The OECD made an assessment of this project, as I know, was a negative assessment, it was determined that it was non-economical, and there was still much in there. I want to know what your opinion is, no matter what this organization has actually done in this report, but, given the results, the conclusions of this study. So, Minister, look, I get the law and I doubt it. I mean, I doubt it - that's not my word, someone said it before me. I have a right to know and therefore I would ask for these answers, not only to me personally, to the Slovenian public, to the Slovenian Members and Members, so that they know not only what they will pay, but also how much they will pay. And not only what they shall pay today and here, but also what the generations that come shall pay. And, of course, economy, profitability. I think you'll be able to serve with all this information, Your Honor. I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u123	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u124	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon. Let him raise his hand in this hall that is against the construction of the second track. I can't see any hands. Even when we listened to the position, there was not a single position by the Group of Members that would say that they were against the construction of the second track. That's another thing. Why is the second track needed? Most likely to speed up the transhipment in Koper. This is a basic matter and I think it is also due to the eternal competitiveness of the port of Cyprus. If you are monitoring, most likely, foreign press or television, then you know that the Chinese have entered Greece to renovate ports there, to accelerate the construction of rail lines against Central Europe. That ports in Western Europe are so sophisticated that practically only for the operational execution of overload and other logistics procedures will almost buy the time that ships need longer to sail north of Europe than if they reach us. These are probably the reasons why this second track is needed and why no one in this House opposes it. Now we get to the next thing. What's the problem? But there are two problems, according to my assessment. First, how much will that cost us, and what will be the route? As far as finance is concerned, hand to heart, there are very different numbers in this country. The professional public, the government makes statements, estimates that this could be built there all from €650 million to €2 billion. It's a range of money, a number that appears in public about the price. And no one can claim to be that much, that's what the price will be. The current route between Kopro and the Theatre is certainly dangerous, many of these fires set the trains on fire. And the other thing is, whoever's been driving or following these freight trains, if you've ever gone to live to see or follow, they seem insanely slow to me. I don't think they drive faster on some sections than 50 kilometers an hour. Here are the critics of those who say, wait, they're now driving 30, 40, 50 kilometers an hour, now they're going to make a road to drive 160 kilometers an hour. What for? A reasonable thought, of course. Perhaps those from the northeast end of Slovenia or who did not follow this story about the second track in such detail; now we have one track from Kopra to Divaca. The government proposal is to give a whole new track on this route between Koper and the Fan. It's a new track. In other locations, we take a new route from Kopra to Divaca. Now there is an alternative option, which many professors are talking about, engineers and similar professions who say it is expensive and also pointless that on this new route there will be more than 20 km of tunnels and viaducts – construction of tunnels and viaducts is very expensive – and it is possible to build another additional track on the existing tracks, at the most dangerous section, at the Black Kal, and build a 4-km tunnel. This is the difference between the alternative option represented by livestock and the government option. The key difference is that a government variant requires many more tunnels, viaducts than a variant of the profession. In my opinion, the interest of a lot of people is also clear why they are more supportive of the government option. More money will also turn here, and the construction of viaducts is unfortunately not cheap. When some of us in the opposition encouraged the Government to start seriously discussing alternative options, the Minister of Infrastructure will come to the Infrastructure Committee and say little to us that we cannot talk about these things, the time is delayed, it is all too late, a similar story to that of TES, and the fundamental issue is whether it is so, putting it into space. The Minister argued that if any alternative were to be decided, this would mean a new six to eight years just for placement in space. Well, then one wonders, how on the other hand it was possible to place a second caravan tunnel or an investment by Magne near Maribor. Things were going much faster there. And when a person starts to dig a little bit more – and I got this data from the expert group – about putting it in a place like land, if we make an extra track at the existing track. The expert commission claims that 90% of these land is already owned by the State. So we already have a lot of problems. Another thing that is not negligible if, at the current track, we give another additional track in less risky areas, if I say very precisely now, on the route, if we go from sea to continent and from Kopra to Rižana, then we release the most risky part at Black Kal, and we continue again from Prešnica to Divaca, if we put an additional track on these two parts, we would increase the capacity of this track by 30%. That 30 per cent would provide us with the opportunity to build in peace the four-kilometre tunnel advocated by the expert group. But, you know, the Minister and the Government weren't ready to talk about these alternatives, and I think this is exactly what this law is about today. This, I believe, is a key objective of this law, not what the Government claims, but the financing of setting up financial frameworks and launching a second-track project, but that it is essential to kill all discussions on alternative options. Because if you read this government law carefully, even Article 26 mentions the number of building permits for this government option, and anyone who thinks a little logically, it is clear that once this law is passed, the fate of all alternatives will be sealed, the debate on alternatives will no longer be possible, but what the Government has in mind will be done, even if it is 500 or 600 million euros more expensive. And that's what hurts us; not to consider what would be cheaper to maintain the same functionality, if possible, technically build a variant that would be 500, 600 million euros more expensive for the same transfer, then one wonders why not decide on these things. Why do I think that this law is designed precisely to stop the debate on all alternatives? For the first time because obviously the second track is already being built, because the government itself claims, the government ministers and representatives of the government have gone to Koper to seal the first shovel because it is already working the extraction track. So they themselves have confirmed that the second track is practically already being built. So this law cannot now move the point that the second track will begin to build or not. After what the government says, the second track is already being built. And I also thought that the government would use more innovative arguments to try to convince us that this law is urgently needed in order to be able to apply for a European call. We haven't been since yesterday! Those of you who have been mayors or who have applied for any calls, you know that this is certainly not what the Government claims. But if I touch the funding itself right now, it's what the law says. I may surprise someone, but I'm still saying that this project should be financed by those who directly benefit from it. Direct benefits from this second track will come to them – Luka Koper. Given that 96% of freight traffic is 4% passenger, we do not build the second track because so many tourists from Maribor or Murska Sobota and Ljubljana would crash to the Slovenian coast, but we build because of Luka Koper. Luka Koper will have direct benefits, Slovenian railways will also and certainly also the icy countries. After all, if all of this works, so will Slovenian citizens. And in these four elements, I think it is necessary to look for sources of funding for this project. The port of Koper, of course, resists, Slovenian railways too, and now we get to the western countries. It is clear to me that no country, although we are sometimes very strange in Slovenia, but I still believe that we are smart enough not to throw EUR 200 million into a neighbouring country if we did not expect some benefits. I hope we're still smart. I am also sure that Hungary or any other country will not throw millions into the Slovenian project just like that, but, of course, it expects certain benefits. The minister doesn't want to say much about these benefits. Most of all, the Hungarian minister spoke of these benefits, hand to heart. Today he's in a position I've listened to very carefully, Minister, because I was interested in this potential Hungarian stake, whether it's a loan or a capital injection. And the minister said it was a capital injection, that it wasn't a loan. Because if it was a loan, then I'd think it was really stupid for Hungarians to rent us a loan. Unless they're that stupid, but I doubt they are. However, if it is a capital injection, of course anyone who gives a capital injection also expects certain benefits. And certainly the Hungarians too. The Minister of Hungary made them very clear. These are that they want some logistical holding, where Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways and Hungary logistics companies would be. According to my opinion, the Minister does not want to talk so much about these stories because he does not yet have a story to tell, because when they heard about these things in Luka Koper and the Slovenian Railways, they jumped to the point that they are not even ready to talk about these things, that they have nothing to do with Hungary. [[…]] So even when we adopt this law, we don't even know what this interstate treaty will be, what the terms will be. In short, we kind of buy a cat in a jacket. Otherwise, the government is being scrupulously defended in this sense that these things will be accepted by this national assembly anyway. Just because I am not in favour of giving Hungary a privileged position or better access to Luke, I doubt that Hungarians will want to participate in such a Spain, given their appetites. And if they don't, then we're without the 200 million euros that the minister was talking about. So, given what I have said that I understand this law primarily as a law, as a project to stop serious debates on alternatives, you need to understand that I will not support this law, and, of course, even if this law were not adopted, nothing dramatic would happen. The extraction track is being built, the government will be able to apply for the invitation and in the next three, four months, maybe six months, they would lose absolutely nothing, and gain more if this time really devoted to discussions on how to get as much money as possible for the best possible second track variant. This should be our basic message.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u125	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you, President, for your word. It's a nice greeting at this point. First thing. I'll go a little wider. This marriage is just a bluff, if that's what I'm saying. A common bluff, such as the entire mandate of Minister Gasperšić and what is the story around the second track. We all remember, and I will not stop stressing how he came to the hearing with the statement that the second track is not needed, after he saw in some way that this thing might not go through because it is impossible to get such a partner, we have heard a new idea at our interpretation, that they will work together as private partners of Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways. At that time, we have already warned that this would also be a public debt in such a scenario, so that there is no need for us to now follow some other models, as if the state were building it itself, and now we have agreed on some kind of public-public partnership, which is once again a fugitive, which is beside Brenner, who has purely different reasons for building such a model, some perfect innovation, which is also not the most meaningful one. For the government or for the ministry, of course, it is no longer a problem that this will be a public debt. We know, in the law, the government has written down that the debt of 2TKK will be counted in public debt and in short, all the things that we have heard so far so far, in which we today are reasons for rejecting public funding, for some strange financial structures, everything has practically proved to be nothing but a bluff. That's why I'm saying that this law is also a simple bluff. I think that this tradition continues, in fact, the representatives of this ministry, today there are some of these, but also in the past, and the Secretary of State has also said that I would like to go through some of the statements that have appeared on the committee as well as today in their views, but also some have already mentioned them. [[…]] The first is that there is a claim that the project will be given a European dimension by the integration of the behind countries and that we are establishing an amber corridor, which is simply stupidity. The second track is in itself a project with a European dimension. This international or European dimension is guaranteed by the geostrategic importance of Luke Koper, not by the participation of the hinter countries or in any way. I don't think there's a single case in the European Union where one member would own everything, a railway line or a railway infrastructure in another member. Thus, all EU corridors are set up in such a way that, of course, sections of the national line are sections and so will the amber corridor. This is a complete deception, as the Ministry officials say. The same applies to the participation of the Länder, which is a condition for obtaining the EIB's credit and European funds. Nor is this true, the capital participation of the behind-the-countries is not a condition for obtaining funds on tenders and we have seen this recently. The Ministry applied for an EU call for a project, and that was possible at the time, so I don't know why it suddenly became a condition. Then let's move on. At the Ministry, they say that with the cooperation of the Western countries, we will also get very important back markets. In view of the fact that this coalition is very much in favour of this government, however, that the market is in fact free and regulated, this claim is also completely depressed. We know that Luka Koper is already the first port for Slovakia, Austria, Hungary and then not the new markets, these markets already exist and will simply increase with increased transport and transhipment in Luka Koper. It is not about new markets, it is practically a business model and competitiveness represented by Luka Koper in this area, which is already under way. Likewise, this pretense that we need Hungary to help us to better cooperate with other multi-urban countries and through mediation with Luka Koper is completely short of a rational judgment. [[…]] I'm going back to that EIB. The capital participation of other countries is not placed anywhere as a condition for obtaining credit from the European Investment Bank. We asked the ministers on the committee where these conditions are, whether this is actually formally written down, but of course he did not reply, because the answer is negative, and there is no such condition. Credit to the EIB may be obtained without the capital participation of another country. Then let's move on. What is possible is very important or crucial: the claim that the countries in question share the risks and the other thing is that the return is not guaranteed. It's just a little bit of a ruse again. The law clearly provides that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the operation of 2TKK will provide 8 million per year and, at the same time, introduces three new public benefits, with which three state-owned companies, namely DARS, Slovenian Railways and Luka Koper, will finance 2TKK and 2TKK will provide a minimum of EUR 24 million per year. At the same time, on the other hand, we have a draft investment laboratory, which assumes that in this way, in short, with this construction, 2DKK will achieve a 4.5% return on capital. There is another very important detail here that has probably been overlooked too often in these discussions, which is also in some way one type of 2TKK subsidy, and this is that 2TKK will not pay compensation for building rights on land. For example, we have a similar situation at Ljubljana Airport, where Fraport pays to use land infrastructure. Here, 2TKK will be exempt from this and will in fact be further subsidised if we look at it as a way to reduce the amounts to be paid for these building rights benefits. The problem is that it all shows that the government is not actually going into this project with some serious intention of completing it or bringing it to such a stage that it will abstain and also push itself forward to such a point as to be: A – of course the cheapest investment for citizens and citizens. In short, it forces a model of public partnership, which is more expensive because of this 4.5% return. Tonin also wondered whether it was a capital injection or a loan. We in the United Left argue that this is actually a loan; the loan that Hungary or any country that invests will get back with a very high return is 4 and a half. The second alternative is to be additionally indebted and the interest rates on our country's indebtedness are 2%. That way we can take a picture of what the difference is. And of course there's no need for that. The first thing is because the debt of 2TKK is already automatically included in the state sector, so we are at risk in any case. The other thing is that the financial picture is currently in Slovenia with the already mentioned 281 million, which we will be able to spend further in 2018 without violating fiscal rules, and so on, are signs that we can actually do this thing ourselves and, of course, the most expensive for those who pay taxes. So this is a few of these arguments that the Government has been stressing in recent times – this is what I wanted to reject. But I would have come to this point by now what we are proposing with our amendments. As I have already said in my position, this law also provides for very weak and, above all, non-democratic control of this project. Currently, the law provides for the appointment of five members of this so-called project finance council, proposed by four ministries and one representative coming from the so-called civil society. First of all, we do not know what this civil society is, who will be the proposer and where it will come from. The most absurd thing about it is that at the end of all five members he appoints a minister. The Minister of Infrastructure will appoint a Supervisory Board to oversee, and if I may say so, a project that belongs to his department. And that's completely absurd. Therefore, with the amendment, we propose that this world – the name of the same, project-financial council – be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. I think that this is a minimum of democratic hygiene, so to speak, if I say that this gap between the executive branch and the legislative branch is actually established, because we cannot leave this project only in the hands of the Government. However, we are changing the composition of the Council so that the Council will be composed of experts on the construction issue in five areas: construction, environmental protection, space, economics and law. One of the members will be the President of the Council, and the Ministry of Infrastructure will have to make a public call for members of the Council not later than one month after the entry into force of the law and forward the list of candidates to the National Assembly no later than one month after the closing of the public call. We also end up adding the provision that the project finance council will be up to 31 each year. 3. reports to the National Assembly on its work. This strengthens democratic control over the implementation of the project and introduces at least one minimum security guard into this law, which would allow at least part of the effort to monitor how this thing will take place. I would like to point out once again that this law is, in my opinion, quite too loose and at this point completely reckless, and therefore unnecessary for us to adopt it at this time. I agree with those who claim that this thing could have gone without it now, we can apply to European calls for proposals, also for the European Investment Bank's funds. The law should indeed serve to set some solid frameworks; in particular, when we talk about a project that weighs one billion, in particular the financial frameworks that would be most fully developed. That's what I miss about this marriage. I'm not in favor of overemphasis, but in such a law we should really be closed down – the financial structure is not closed. In his position, the Minister said that it was closed, but in fact we do not know if this deposit would come from foreign countries, we do not know how much the EIB loan will be, and so on. The law also makes it clear that the value of these amounts is up to 200 to 300 million. “Do” can mean half less. So once again, the law opens up a whole bunch of traps, opens up a whole bunch of questions, and I think that such projects cannot be implemented in this way, or at this stage it is not at all reasonable to rush into such a way and go into adopting such a law that is simply incomplete.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u127	It's still an interest in the debate, so please apply. Mr. Marjan Dolinšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Nice greetings, colleague, everyone you've been watching! Today we have heard a lot and even a few weeks ago many answers, many explanations, explanations and so on. It was written hugely around a nice second track, and I think there are very few open dilemmas that are crucial for this second track project. If we go back a little bit. This other track we've been spinning, talking about for 20 years. I don't know, but then there's the obvious that we want something fast. Yeah, we've taken this project seriously, we're not going to judge why it hasn't moved and moved. The important thing is that the thing is running, we have a law on the table, we have a bill on the second track, we have a bill on the project, and I think there's been too much damage done. Economic damage is a year-to-year potential, as is the case with Luke Koper. I am sure that Luka Koper would already have more long-term contracts today, if this second track were already in progress, but if it had been completed, I am sure and I want everything good, that is, this is of crucial importance for Luka Koper. Are we really not aware of this Luke Koper, which has a strategic significance — wider, not just for Slovenia? So after many years of laying down responsibilities, dragging, dragging and so on, we have now led to this point where we are today, and so many studies as have been done. We've heard the last 14 days in the media, how many studies, how much money are we going to be doing for how long? [[…]] Are we just going to work or are we going to move? I think it was quite clear from these studies that the mystery is gone. But I can't understand that they're coming forward today or a month ago with some new variants, I'm talking about technical implementations that turn everything upside down or whatever the project is, it sucks and we'd go into something new. This can happen every day — and what will we do? Nothing. We'll be arguing for the next 20 years. I think it's time to call the bean beans, collect the corn, and collect it, and make a move forward without stepping in. What does this second track mean? In a few points: it is about strengthening the country's strategic position, strengthening the economy and logistics. Then reducing the adverse effects and risks on the environment, enabling a more environmentally friendly mode of transport, a higher degree of transport safety. Here I also have in mind the transfer to a large extent from the roads of freight traffic to the Slovenian railways. Especially this corridor. What I have already mentioned, however, I think we all agree on what benefit this will have for only Luka Koper and also for Slovenian railways. Observations about the funding model. I don't know if 20 or, if I'm talking about independence, 25 years for various investments should be a single scale for different projects. Time is dynamic. I don't see anything wrong, just the opposite! This dispersion of various sources of funding, as defined in this project, I have been an entrepreneur for 33 years, this is something great. Let's leave the details. But imagine, do we want the basic guide that led to such a financial construction from different sources, this – alternatively – or do we want to burden Slovenian taxpayers, is it called Slovenian citizens and citizens, even with this? We already have a lot of other TER or TER 6. I think we are quite responsible that we have not gone into this option, although I cannot understand the responsibility of some who are very strongly advocating the need to build from budgetary resources. Yeah, who's gonna pay? From where? Tax collectors! That's not right. This was the main aspect of setting up such a financial structure as is ahead of us and from which we can understand. So the basic guide was not to burden taxpayers. Around the role of the frozen states. It's like power, we used to say. We know that in Europe, too, it is being packaged in one way or another. I think that this is again a good approach when we are talking and we will continue to talk both with Hungary and with the other behind countries, which have the same interest in building this second track. Which other neighbor of ours probably doesn't have that interest, on the contrary. Unfortunately, we need to look for alliances. I don't see anything wrong here again. These allegations that we do not need the frozen countries and so on, even in obtaining European funds, I am sure that this will have a significant difference in the importance it already has to the European institutions, when it comes to this second track, of building, as if they were entirely alone, Slovenia itself. [[…]] It is clear that all of these partner countries, we are talking about the behind countries and Hungary, that they will support this project because they have an interest and will also defend it and will also help in decisions on various institutions, commissions and so on, that this project will run to the extent that the project will be completed in the final stage. Some things, these negotiations with Hungary and the rest of the Western countries, are still open. But we can't have everything on the plate and on the table now, all finished, packed with a pen. That would be too easy. Anyone who's ever been into entrepreneurship has to get a little tactical sometimes, so we used to say. And we could go to the first ball when you're talking business and you're making deals. Why? Sometimes there's a little need to know the tactics. I don't think there's any bad side and no fear. Several times it has been clearly ensured that it is not a property entry into the port of Koper, or into the Slovenian railways, or anything else. Thus, nothing is sold out, it is said, we are not selling any Slovenian property. This should be stressed that citizens will understand that we are playing the right game. Now we're comparing it to TES. Yes, all the warnings are welcome, on the spot and so on, nothing is wrong, but so with such drive, it's just prejudicing, it's the other TES, even the amounts are already known, it's heard a little back, 2 billion 800 will be the final number. Interesting! But this is really interesting how some people can calculate everything. I think that the mechanisms that are also provided under this law, which we have on the table, allow for control, that financial supervision will be strong and that we will talk about this second track for a year and a half, and if we talk about this second track for a year at TES, I am sure that TES 6 would not happen. I'm sure! Of course, it's not a small amount of money, the whole project, and where there's little more money, there's always the possibility that there's a very strong interest and there's something else. But, as I pointed out earlier, the mechanisms in this case allow and are set to be controlled. I'm the first to have strong control over the entire investment at any moment, and I'm also sure it will. Whether we or anyone will be in this room, I think it will be a task to take over this in some sense, we have every right to be in this misery and also to exercise control. [[…]] It's the biggest state investment in the country. So the interest groups that come with different initiatives, ideas and so on, especially in the last month and month and half, I find it difficult to understand or understand because they all smell money normally. A live example, a specific example of interest groups or stakeholders, will be mentioned by AXIS, which was not selected in the call for an audit of the project which was launched by public publication, and from these circles, normally, great interests because they were not selected. But I take it normally – the fight for business, probably everyone has that interest. I am surprised, however, by the assessments and comments made by the Commission to prevent corruption led by President Stefanec. That surprises me a little bit. In fact, he's also written to all of us to stop what's going to happen and so on. He wrote in one part, in an official letter, “The Commission, due to the complete inadequacy of the procedure, addressed the proposals of the law and its irreconcilability, called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw.” But here I am wondering if we still need a parliament. At Tarca he even called, not only invited, he allowed himself to make an assessment of the emergency procedure, how the National Assembly allowed itself, Members and so on. And now I'm asking, who is Mr. Stefanec? Let KPK work with the President to deal with TES, there's a lot to do. Why does the Commission in the National Assembly have to deal with this, which was established? Only the shoes belong to the hooves, I'd call it. It's so extreme, it's extremely inappropriate. In addition, the Commission reiterates its deep concern over the number of legislative proposals that are being dealt with under the urgent procedure...” He went a little wider here, not just for this law. So he's been working on us a little bit, all of us, all of us. Let me serve with the next one. In accordance with the urgent procedure, 69 laws were in force in our mandate from September 2014 to today and 78 laws were in force between 2004 and 2007. For 2008, I don't have the data. I didn't get it this fast. So Pa would go in 2010, 2013 and that would be even worse. [[…]] And what's wrong with being treated? I guess there's a need. Apparently, there was a need, too, 2004-2008. Of course it was necessary. The then government considered that it was appropriate, due to circumstances such as these and others, to follow an urgent procedure. What's the problem? I wouldn't have seen anything from the government back then. Why? I mean, she's a judge of character. So I think that we've taken things a little too far, a lot of unreality, but I think we have to be so honest that we have to work so hard not to – colleague Ferlug mentioned it earlier – nothing has done and the second track has not started to build. Apparently, that's what all the clues show. To conclude, if we had something for Luca Koper and even broader, as I mentioned earlier, what this second track of good would bring, then such a marriage Any marriage could be better. [[…]] I already got this on the board that what we have on the table, that's it. No! No! Well, always hypothetically any marriage could have been even better. Everyone, not just this one. But this law is appropriate, it has its purpose for what it has been prepared for, and I hope that those who oppose it will also gather so much, I will say, sobriety – because I believe that some who oppose it will lead one moment, another moment, and it is also legitimate and also purely normal, because we are in a democratic world, exactly the same. But it's a big project, the biggest project in our country that will start after 20 years. This is a fact, a reality, and let us support it. Sam, normally, I'd be happy to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u129	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u130	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, including the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure! I have repeatedly stressed that I like the issues of economy, projects, infrastructure in some way when they appear on the agenda or on the committee or Parliament, because I find that we may be discussing too much in Parliament about topics that are not so important for some economic growth, the well-being of our country. I am so pleased in this respect that today, in some ways, the second track has also come into the parliamentary debate as a final solution. We had a bunch of extraordinary meetings, a placard, when we somehow called on this government, and the minister to finally move something, but today we are at this stage when we came into the cooperative phase of the project, which will have long-term positive effects for our country. Of course, at some point, I may be disappointed when in some debates we encounter the dissection of a project or even in this case of a law, not to say, with some arguments that sometimes are, I could say that someone is pulling them out of scarves. In fact, we are prisoners of some stories of Slovenia in the past, projects that may not be so honorable to us, but we must cut this bad practice and also trust ourselves in some way when we are embarking on new projects and when these projects enable us to develop Slovenia, develop infrastructure and thus the economy throughout Slovenia. As has been said, this government and also the minister have often been perceived as not doing enough to develop infrastructure. I must say that we have also repeatedly warned the Ministry of Finance that infrastructure projects are those that increase economic growth and that this initial belief of the Ministry of Finance can be reversed. In fact, today we are on this path to build projects that will have positive effects on all of us in the long run. I also remember the discussions in this Chamber, when we were sort of limiting ourselves, referring to fiscal constraints and so on. I think that the view of the economy needs to be optimistic for smooth investment cycles and that the basis of any economic development is infrastructure projects that enable this development. However, I must say that, of course, all the governments so far have made such and different efforts that have never produced success. This project has been going on for 20 years, and I don't know if they've been preparing these projects in their pocket, but they never analyzed it. Thus, the Mira Cerar government has cut off this bad practice, moved from some ideas to action, and today we are here to enable this project to be realized by this law. I think that this is an important project, including a specific project approach to this realization of this second track project, and we can say that this is an example of good teamwork practice, including the innovative approach of a team of experts who have joined together, from construction workers, economic experts and individuals who have experience in projects. Of course, I think it is with this law – someone will say why it is necessary to adopt the law. Of course, a number of bad practices from the past, which have in some way contaminated us with some pessimism, that we can no longer do anything, we are doing it with some fear, I think that it is also possible for this reason to establish in Parliament a framework within which this project will be implemented, and that it will take place in the way we all want, and that the financial structure envisaged in this law will be carried out as soon as possible. As far as the various stakeholders involved in this project are concerned, of course, I have to defend the legislation and the drafter again, I think the lawmaker, this is the Ministry, that this is a dispersed risk and a financial structure involving different stakeholders. It would be simple to say, of course, to build this, to get the money from the budget, to commit ourselves and, of course, to prevent the other many projects that are still ahead of us. So I think that this solution, which includes Luke Koper, which, of course, will have the greatest benefit, including truck operators, and then sources from European sources, is the Juncker Fund and the European Investment Bank. This is actually a diversified financial structure that will allow other infrastructure projects in Slovenia to be implemented in the future. As Slovenia has already achieved economic growth, we must not stop here, we must develop all regions in Slovenia evenly. Of course, I will also touch the third development axis here, because if the second track were to be built solely from budgetary resources, we would be in debt and would not be able to carry out other infrastructure projects that are still ahead of us. In this way, the law will also allow for a balanced development of Slovenia and will also allow the development of all the provinces in Slovenia in the same way through the construction of many other infrastructure projects, perhaps in a similar model. If I finish. Of course, I think that the law is an appropriate way to approach the implementation of this project, in order to allow the European funds already mentioned by the Juncker Fund to be drawn up, and that, in addition to allowing for the integration of the behind countries, the solution itself and also the law to be integrated in Europe. We have before us discussions on what this Europe, Europe of two speeds will be like, and I think that this project can also be one example of good practice, to join the countries that are connecting, whose goal is to become leaders in the European Union, and not to be excluded and not to associate with neighbouring countries. As I mentioned earlier, it is also true that all stakeholders, including the railway, Luka Koper, will be involved in the project, and that they will also be linked in some way to the financing of this project and that, in addition to the positive effects that this project will bring to these companies, they will also contribute to the construction of this project with their share. That's how I support this law. Once again, it is a project that is an example of good practice and that this Gordi knot is finally cut off and that the government of Mir Cerar under the leadership of Minister Gasperšić and the team has shown the wealth, power, knowledge that this project is being implemented as soon as possible and that we are also going through a similar model of infrastructure projects ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u131	Mr. Ljubo Žnidar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that I support the development of the state rail infrastructure and, of course, the envisaged construction of the second track planned. However, at the very beginning of this investment, I am disturbed by the very way we approach this biggest investment, as there are many questions that are not the product of some practice in the past, because in Slovenia we have built a lot of difficult construction projects on the highway section – the example of Trojana, where it was difficult to build, much more difficult geological conditions than in this area of Crassa, where the second track would be built, and we have not adopted any special law, and we have not adopted or established any special society for those few kilometres, because we have done this project exclusively with expertise, but not with such broad stakeholders as we will in the safest, economical and careful way to make this investment. If I think back to TER 6, which somehow draws me to this parallel thinking, I could say that when we go to the biggest project in such a way with the utmost attention and care that it will not be wrong, then this project will certainly be completely – not to say what. Of course, I do not support this law in such a form as it is, at all, that this law is unnecessary, because it is to a large extent an exception to the system regime in the management of the state rail network. The newly established company 2TKK is a concessionary who manages 27 kilometres of newly built track. In Slovenia we have a thousand 200 kilometres of railway lines, and for only 27 kilometers we have a company established, we have a concessionaire to manage it. That's what we're saying. We've taken 2% out of the system. This is a key step away from the system regime we have in the Republic of Slovenia when we talk about management of public rail infrastructure. As a builder, I look at the comparison of the Brenner tunnel. This is the largest railway tunnel in Europe since 2012 and will be completed in 2025 between Italy and Austria. There a consortium was established, they did not set up special companies, but they established consortia, and this consortium mainly accounted for 87.1% of the founders of the Austrian and Italian railways. This is said to be in the three-quarters share of the state railway. So Austrian and so Italian. The difference of up to 100% is local margins, which are also included in this area in this investment. A consortium has been established. This consortium had no difficulty in declaring any calls, as is the case here in the basic explanation of the bill prepared by the Government, stressing first that this is a golden rule and that we cannot go beyond this criterion to set up a new society and grant it a concession. That's not true! Consider a detailed example of the construction of the Brenner tunnel. There were also stakeholders in the European funds. Thus, this matter cannot be maintained, which is referred to in the very explanation of the bill itself. Further, I would say that in this company, 2TKK will be quite easy to work with. It will not be difficult for those responsible in this company to go to work, but they will not have much to worry about, because this law gives 2TKK no responsibility. There is absolutely no liability of 2TKK. It will lead this investment, the funds will be provided and, following the construction of this investment from 2025, 2TKK will receive a payment from the Republic of Slovenia for its availability. Approximately 35 million a year, if we calculate this for a concession period of 35 years, this amounts to a billion 225 million. This is said to mean that the entire investment will be reimbursed in this way; in short, the revenues will be provided and 2TDK will easily pay all the shareholders in the investment. That's what the law says. However, the key question to me is whether 2TKK will also pay to the State the share that the State will pay – this investment. That's not what this marriage is about. However, it requires the State to pay 2TKK at the time of the concession a billion 225 million. There's no such task in the marriage. I would say that both sides need to be looked at, that is to say, both responsible and other positive sides for society itself. Then on with the responsibility itself. In the event that 2TKK goes bankrupt, the law states very clearly and accurately that in this case it is a payer for the buildings and infrastructure of the State. It is said that here 2TKK has no responsibility, all its obligations to misbehave, for any financial irregularities, that in the event of no outcome, the company goes to bankruptcy, takes over by the state. The law does not govern the termination of the concession relationship with 2TKK when the concession is withdrawn or cancelled. Take, for example, that 2TKK does not act economically and that the State wants to withdraw the 2TKK concession, the law does not determine how and what. Consider the example of the law on concessions to exploit the energy potential of the lower Sava. How's it arranged there? Very precise, very precise, very specific. It is known how to act in this case, how the State will treat the concessionaire. This marriage doesn't talk about it. It is also a refocused liability on the State, not on 2TKK in the event of land transfer. Of course, that 2TKK could build, the State would transfer with a real and bonding right the land on which 2TKK would build a second track. The law does not say how 2TKK will transfer these land back to its own country after the end of the concession. Of course, I am also referring to those additional lands that have not yet been bought or bought today and will still have to be purchased by 2TKK. This is not the answer in this law – even one open question that is not solved in this part. There is a great deal of talk about value and the prices of the second track project. I know that the price, where technical documentation is produced only at the PGD level, is a real project to obtain a building permit, is very difficult to determine, but in the building permit is given a solution that is expensive at this point compared to what we get from this project. Let's build one tunnel with one track and make a service, security trench. And that costs us at the end there about a billion 400, and we get one track. If I look at the section of one track where the train is driving in the tunnel, it's 70 square meters. But the intersection of the safety tunnel is 42 square meters. It's very close to the full profile. But in the building permit, we didn't think so much that we would go to another security tunnel to work in the full profile and to point out in the future the establishment of another track. Then security would not be a problem, because we would actually have two tunnels and we would also provide this security with interconnections. That is to say, we now have in the building permit a solution that is expensive, but for this high price we get very little or at this moment only one track. And that's the problem. Of course, they come on the basis of these estimates of the very value of the new solution, if there is a large financial difference, it is also worth giving other solutions to the scale, especially if these differences are somewhere between 300 and 400 million in this investment. But they are obvious, I believe that new technologies are increasingly cheaper than old technologies, because they are modern and, in fact, with new technologies, we are introducing cheaper solutions. I'd say the answers or somehow the coalition's comments are that if we go looking for new options, then we go back to the beginning. Yes, in some cases it does, but look, as partial as we adopt this law for this or as we have adopted Yaskawa on Ptuj and so on, I ask myself whether it makes sense for the spatial part of any new option to adopt a special law, and in one year we can save it. We put it on the scale: we adopt a law to adopt one specific spatial limit, or we save 300 to 400 million there. Now let's put this on the scale. Are we capable of doing this, or is that worth it? In what financial condition our country is in, it is my personal opinion that this is absolutely worth it. So I would say that these coalition notes, to get back to square one, of course, can't hold if we put time and money into comparison or weight. I also continue to absolutely support that if something is being built, it is building with a focus on the future. This section is also designed to be built for a speed of 160 kilometers per hour. And here's the big question. In 2025 this section of the second track will be built. There's going to be a train going 160 kilometers an hour, and I'm wondering if there's going to be another mile of road in Slovenia where the train can drive 160 kilometers an hour? In 2025! I don't know. That's my question, of course, to this question of mine, I didn't get an answer to how many miles of rail lines are going to be able to drive 160 kilometers an hour in 2025. That's a big professional question. I don't know if there's anywhere else in Slovenia. I don't know. I didn't get any answers. If that were possible, you'd probably get that answer on the table today. These statements of the coalition, it's an emergency procedure, we're in a great hurry to apply for the invitation and so on and so on. Look, these arguments don't hold up either. Last year, we proposed two laws in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. That was April last year, that is to say, a year ago we proposed two laws. The first law is the Law on the Construction of Transport Infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of transport infrastructure, which gives an explicit advantage to the selection of railway projects in the Republic of Slovenia, with the exception of the second track. We summarised the selection according to the transport development strategy, which was made 29. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We have summarized the most up-to-date document, the transport development strategy, which I think is a good document, provides clear frameworks for what we want in the future in the transport field. After this strategy, we have also summarised the pool itself. In short, the law determines how and by what priority transport infrastructure will be built in the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, construction is not without funding and a law on the provision of funds for investment in transport infrastructure has been tabled at the same time. That's the point. If you want to build something, you also need a financial component, and this law provides the means to build transport infrastructure. This is an annual envelope of 500 million. If we say how the division between rail work and road work, if I estimate, in 2017 there are about 170 million in the budget for road work there. Well, if we say they need more roads, we can say 200 to 220 million there. That is to say, the rest or, if I say even more about the reserve, half, that is 250 million, could be used annually for the construction of railway infrastructure. A dedicated part of the funds each year. What's the pattern of second-track payments? If we divide this cost into 7 years, the annual cost of building a second track is somewhere between 150 million and 210 million a year, depending on the dynamics of the progress of construction works. This is said, in the framework of our proposal, which we put on the table last April; by providing funds that are earmarked, with annual road transport charges, then the concession fees of Luke Koper, also from the profits of companies that are majority owned in the country, and also from excise duties on energy. In short, then there are six further examples of how to provide this dedicated resource. This would make the Slovenian construction operation permanent, as the funds would be provided continuously, not such fluctuations, would not have such ups and downs, not fallings, but failed construction companies, as we have in the country today, in the Republic of Slovenia. In short, it is a solution that has been rejected by the majority, because from a professional point of view the coalition has supported both of these laws, but because it is a proposal from the opposition, both laws have been voted out by the majority, and these are solutions that are good solutions, which today would be a step forward in the construction of the second track, and the criticism of the coalition – the timing moment. Last year, the Ministry applied for a European call. It was already known in advance that this application would be unsuccessful, so that all that work of officials was in vain because the financial structure was not completed. Even this financial structure, of course, is not yet completed today. The question, the dilemma, the failure to answer is a pile, and as a result, of course, such a law cannot be supported at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u133	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u134	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues! Something about another track that hasn't been told. At the meetings of the Infrastructure Committee, we have talked about it many times, and now some debates in terms of not talking too much about having too little time are somehow incorrect in this regard. Today, it was actually a question of whether there is anyone in this hall who does not support this track. Of course it was all quiet. I say so, the second track has supporters and has those so-called "butlers". That's the kind of supporters that say whenever you need them, but I'd say otherwise. I do not want to deprive anyone of the right to have certain concerns, and I do not require anyone to raise his hand for any matter, but in the course of the debate on this law there have been many misgivings, many political statements that have no other purpose than a bare reckoning, I believe, in the light of some coming more or less near elections. And I'm going to make a lot of definitions. Unfortunately, the system is such that someone always talks after 20 minutes. It would be nice to have people answer all the questions, perhaps get a better picture of what is really problematic, what is not, and that they can pour some pure wine to all of us and everyone else. Today, it has often been heard that the procedure is inappropriate because it follows an urgent procedure. I will not defend the urgent procedure; the circumstances are such that this has been given to us, the college has decided on this, I understand this reason that the invitation to tender is taking place in July and that the law needs to be adopted as a result of this call, but all those who have severe problems with this urgent procedure, I must remind them that we have already adopted many laws following an urgent procedure, but perhaps the laws were even less important than this and some were even more important. But since we've talked about this matter many times before, I believe no one is deprived of any information. On the Infrastructure Committee, we spoke at, according to my information, an 18th emergency meeting, at the 30th emergency meeting, at the 49th emergency meeting. These are meetings held from 2015 to 2017. For example, with the title Loss of business of Luke Koper and the need to build a second track, The issue of financing and the construction of the second rail track of Divača-Koper; in short, it has repeatedly stressed this urgency, how urgently we need to build a second track, it has been pressured on the ministry, it has been concluded that things need to be moved from a dead point – this has been acknowledged by everyone that this project is at a dead point – and now that it is moving forward, we hear a whole lot of readings. The first is that there should not be an emergency procedure, but by some long, regular procedure, and then that this project represents an increase in the risk of corruption, whatever we can explain under this. In this regard, I would say something that I have already said, and if I have to, I will repeat it five more times. This second track in this huge amount will not be built during the time of this government's mandate. Certain preparatory work can be done, but most of these work will be carried out in other mandates. Today, in this sense of warning me about corruption, and I don't know what's surprising is that those who, I don't know, maybe even on the basis of some public opinion polls, say they're going to steal at the second track. But they'll be in power! The law, however, is designed to fit the proper ministry, although some now tell us that some companies that are separate from the ministry should, in short, be in the direction of SDH. Personally, I would prefer to have the Minister behind such a project, and possibly as few people as possible. You know what that saying is: 100 grandmothers, a bald child. Everyone likes to talk to someone else, I want to know exactly who, when, when, when to knock on the sleeve. What is very interesting about this project is that today we have heard that this funding system is somehow innovative and similar. [[…]] A colleague named Žnidar said that he was being asked a number of questions because it was some way out of the system. We know how she was in the past. Such that prices went up abnormally at the time of construction, no sooner than before, everything was fine, everyone nodded before, after they started building, but the construction costs usually increased abnormally or the case was going in the way TES 6, where there was also work outside the policy radars, probably on purpose, outside the public procurement radars, some regulated public procurement system, which is why we are still threatened today that the guarantee will ever be cashed out or that the cost of all that was financed there will be borne by taxpayers. In all this debate about the second track, I am particularly fond of this, because the law is impeccable, that it does not even know whether or not the second track is going to be. I have to be honest with the citizens here, this government has not been setting up this second track. This project has a long beard and one of the most important documents is the state location plan, if I find it now – it is said, the Regulation on the State Location Plan for the second rail track at the Divača-Koper section. This is a document that was produced in 2005 and which defines in its sixth article in kind of a rough course and the essence of this track and this project. Thus, it was already in 2005, on the track of the second track of the railway connection, the planned construction of eight tunnels, the route of the track follows the following tunnels – so on and on – the dimensions, the portals of the tunnel, in short all dimensions, all these construction parameters, the bridge crossings, the deviation of roads, the other arrangements on the road network. In this act, the route and the project itself are very specific. Since this is an act that was adopted in 2005, and we all know which government was in power at the time, I wonder again why everyone today is wondering why the limit is, why the speed is going to be 160 kilometers per hour, why only one tunnel is meant to drive and why it is, and why. But everything was actually arranged in the grave by then. There are indeed doubts today whether to build two pipes or, I don't know, because of me three, but we do see or probably all agree that the main concerns in addition to those that are substantially less justified are how to finance the matter. At the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, we also heard the Director of Slovenian Railways supporting this project. He told us about the train transshipment, saying that the average number of trains is only March 93 on this section, but that by building a new track it is possible to transport 200 trains a day after that section. In short, with this new section, even if it is only one track, the actual capacity doubles, so that it is not some negligible information in this sense, that it is completely illogical, that only one track is being built, but it is entirely in place, that you also think about that service tunnel which is supposed to be such an extent that once it is necessary or when we have money, another line is being built through such a pipe. Indeed, the strangest concerns of those who participated at the time in placing this project in planning are indeed in dimensioning. They're the loudest today, and they're wondering how it is and how it is. What is interesting about this project is that we have some special types of civil initiatives. I agree with civil initiatives, although, for example, on the Infrastructure Committee, we observe that in each project that the State is planning, there are two or three civil initiatives that point to certain things, usually more or less nature-friendly, and that the mother is specific. Here, however, we have a civil initiative involving various professors, highly educated people, to observe that they are not united among themselves. They put on a sounding name for civil control, something similar, but it is notice that everyone is already connected in one way or another to either the project itself, or to Luka Koper, which is one of the main reasons why this project must take place as soon as possible, or that it is a matter of desire or interest to build a new track that would bring the matter back to the fore, with some new technologies that someone would, of course, deserve. So in this project, we have civil initiatives that are not civil initiatives that protect the interests of all citizens, but protect some of their interests that have a basis involved in what kind of earnings, but are obviously so represented in the media that their voice at the end of the day, I think, gets almost the same weight as the voice of all of us who decide on this matter. It would be fair for anyone who has a civil initiative that represents it to say whether he has ever been associated with this project or whether he intends to receive or has received any payment. We have not been given all of this, but we have been paid or the ministry has been particularly affected, a number of criticisms, how untransparent it is, how it forms a basis for corruption. I don't believe that we will ever fully agree in this project, and I don't want to. It would be right, however, that all the debates are constructive in order to be amended by law with some important issues that answer certain questions, not just because we have amendments, that we can discuss them, because otherwise there would be no debate. In view of the fact that the next year is the elections, it would be appropriate for each party to tell what it will do with the project next year. By then, there will be no significant damage to the development of events because it will not begin to spin because there will be some further preparatory work in progress. Let the customers say nicely whether they will insist on a project like this, or whether they will stop it because I believe that some would stop it, or whether they will try to hang all the funding for taxpayers. I don't agree with this kind of funding. I think Luka Koper has to cooperate. Despite the fact that this project is long-term to represent some kind of strategic link, not only for freight, but also for passenger traffic between western and central parts of Slovenia, we need to know that some of the necessity after the project was actually created due to the operation of Luka Koper, and it is right that it is also engaged and is active in the implementation of this project. I'm afraid we haven't witnessed this before, but we've always had some initiatives. I think that today, at political level, the United Left is in the sense that all other possible forms of funding must be removed and the project fully embedded in the shoulders of taxpayers, with all these concerns already expressed by this financial projection; therefore, this is dispersed. So in any case, this investment will be a relatively large asset. I do not have any problems with the law itself, I think it is well written to identify or answer all the essential questions; it answers the role of this 2TKK company, answers questions about who will be the people sitting there, what will be the control over them, what funding will be. However, I am not saying that this law may not ever be necessary to change in any part of it, but I am sure that it does not open up to anyone, not to anyone, nor to those who will sit in the coming governments, gives no pause to want or to benefit from this project in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. László Göncz. Let Mr. Ivan Škodnik prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dearly beloved present, lovely greeting in my name too! Let me start where the speaker ends. The issue of the law on this type of project may be questionable, but it may not. Given the importance of this project, from a broader chronological perspective, I think it may be right that such a matter is regulated by law. But I also agree with those critics who say that with some comprehensive system law, perhaps even such words can be avoided, but let's leave it. I don't think it's necessary to ask questions at this stage, whether we need another track or not. I believe that there is at least this consensus in the country, and I have not seen in the past weeks, months of such speakers who would have objected to this project in any way. I myself believe that this project is a strategic project, the country's largest strategic project at the moment, but unfortunately it is very late. He is late for various reasons and, as the speakers have just pointed out before me, it would be pointless today to discuss why such delays have occurred. I certainly welcome the fact that this government has now decided to take a concrete step towards the resolution and implementation of this programme. Probably the solutions proposed are not ideal, probably these solutions will have to be upgraded very quickly, too, but at this point it should certainly be welcomed that this has happened at all. I have also had opinions and opinions, so in some decisions I have abstained that perhaps the procedure itself as an emergency procedure is not the most appropriate for such a matter, but we are already in the stage where there is no point in talking about it. With regard to the dilemma surrounding the financial structure that has already emerged in various implementations today, I would also say that, given the specificity and circumstances of this project, it is unlikely that the financial structure would be fully completed. I believe that this is virtually impossible because there are also some substantive issues, indeed, the issues of the actual input of investors and supporters of this project are still open, so it has not been possible to fully implement the financial structure until now. However, the prescribed form of public-public partnership is certainly an acceptable option for me too, although to some extent a kind of sui generis, if I express myself a little under the RTV law, but I think it is reasonable to think about it, and also those reflections that came from European institutions have an effect on the hope that, theoretically speaking, at least theoretically, this approach is wrong. Of course there are risks, that's for sure. I also understand that part of the public, as well as the policies that have a lot of questions here, I have a lot of questions myself, which also open up to me in view of our bad practices in various projects, not to mention all of them now, but most of the time we all think about TES6. There are also dilemmas that Mr Žnidar mentioned a little while ago in relation to a comparison with the Brenner project, although it is difficult to compare, if we are very honest, because it is about once again such a big project as the lengths of the project are even more demanding, so the two tracks are there, there is an investment of about 6 billion there, and some at this point, at least such information is available. In short, it is also difficult to compare with this project, but perhaps we can learn something from the work already done there from the actual approach to the implementation of the project itself. I also agree with the Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee that we are practically changing banking laws, I will be a little exaggerating, a week or a month. It is probably not expected that we will not change this law or that our successors will not change here. I don't see much trouble in that either. In short, there are risks, there are dilemmas, but I think there is no going back and that is why this law needs to be supported at this stage. Now, another thing that appears here most often also as questions or as an open matter is the wider cooperation of the hinter countries and some form of an interstate project. I believe that this would be necessary to welcome this part of Europe rather than to challenge it. So, if we think of Europe as both European integration and European cooperation as something promising and positive, then these questions are, to me, very much questionable and risky. In particular, for the reason that we also intend to have a central European transport and freight corridor, which was adopted somewhere last year, between the countries of Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia, and is supported by the European Commission a few months later. So if we are thinking about this context, and if we are aware that a very important article or an element of this corridor is also this route between Divisco and Koper, then I think that such questions can be very unwelcome and also irrelevant. However, as regards Hungary's participation in this project, I would like to point out that I am not here as a representative of Hungary, without anyone's understanding me, but because I am involved in bilateral relations between Hungary and Slovenia as a member of the national community, I have been looking into today's information from the Hungarian government – that is, from today – what is the interest in this case of Hungary. I can tell you the following – and this has not been highlighted, because somewhere I also challenge those who are critics, but Hungary's approach to this project. Hungary has made a clear statement, and today it also declares – I say that I am not defending Hungarian interests, but I am simply saying that it does not want any cooperation and does not want any such element or contribution to this project, which is contrary to Slovenia's national interest. This is a clearly expressed position of the Hungarian government. From today. First time. Another time. Hungary does not want any share in Luka Koper. It wants, as has been pointed out, the participation of Hungarian companies in construction, but not automatically, but mainly on or on the basis of some healthy competitiveness. And, of course, Hungary certainly expects a long-term option to use luka infrastructure, which is also important and understandable from the point of view because Hungary is performing here with a capital injection rather than with a loan. So, some of these comparisons with 4.5% interest can't hold up because it's just sort of, I'll say, an imaginary number that no one stands for and, of course, this will also be a matter of bilateral relations between Hungary and Slovenia and these things are still going on. In short, I think that not only Hungary's cooperation is welcome here, but it would also be important to have Slovakia's cooperation, possibly the southern part of Poland, because otherwise it is very important for Slovenia, but it is also important for the icy countries, to which Luka Koper is a very important exit to the sea. In particular, this interest is also on the part of Hungary and probably other outlying countries. At this stage, I will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Škodnik has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, government representatives, colleagues and fellow Members! First, I would stop at the amendments that were put in place, and the debate was supposed to be here, but not just for that. The amendment, which has somehow been proposed in the United Left, of course I will not support, nor the amendment proposed by the SDS, especially for these reasons, because these solutions are inadequate and non-systemic. Here I might initially compare this second track investment with the third development axis, not because I'm from Koroška, because the third development axis concerns me, but some things have in common. In fact, this government has moved things forward both on the third development axis and on the second track, and I hope that today we will also confirm this matter here. What do I see? See, this case has been going on for more than 20 years, both the second track project and the third development axis. If I stop at the third developmental axis, there were countless reasons why things weren't being built. Of course, to all the governments that were before this government, it was good because things were moving, the money could have gone elsewhere. This last version, which the Government confirmed a long time ago, from the direction of Šentrupert to Velenje, which also connects the Upper Savinja Valley, has received numerous criticisms and things, I hope they are now calming down. There was a talk about why the route was to the best lands. But then when I found out what five, six routes were, it's all over the land. But that was just an excuse. But then somehow the money was here, and I'm not going to say they have it ready, but the financier is famous, that's Dars. And I'm glad that the financier is here, Dars, and there are other performers on the second track, of course. If I were the same contractor, I'd say that's probably not going to work together because the money's going to run out. This is another thing that certainly has a promising effect on taxpayers, and it is right that this matter is so dispersed. I'd agree with my predecessor, Comrade Žnidar, when he said we'd only get a few miles of railroad where the speed would be 100 miles an hour. I would love to — so we have to get these things through so that we can have at least one hundred miles [160 km] of distance. I hope then that in the coming years, as well as the next governments, it has been said that this second track will not be built at this time, in this mandate of this government, but certainly in the next term. That's clear, but things have to move on. I hope that then, in the coming mandates, we will still be receiving cuts where trains may be able to drive at an even higher speed. Even with my colleague Shirtzlj, who I had listened to before, who was kind of discussing at the beginning and touched on things, why we are funding this second track from the budget. Of course, if we only financed him from the budget, I would tell him right away, okay, that's something abnormal. But if one part of the budget, the other part from other sources and so on, it is essential that we adopt the law if there are any calls and that we can apply for European money, it is normal. And anyone who applies at home — if you have a home, there is also a young farmer or farm taker who also has to apply for funds, and if he is late, he does not get the money. It is only right that some things move more quickly and follow an urgent procedure. Then it's about the law, why things have to be regulated by the law. I have very good experience with the law on the Pomur region, which was adopted years ago, and how good it has done, how many new jobs have come. We have to take such things, not that the law is unnecessary. But a lot of times, it's the law that saves things faster. See, this second track project is not only regional, it is an all-Slovenian project with international dimensions. We can say that this second track has a European dimension. That is why they are different financiers. Of course, if I were to be delayed, see if any additional annual delay in the construction would result in additional damage or damage. It is right that this government has decided and begun to regulate the matter and that things have moved forward. What does the realisation of this project really mean? This is to strengthen the country's strategic position, to strengthen the economy and logistics in this part of Europe, if I say so, to reduce the harmful effects on environmental risk, fire safety, less noise and so on. All these things will come to light later, and we may not even be talking about this right now. There will be a more friendly mode of transport around the environment, roads will be less burdened, I think everyone can confirm that in the part where this railway will be freed and roads will certainly be better in this area. Traffic safety will also be greater. Finally, the driving time will be reduced on this part of Slovenia, from Kopra to Divaca. I'm sure these things will work, too. As for the sources of funding, as I mentioned at the outset, it is an advantage and I see that the project will succeed. This is a combination of various financial resources in order to minimise the burden on taxpayers. That's understandable. I wouldn't go into more detail right now, maybe that much. How much will actually be from the budget? There are about 200 million, a quarter, around 250 million European grants available, and we are planning 300 million then with debt, of course with European investment banks, and then there are other investors or co-investors who will definitely join. I think that this way is significantly different and we cannot compare it with the TES when there were so many speeches in this Chamber and earlier on the committee, because there are, however, two projects that differ substantially from each other, we cannot compare them because the financial structure of the second track itself is based on the objective of reducing the burden of taxpayers. [[…]] I think you all agree with that. For these reasons, because I see some progress in the area of infrastructure, of course I have supported this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's interesting to hear this, I admit, certainly, although I'm almost tired of talking about it. Look, I'm gonna start like this. Like some of you, yesterday I received from the journal Work e-mail at the week of the book to answer them, which book I last read, which made the best impression on me and which book I would suggest to all of you. You will learn the first two in the newspaper, and I would suggest to all of you in reading the book Giovanni Arrighi For a long 20th century, entitled Capitalism, power and money. I believe that in Hungary someone has read this book thoroughly. Why? Because after 25 years – let us leave aside my attitude towards capitalism, which I think is that we should kill it – we do not understand capitalism, which is not the last thing we see in all these stories, where we could even agree with the SMC in part. Tomorrow we're going to have a meeting about Mercator, and some people are joking about it before he opens Mercator Stacuna; there's no telling who was in an office on August 12, 2005, and so on. Second, usually TEM 6 is mentioned, or it is referred to as two key affairs. In history, the relatively young Slovenian democracy, which slowly rises against Christ’s years, is usually referred to as an arms affair and TES 6. It seems to me that some other two affairs coming from this book are more important. The first affair is denationalisation, then Mr Peterle, when the foreign instructors of the day convinced the government of such denationalisation that even a much richer Germany could not afford it, and the second affair is, of course, an affair of a bank hole that now vomits out in various estimates and we have in this affair a double-edged hole to Kopra perhaps – or possibly – some tunnel to the White Country and more. What is the key tragedy beyond that? I'm lucky, of course, that you can't drag me into any of this, I'll be honest with you, and shit at the expense of the generations that are coming, and even those who have built this Slovenia have too low pensions. The problem is that somehow those of the same people who have the right to vote will be re-elected and, unfortunately, we will also re-elect you as part of the SMC; to a great tragedy – not me. Mate Matthew said it was a simple bluff, I'd say otherwise, it's actually a dangerous bluff, and it's from a party that has a whole bunch of lawyers in it. And I'd like to say, look, this is a good marriage, great, I support it. After all, we are all for this second track; I started my scientific career there officially in 1994 and worked in Cyprus 2020 in 1994-1998 and I was there effectively 70, 80 days a year. Back then, it was about the advantages of Luke Koper up and down, and it would be a quarter of a century later, and I'd grown very old in the middle, and we wouldn't really have another track yet. Mr Zorčič said, some obvious increase in the risk of corruption. You know, we don't get a thing in the United Left. For the purchase of the fence they forged documents – today writes Mrs Meta Roglič in Dnevnik, who has attempted to investigate this. Look, a 15km airline from my apartment should have already stepped down in Austria. As a result, most of what the SMC sells as obvious, obvious, obvious, is purely normal parliamentary work, which I, of course, have to do as an opposition Member. What was brought into the byte is essentially part of the homework. Nomotechnically poorly written one of the possible scenarios. Let's move on. It's obvious to us that we want to turn this on the backs of taxpayers. What's the difference? All the difference is between one of our own, and your proposal is only in the 200 million that we wouldn't be blinded by more expensive money if I put it that way. And you're a member of the ALDE, if I'm not mistaken. Why shouldn't taxpayers make money here, my dear gentlemen? We have a few billion in banks that are very poorly invested. Maybe a professor from the Faculty of Economics shows up too often, maybe there should be a little bit of tact there, and sometimes someone else should be sent to say something. But why don't we do it the way it's done and it's verified? Through bonds, 10-year-olds, 15-year-olds, 20-year-olds, with some interest rate higher than that of some money lying there essentially like dead capital – we are still talking about capitalism – to the satisfaction of those citizens and citizens who can afford it, with the addition of smart taxation – that I will not then hit them on the head – and would actually make a cheaper blending, which would actually make less debt from abroad, you know. And that's what I have to tell you and teach you. You'll say, yes, those crazy, united leftists and some sociologists who've never done anything before and so forth. But Marjan's daughter was reading this book because she was my student, and she knows about it. Good student, by the way. Maybe we should teach this coalition. It is very broad in essence about everything that is alive, and it is basically meant to debate our amendment, which is actually trying to regulate only what you all are warning about: that this project has good control. And now that Mr Zorčič, Chairman-in-Office of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, has actually written down or said that the Minister and as few people as possible, I am, frankly, somewhat appalled. And when some basic proposal of this law on this control of the so-called project finance council was written that only people would sit there in this world, state bureaucrats from ministries, and I also have an affirmative opinion on many of them, and none of civil society, then it was a little too much pressure, and you wrote "and one member from civil society". And you take that as control. I'm sorry, gentlemen, this is kind of out of control. And especially in the light, as you like to point out – because we understand, now the SMC wants to plug the shovel. And I find the metaphor of the shovel a little strange here. Here, fellow Rajić could teach his client, because we probably will not be shoveling this second track, but how much we have already blabbered about him, we would probably have eaten at least a little flicha already with this and would have been somehow cheaper. In short, all this story, all this exaggeration, some fellow I appreciate, says we leave the details. But it's just the details. For details, we have suffered a headache too many times in this society and country. And it's also a policy of principle if you want. In the opinion, for example, the Social Democrats said that if I quote Mr. Han, "...but the Minister and his thinking is such that they can build with a public-private partnership" but listen, "private in such a way that Luke is involved and railways are included. I'm so into it." Now I don't know how this coalition keeps grinding, like it's grinding, and it's probably going to crush this story, so to speak, awkwardly to the end. There was talk of strategicity, there was talk of tactics. I have said several times that a closed session should be closed on the second track, and perhaps even more openly on some matters, including a visit to some foreign interested parties. In fact, it is very clear to everyone who knows a little about this that two of the four neighbouring countries are very interested in building this second track as late as possible, and one third would not have had anything against it. These matters should be understood when we are essentially discussing them. If I look at one of the last decades and the events around the infrastructure and even around the bank hole, I can say, let's be afraid in Slovenia of Jazbeks and snakes. And we're a small country enough to let you know what I've just said, and I hope that I have said enough that the MVK will not discuss the withdrawal of my immunity as a Member. To round off the fact that I will not actually be too long, because I will say, this debate is pretty empty in some two key areas, and it's not serious. Thus, in the area of finance, financing what I have given or have given some two solutions, two scenarios on how this can be achieved with cheaper money, especially if we look at it in the light of what they say in Luka Koper herself, the Chief Finance Minister has been here for the next 30, 35 years after the conservative scenario from Luka Koper to receive a billion euros, unreservedly meant in this calculation, through concession and dividends, and we now do not know how to pack this story. More and more, it seems to me that you do not want to pack it up like this because of some arrangements, things that will have to deal with, or will have a headache from some other government, in which, I seriously hope, the United Left, because in fact, it is about time for a new policy to come that will not be what we've been looking at for for a quarter of a century. I will say myself that I would have no objection to the fact that there would also be one, if you wanted, right conservative party of the 21st century, who would also be seriously involved in money and public finances, because I can honestly say that so far there is no one, which is in fact more than visible and from the state in this country and from the history of our democracy. That's kind of it. Now we're reading some closures, we're reading some kind of hatred for Hungary! Far from it! It is well known who put Slovenia in the fence, we are only taking our work seriously and as long as we live in capitalism, we are also seriously analysing it, we are trying to understand it, we are also working in it, and we are also dealing with the cost of money and the welfare of citizens and citizens, or all who are found at the spatial aggregation called Slovenia. And in fact, from what you say, what you propose in marriage, what solutions you propose, you're basically denying yourself right now, and it's also about time that those who listen to us start acting and thinking a little bit less with their hearts and a little bit more with their brains and some basic logic. This story is going to be kind of driven forward. The committee said that this law was essentially adopted as a negotiating basis. But I'm actually gonna stop here because I don't want to put up with any rude words. Anyone who has a little bit of a mind, or if it's a stalemate, will in fact probably understand what I mean by that. Thank you for your word. I need to save some time for the replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Minister Peter Gasperšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I would like to take a call now because a number of questions have come up, and I think there is still a lot to answer. If I do it in a sort of order, just like the questions were asked. From the beginning, it was a question of how many investment laboratories we have, what is the profitability, what is the economy, what is the reverse tax burden, why we need this law, how this is linked to this Juncker fund, what is the impact on public debt and deficit and so on. I'd kind of go in a row. With regard to the number of investment laboratories themselves, I can say that we have produced two so far; the first was in December 2016, which contained even more variants of possible funding and then the possibilities of public-private partnership were processed there, and then purely budgetary funding, and this proposal, which was later in a second version in January 2017, was introduced by the Government and then proposed to finance through the capital cooperation of the Länder. I can say that it was made on conservative assumptions and is, in our opinion, also realistic, which is also checked by the European institutions, which is, of course, the European Commission itself, their expert body, JASPERS and the European Investment Bank. With them, we need to prove, justify, and thus prove that these figures are credible — both from the investment value itself and from the assumptions themselves about income, remuneration and so on. Of course, it is not yet complete because we know that the financial resources themselves and the conditions under which they would acquire – that is, both the loan and the grants – are not yet known. These resources, these decisions for the European funds allocated, will still be obtained. It is also necessary to specify the conditions of this financial contribution with the European Investment Bank, and once these matters are precisely defined, a final investment laboratory will be developed, or we will be able to call it an investment programme, which will also be confirmed by the government itself. But all the activities are going in this direction, so that all further forms of European fund-raising, borrowing will be more beneficial than what we have spent on this version that we are operating with now. If I may say any more of the numbers that Member Shircelj asked about. The economic, internal rate of return is estimated at 6.26% after this current elaboration, the net present value of project inflows by cost-benefit is estimated at EUR 164 million, the financial return on capital at 3.1%, the weighted cost of financial resources is 3.6%. While these are economic indicators, I would ask that you do not now ask me to explain them precisely, because I am not an economist myself, but these are the figures I take from the investment laboratory. Only the project company, already foreseen and described in the law, will receive a total of between €30 million and €40 million annually. These are the inflows that will serve the company to service its obligations. Practically all the dedicated resources introduced by the law will be realised as public financial benefits and will then be paid to the project company as a payment for availability also through budgets. These dedicated resources are next. An important premium on tolls in freight transport is estimated at around €13 million per year. Then there is a transshipment fee in the port of Copier, which is estimated at a good 8 million euros a year. There is also an increased use on the railway, which is estimated at EUR 4 million. So these inflows together amount to about EUR 25 million. This is an assessment that will be valid at the beginning and depends on the volume of the transhipment and is also envisaged to increase this inflow by the growth of the transhipment. In order to ensure and service this necessary financial flow of the company, it will therefore be necessary to ensure the missing part from the budget, which is in 2026, somewhere up to €10 million for that year. Then, over the years, these dedicated revenues will increase by increasing traffic and transhipment, and only the burden of the budget, which will have to be secured to pay for this availability, will be reduced. This is therefore the way this financial structure is set up. In short, most of this burden, which needs to be provided for the financing of commitments and the operation and servicing of the investment itself, will in fact be provided by the users of this infrastructure. This also reduces the impact on the budget expenditure itself, minimises the impact on the deficit itself, which is also explained in the law, to a good EUR 500 million. In doing so, it must be said that this cost arises in the years of the largest investment investments in the project, from 2000 to 2025, where the annual impact is estimated at between €100 and €120 million, amounting to around 0.3% of GDP, which is expected to be largely neutralised, if not mostly, by the fact that an increase is also expected, i.e. an increase in the gross social product to be induced by this investment itself. In short, positive effects will be able to neutralize this impact, i.e. on the budget deficit, mostly. The very impact on public debt, of course, comes from the very responsibility. The debt is estimated at poor EUR 300 million. If this commitment were to increase, which would be the result of the proposals made by some Members here today, so that most of the project would be financed from the budget – in which case, of course, a larger part of the debt – would have to be provided, in short, this impact on public debt would still be increased. Secondly, with the current funding structure, which is very carefully thought out, where we also benefit from the guarantee of this so-called Juncker Investment Fund or EFSI mechanism – in short, there will be no need to provide the State guarantee for this loan. This is also very important. I've already pointed that out on the committee, and today, I'm going to try and explain again, because I think it's important. In short, this structure of these resources now consists of capital injections, which amount to approximately 40% of the estimated value of the investment, and this capital injection therefore consists of a contribution of EUR 200 million to the Republic of Slovenia and the remaining share, in short, to the shares of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be provided by the frozen countries. Approximately 25% of the investment is from the European grants we will provide from two sources, this is from our cohesion envelope and the calls for tenders that the European Commission has already announced and we have already applied for this February, this is the so-called CEF tender, and it is very important that this call, which is now published, is ongoing and must be signed up by 14 July. This is a so-called tender that allows the combination of financial sources of investment, in English they call it a blending call. In short, this call is very important for us to combine different sources of funding; these are the capital injections of the budget, capital injections from other countries, debt, European grants and then this EFSI guarantee of the mechanism is available for these commitments. In short, this call is specially prepared for the types of projects that we set up with this law, and it can be said that it is practically written on the skin of our project. Therefore, the question is why we need such a law, why such a structure. In fact, the answer is in this — because this call, as it were said, is written on the skin of a project as well as we suggest. In short, this third part is an obligation, which then represents the missing part of the investment. It is estimated that approximately 30% will have to be ensured and 5% have already been invested in land acquisition, in the production of documentation projects. If we now ask ourselves what would change if the investment were financed from the budget and then in the rest part from European funds and in the rest of the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. We probably cannot increase the proportion of the budget as much as we would like. Already this 200 million euro has a certain impact and must be ensured in some way. It is highly likely that EUR 400 million from the budget could not be secured and that contribution would undoubtedly be smaller. If we did not have any partners in this project, the European Commission would also assess the project less favourably from this point of view. This will further evaluate the project and enable it to receive more European funding; in this case, if they were alone, there is a possibility that the European funds will probably be smaller than they would otherwise have been obtained. And the final result; to replace this capital outflow and with European funds, the share of the debt should be significantly increased, and we again know what the consequences are. If we go back to the consequences of servicing, all of this would then also be more expensive and more difficult to service all these obligations. There is much talk that this capital injection, provided by the Western countries, is more expensive, less favourable than Slovenia could be in debt through a bank. Here it is necessary to know that this obligation is not unlimited. Banks, in particular the European Investment Bank, limit their participation by loans to projects up to a maximum of 50 % of the value of investment investments; without land acquisition and so on. In short, it is already limited here how much of this credit someone can expect from the European Investment Bank. And as it is said, if the risks are not shared here, that there are no more investors, the bank is also more cautious and is not prepared to support projects with a high level of investment. All of this must be taken into account. These are the reasons why this structure was so. Once again, in the discussions that we will have and which are already under way with the Western countries, we will advocate that these interest rates, which will be charged for these capital injections, will be taken equally into account for Slovenia's participation and for the participation of the frozen countries. Here equality will be ensured, we will try and advocate that these amounts of interest will be as much as we can get for funds through the European Investment Bank. These are the starting points that we will follow in these discussions. Expecting that there is also any return to these other countries and that this yield is significantly higher than it would have been from any other source, of course, it does not. There is no such guaranteed return here, and the law provides, and this is also one of the important principles that capital investors, co-owners in the company bear all the risks that this company takes with regard to the construction and financing of the project. This is also a very important element. There are no guaranteed returns for anyone here. If I say any more things about value added tax. It was a matter of calculating the reverse tax liability. This is based on Article 76a of the Value Added Tax Act, which is based on Council Directive 2006/112/EC, in its Article 199. Similar or equivalent principles of this reverse tax liability calculation are also applied by Dars, so that the same principles will be applied here. There were some other technical questions about the cargo itself. They still hold these numbers that most of the trans-shipment on Slovenian railways, most trains are intended for freight transport, only a small part of the passenger. I can also say that the intensity of this freight transport on Slovenian railways is so high that the total amount of transhipment transported through Slovenian routes exceeds the total amount of cargo carried out throughout Spain. About the speed of the ride. The speed of driving determines mainly the shape or heels of the second track. This route has been defined and, if you say so domestically, is sealed with the adopted State Spatial Plan. The shape, the course of this route can no longer be changed, because this would mean a change in the state spatial plan. This project speed of 160 kilometers per hour is important because of how to place the route in space. We know that freight trains on our railways and on the second track will not drive at a speed of 160 kilometers per hour. However, we must, and we are also doing so on the rest of our rail network, to ensure the requirements laid down for corridors by these standards for nuclear TNT corridors. These requirements relate, for example, to the length of trains which must be at least 750 metres, on the basis of the track load capacity which must be at least 22.5 tonnes per axis, to the speed of trains which must be at least 100 kilometres per hour, I speak for freight trains, the lines must be electrified and modern systems of signalling devices and traffic management of IRTMS and GSMR must be introduced. In this respect we are also updating the rest of the Slovenian network and these standards will also be provided on the second track itself. Freight trains will drive at a speed of 100 kilometers per hour, and passengers can do it faster; and this no longer significantly affects the cost of the project itself. I'm sorry for the coughing. Something's obviously bothering me. There was another question about the OECD study that showed a negative economy of the project. Here I can say that the OECD has shown caution in this determination of the profitability of the project, namely that this is very much dependent on the expected growth of the transhipment in Luka Koper. This was related to the expected increase in demand in Luka Koper This expected growth of the transhipment we then had to further analyse and prove and also prove it at the previously mentioned institutes, namely Jaspers and the European Investment Bank. These issues are now essentially cleared up. As far as questions are concerned, what sort of service pipes or rescue pipes will we be working on? We know it is known that the project provides for a single track which, once again, due to the requirements of these standards for corridors, due to the lengths of tunnels, there is also a rescue tube in those tunnels, which are longer lengths. This tube was in the basic project for which we have a building permit provided for in a smaller section of about two thirds of this passenger tube. Now the question is whether it is reasonable to make this service pipe to such a reduced extent, or whether it would not be more appropriate to make this tube to the fuller extent than the base pipe; and thus to allow a later upgrade of this line or the addition of this line to the two-tier line. We estimate that the extension of service pipes makes sense, and in this regard, the financial and other consequences are examined to ensure this. It is estimated that this would have an impact on the project's promotion of around €100 million. In order to do so, a building permit should be completed below. No additional spatial placement would therefore be necessary, this is very important, but only a rather rapid addition to the building permit. As it is said, this possibility of implementing this project complement is in the study. I think I've come to the end of everything I wanted to say. Maybe that's all I'd add. When there was talk of alternatives to the second track, you wouldn't want to listen to them. This refers to two ideas with some possibilities of performing short tunnels on the existing route by which trains would climb and run with the help of some tractors. All these things – and this is also the main reason that we can no longer respect them – are moving away from the realization of this project. We can no longer talk about some alternatives now that we have reached the stage when the project needs to be implemented, because this is all after the realization of the gap. The time to study these alternatives was 5, 10 years ago. Since we have a building permit, we have been very limited in this regard. As we say, we can talk about some minor changes in the scope of the individual elements themselves, but we can no longer talk about different solutions that would mean a different course of the project or any other element. This is essentially all I have to explain in the debate so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Duck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. I thank the Minister for explaining this to us, but from what I've been told, I'm even more confused. Everything's still kind of in the air. A full profile of another tube is also being studied, which is likely to be welcomed by all of us who get to know each other a little. If I understand correctly, we accept this law that we will get out of those 200 million and a few million — how much? 150 of the blending. I don't know. I'm a little worried about that. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. A nice hello to you all! When discussing the Law on Construction, Management and Management with the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line, I would like to point out extremely alarming, if I may say so, misleading. Look, Mr. Minister, it is stated in this law that the investment programme will be adopted by the 2TDK Assembly. Today, the National Assembly does not know the value of this investment because we do not have an investment programme. The National Assembly, although you have come very close to this, does not know that today it is legislating a single line with a service pipe. This means that the National Assembly today legalizes the most energetic solution, for in Article 26 a very clearly recorded building permit number, 35105-118/2011/162 1093-05, 31. 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 28 states that it is necessary to build explicitly in accordance with this authorisation. That the National Assembly today legalises a single railway and service tunnel, which is not useful for passengers or freight transport, is far from the most uneconomical solution. If we had an investment programme, this would be reflected in this investment programme. Since we don't have one, you're deceiving us. And since you have written this in Article 26 explicitly building permit, you are misleading us for a second time, you have come close to explaining that this means taking into account a project that contains a single track. Article 26 does not even mention this by word of mouth. If the National Assembly hadn't warned you about that today, I wouldn't have known we were legitimizing a single line. It's not funny, Mr. Secretary, because we accept the most uneconomical option. The responsibility will be with the Members and Members, it will not be with you! The National Assembly has accepted this, you will say. And the speech that you may be able to supplement the building permit and that this may then be 100 million more expensive, you have already announced a deviation from what we are accepting here today. For 100 million. But you didn't say you'd have to come back to the National Assembly with a change of law if you changed the building permit. Unnecessaryly, the procedure relating to the law is complicated. Next deceiving. When we look at the European Commission's analysis of the financing of rail infrastructure, the tracks; the fact that it is not possible to build with public funds simply does not. It is very clear from the data of the European Commission that Poland has acquired 5 billion funding for the construction of railway infrastructure, Hungary has won 3 billion, Latvia 2.8 billion euros, the Czech Republic 274 million. Slovenia too – over 400 million for Prague-Hodos. So it can be built with public funds and funding is 40-85%. And if they run for a fund of 85% at 1.4 billion, it means that Slovenia already has a closed financial structure. We already have 200 million, the remaining money is provided from the European budget. But, Minister, now we're at that very worrying point; and please listen to me. The European Commission's report makes it very clear that the second track of Divača-Koper was a priority project within the European Commission's TNT lines from 2005 to 2015. 2015 Turnover and 2015 explicitly states: European funding is not explicitly recommended. As a reason: Due to the unclear financial structure of private financing. Minister, I will now remind you of the question I have asked you in this regard and of the debate in the National Assembly which has been voted on. Then you clearly stated, “Yes, we will get a private investor”. That's when I told you you wouldn't get it. That's when you tricked the National Assembly. Surely, I am sure that you have received a report from the European Commission that, for the second indent, because you have the intended private funding, they do not explicitly recommend that it be financed by European funds. It's written in this analysis. I am sure that our European Commissioner, Mrs Violeta Bulc, is also aware of this analysis, which is responsible for the area of infrastructure. Did she warn us about this today when we discussed it? No, no, no. So this is an extremely serious fraud on your part and, I must also find out, on the part of our European Commissioner, because the National Assembly has not informed this position of the European Commission. And that's why the idea of gaining a Hungarian or some other country that will join the project is because you're solving the mistake that was caused by insistence on a private source. But this error will cost us dearly because this project will not cost 1.4 billion; because for the construction of all service tunnels and main pipes we will come to the number 38 km of tunnels. And it's not going to be 1.4 billion, it's going to be 2.5 to 3 billion. And even today, we can say that we will not provide these funds from the budget; and what will Hungary or another country, because certainly Germany is also in the game, then say when the partner in this project – we will go into the project if you give us Luka Koper and give us Slovenian railways as an operator. This will be the final product. And the Minister, because, in fact, the European Commission's analysis makes it very clear that it does not recommend funding because you insisted on private financing, that is your resignation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u147	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr Janko Weber. I'm not allowed to talk about being told here that I'm deceiving anything or that the government is even doing it. If we go in order. The single line with such service pipes, as envisaged, was established by a State Spatial Plan, which was adopted long before the government's appearance, I think it was adopted in 2006, and then there were some minor additions due to these deposits and so on. But basically it was a single line that the service pipes were like that, it was decided and adopted long before this project was taken over by this government and me as minister. I have received such a project and in the light of its speediest realization, we can no longer use it to modify it in any way, to open new placement procedures into space, but the project can be improved to the extent that it is tolerated in spatial plans and in building permits. And, as it is said, the possibility of supplementing the building permit is being explored with the aim of allowing the full range of service pipes to be implemented, which could later allow the line to be upgraded into a two-tier track, because we know what problems we are facing on the existing track. The existing route will probably not be able to function for an unlimited period of time, as we face the danger of fires, we face the difficulty of maintaining it in operating conditions, which is also very expensive, time-consuming. In short, it is likely that at some point a decision will have to be taken to close it; and there will be a need to ensure duality, I suppose, along this existing new track of the second track. That is why we must do everything possible to ensure this duality later; and this means the construction of these service pipes in the full section. I'm not going to say that you tried to deceive me when you mentioned that the law defined exactly what building permit this project should be carried out. Article 26 of the Act states that this building permit, the number of which is quoted, which was issued to an investor by the Ministry of Infrastructure, will be transferred to a new investor, namely 2TKK. The article discusses the transfer of a building permit and to this end the building permit will need to be amended. Do not say that the project must be carried out with such a building permit. There's no such thing as law. However, it is stated which building permit is transferred to the new investor, this is 2TKK, so that there will be no doubt or confusion. As regards European funds, the extent to which certain countries have exhausted. Slovenia has also been successful in this regard in the past financial perspective, drawing on virtually all available European funds. I think that the success of the drawdown was around 99%, and to this end we have absorbed almost a billion euros for rail infrastructure. In the new financial perspective 2014-2020, we unfortunately have very limited European resources for infrastructure. Only €150 million is foreseen for the cohesion envelope and approximately the size of the CEF contracts. If all available European funds were to be invested in a second-rate project, they could not approximate the value of co-financing at percentages as mentioned above, 85 %. This has already been explained in this National Assembly, and we have talked a lot about this on the occasion of my interpretation, and I will repeat it again. That is why the approach here has been taken to obtain these European funds in part from CEF contracts, partly from our available envelopes, and partly from open tenders that will still be published and for which we have, as we say, very carefully prepared that this option of drawing will be provided to the maximum extent possible. And about private investors. Yes, in the initial stages we examined and it was envisaged that a public-private partnership would be established in this project. Above all, it was suggested that the Slovenian logistics companies Luka Koper and Slovenian Railway participate, but at later stages of these coordination and agreement procedures it was found that this cooperation would not be acceptable for such or other reasons. We all know that there have been very great opposition here, including that Luca Koper is somehow entangled in some structures that could allow its share ownership by someone else; that is why we have withdrawn from these solutions. The port of Koper is proprietaryly intact and the concession relationship is maintained there as it is. This was our commitment, which we have already made in all these debates; and the proposed solution in this respect preserves these relations as they have been established. The working conditions are taken into account and we are no longer proposing a solution to the public-private partnership, but to partnerships with the behind countries, as we call it, namely public-public partnerships. I was so obliged to explain that there is no deceiving here that all of this has been carefully studied; and we are very well aware of our responsibility, which I can defend here at any time again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u149	Replica, Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Right now, you've been deceiving the National Assembly again. You have read Article 26, which speaks precisely, explicitly, of the number of construction permits transferred from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Directorates for Road to 2TKK. Article 28, Mr. Minister, the execution of construction and other works, explicitly states, will read literally because you have deceived the National Assembly: “The Society must conclude all necessary operations and carry out other acts and actions to build, in time, in accordance with the regulations and building permits set out in Article 26, all facilities of the second track, carry out all necessary installations and installations and carry out all other spatial arrangements necessary for the completion of the second track.” Article 28 explicitly states that you must build after this permit, and this is the farthest non-economic project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u151	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u152	I'm really sorry that we're stuck here right now in these replicas, but I really have to do it again, and I'm going to try to further explain, with the second article, where the meaning of the terms is defined, it says in the first indent: "The second track is all public rail infrastructure, built on the basis of a building permit number, and it is quoted, of 31. 3. 2016, including any subsequent renewals, updates or upgrades on the same route.« In short, that's the second track.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u153	The word has magic. Alexander Kavčič. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! However, something needs to be reported to the Slovenian public again, the fact that we have been building another track since 1990. As many years as the old Slovenia or even more, there is already talk about this second track. Governments were just speaking and speaking, ordering studies, one, two, three, spending money on these studies; now the moment of truth has come and this government has drawn the second track in this direction to execute it in order to start building it. This law today in the National Assembly is the first point leading in this direction. In just two years, the Mira Cerar government has obtained a building permit, set up a company that will build a second track, then sign up and join European calls and start working with the other countries. Somehow three fundamental points are with which the opposition, and I am sorry that some coalition Members are also discussing this, are attacking the second track. This is an attack on this law, then an attack on the route itself, I hear that the route is already problematic, but the route was not confirmed yesterday, it did not confirm one year ago and not two years ago; but it was confirmed 10 years ago, so this government did not confirm this route where this second track will be built. And the funding model is very problematic for some. Clearly, the problem is that this government will start building a second track. It is probably in the interest of someone or the majority of those opposed to it that this does not happen. That these works do not begin at all. It is not in the interest of this ministry or this government to argue about these or other matters, as regards the second track, but it is in the interest of this government and this ministry that the second track will begin as soon as possible – and therefore the procedure is necessary – as well. Today we have also heard that the second track is just a route that will be built in a completely different place, such as the current railway route. And on the new route there will also be a service pipe, which will be suitable width, so that in later years the right railway line can also be built. The old railway line, as it has been heard today, will be designed for other things. Maybe if I preconceived, there would be a biking trail there and the naturalists would be even more pleased that there would be no such noise and so much traffic. I have no problem with this marriage alone, and I will continue to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u155	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary; colleagues and colleagues! We started by whether or not we need to; and we found that we need a second track. That's not a dilemma. We're actually united here. This does not bother me in this unity either, i.e. the opposition claims that this form of 2TKK is an innovative approach, that it is something new. I don't know, I just trust that lawyers who have reviewed or are behind this are responsible people and that they will pull it off in the way that it is necessary. Whether it's a consortium or not, I can't discuss it. I think form itself does not prejudge anything, not bad, not good construction, not fast construction, not slow construction. But what I think is important in the next phase is control. We have a big problem with this surveillance. In our homes, in companies, in state companies, in TES, in banks, supervision is not functioning anywhere, nowhere works. In some ways, I can only hope that control in this organised form will work if it does not work elsewhere; but I can't do anything but hope. Yes, I'm sure it can't be the Ministry. I think that this amendment of the United Left has its own salt, if I may say that control is broader, is stronger, is parliamentary. If we are taking responsibility for the law today, then I think there is no real reason not to be responsible for the full, direct control of what is being done on this basis. As far as technology is concerned. We can't lose words about the new route, despite the fact that the priest's proposal is brilliant and completely new, it could be experimental, but I think it's a thing of the past. Question — one track or two tracks in a new location? Personally, I am convinced that we should immediately start working both tracks; no matter how much more it costs 90 or more. That's my opinion all the time. It's not about environmentalists, it's about shaking there, I don't know if you've ever walked around those three villages up there under Brkina, that people live there because of this crowd of trains. It's also about people out there, and sooner or later it's going to happen, anyway, they're having trouble with that falling rock, and it's going to go up. Before the so-called second track is built or both, the disaster will be so great there, because not to forget, this traffic is increasing, but it is already extremely large. And I'd basically go a little bit higher on my own to solve the old track problem when it's built. There's no doubt in my mind. As for the cost, I don't believe any of the numbers completely, because I'm a little too old to believe everything at this point, I'm sure not. The fact is, when Dars was working on the highway, Mr Stanko Strin was constantly signing the annexes to the contracts, because it just crashed there, and it crashed there, and that's where it crashed. In the end, we had, they say, one of the most expensive highways in Europe, even though I don't know if that's true, but well, it was inflammatory all the time. Here we could help with a civil initiative, they have experience in this. But I don't understand this, but I'm not an economist, and I apologize for the combination of funding so varied already in June, last July, Mrs Alenka Žnidaršič Kranjc said why they don't check how much money people have in their socks – that's what the Journal says today in the article – and would be willing to invest it because the bank is practically failing, and we will end up or will pay negative interest. But I don't understand why it's not possible to attract these funds in some part, because it's obviously not as small as it seems, but at the same time it would be in our people's favor. And with this combination of all resources, I think it would be easy to formalize. But if I go to Hungary now in this combination of funding, I am not so dislikable with this combination. It is that we – if the price is not too high, I find it difficult to estimate these parameters as much as the price, but we do have assurance that this price is not high – bind the future partner who is already a partner and bind the Central European space to Luka, which I think is an important fact; I will not talk about competition with the neighbours now, because many of you know this very well. And the last thing I'd say. We're talking all the time about the Koper-Girl Railway. That's the specific law. And I'm worried about one more thing in this debate: the Divača railway doesn't stop. Our problem then is communication forward to Central Europe, as well as through Slovenia. I don't know if you ever take a train to Novo mesto and an hour and 50 minutes. Slovenian railways should either follow this wave or follow this trend of infrastructure modernisation in full. It's not just a piece here and there, and when it comes to Ljubljana, then it's a dispersion on several sides, most of it goes north-east, it doesn't close there, the railroad doesn't end there. We must also continue to open and modernise all these roads in parallel. This may also be another topic, but these discussions about the railway always remind me of this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u157	Colleagues, colleagues, as I can see that there is still interest in the debate, I ask you to apply. The application shall be made. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! I must say that I am very attentive to this debate, which is quite similar to the one on the home working committee. But there are quite a few additional arguments in both directions. I fear, however, that if the Minister responds too much, he will eventually convince the Modern Centre Party that they will not support this law because it is quite in conflict with itself in these answers. I would understand that this law is passed before we set up a 2DKK and that at that stage we define all the procedures, as is common practice in some normal European space. This law lists quite a number of comparable practices and also mentions the Brenner tunnel between Italy and Austria, which is not comparable, but it shows how they took the matter away in these proceedings. This company, which was established, is preparing the case, the building permit, all procedures and so on. In this case, we went in the opposite order. First, as was said, at the end of March, we received a building permit, according to the government's time, we set up a company, we gave it a bunch of money first, but when we found out that it did not have a legal basis, we press the door to the nose with the adoption of a law that would essentially legitimize this structure, which was established in some way ad hoc. When I listen to the Minister's replies to the debates of the Members, I have a question and I will also put it to the Minister. Do we not accept this law in order to convince these icy nations to enter this story? For from everything that has been heard so far, and from what my colleague Janko Weber has warned about, comparable European practices also in the construction of public infrastructure, where he pointed out that the European Commission is extremely aware of the problem in cases of public-private partnerships, the question is indeed whether this public-public partnership, which has a wider range of different investors, will not be used as some kind of pressure on the frozen countries – we have prepared so far in our field and let you approach. We have a marriage, and you're the desired partners. The more we turn to these answers, the less clear arguments the Ministry makes. I'll also ask the minister, I asked him a question of the 20th. 3. 2017. He was away at the time. Yesterday, however, I received an answer that was very interesting in at least one part, and I will also ask him and ask him for comments. I will quote his answer: “Since the question of Parliament was raised at the meeting of the National Assembly 20. 3. 2017, on the second track project, there have been significant positive developments, indicating that the project is set seriously, that we have defined all items and that the Ministry of Infrastructure and the government, without false promises, are pursuing the objectives set." I am really interested in what has changed since my question on this project when we say that the building permit was issued in March 2016. Since then, the project has not changed, and this financial structure has changed. And I would like to ask you further for an answer as to what positive developments have been in these last 20 days. I have another question, already raised by my colleague Shircelj, your answer says, quote: “In view of the budgetary value of the project, I can say that the Ministry of Infrastructure has carried out a revision of the project in order to verify the key technical solutions of the project, identify the possibility of rationalisation and evaluation of the project, and evaluate the risks that may arise at the time of construction and may be the basis for unforeseen works and increase the value of the project. From the budget value estimated on the basis of the design budget to EUR 1.34 billion, we have been able to reduce the budget value by more than 400 million in these procedures. Of these, approximately half of this difference by technical optimizations and reduction of uniform prices, the other half represents a reduction in the value added tax. Now I wonder how we view these investments. Whether we watch them together with or without VAT, but in any case, investment is an investment; without VAT. And now the reduction of one VAT is no reduction in the investment. It's just an account operation that's questionable. I think there was no answer to Mr Shirtzl's question whether this is possible in this case. Since you are saying here: “The Extra Value Tax Act allows the reverse tax mechanism to calculate the entry VAT on the value of the works with the exit VAT, which will be charged by the project company to the value of the services provided or in the payment of the compensation for the availability after the construction of the facility.” I'm not quite sure, but I'm not a legal expert in the field of taxes, but I don't think that's a viable solution. I know what it's like to settle an entry-exit tax, but in this case it's a company that won't bill the country. And I'm really interested in how the entry tax is going to be charged, so I'd like an answer to that. And you gave me another answer below when you commented on the claims made by civil initiatives; you say that the analysis of the benefits and costs of the project, the so-called cost-benefit analysis, shows the annual net economic benefits at the level of the European Union between €60 million and €80 million, which should be weighed with the time component of the project and possible prices. I would like to comment on what this means at the level of the European Union. Was that meant within the country? This is not the most understandable lesson for me because you are talking in response about some savings at the level of the European Union. As regards this continuation, as has already been pointed out, and in the opening debate, I myself have drawn attention to some of the issues that are problematic, 2TKK and the Assembly represented by the Government have confirmed the investment programme that was discussed. You said that, while there are in principle two; one was prepared in 2015, where some other criteria from the public-private partnership were taken into account, and the scenario where the state fully covers these construction costs; and the next, which was prepared in this January, talking about the investment programme in which the public partnership is concerned. If all these investment programmes are confirmed by the government as a assembly and 2TKK, in fact we are somehow cut off from this decision. And now we come to that parallel that you don't want to hear or understand, compared to Project TES 6. There were even new investment programmes, which came to the table of our decision makers when the guarantee law was to be passed; and nothing earlier. Previously, it has been said that Members do not have the right or to ask what to learn about individual details, because this is a matter of corporate governance, of these companies and so on. In this case, as it is written, it is a very similar principle – one company that will lead the investment will decide everything, the assembly will be represented by the government and the circle is closed. The same scenario as in the case of the TES 6 project, as long as the project ran normally, somewhere until 2008, when the crisis also occurred on energy markets when the electricity price crashed, this novel investment programme proved to be inadequate. At that time, the state entered and it was all the fault of the ministers, the government and so on; and earlier it was within corporate governance. And a similar matter is clearly indicated in this case. I also have a problem listening to your answers about how the project is set. If we read the law and the explanation, it is very precise. As previously noted, amendments on the committee have also corrected the building permit number because this is the starting point for the whole law. On the other hand, we have statements or reflections on how this second tube, which is intended for service work, rescue work, would be modified and drilled in an appropriate section that allows, clearly, once again also the possibility of installing equipment and another track, which is, for me, technically speaking, certainly meaningful. However, I have a problem because someone since 2016, when the building permit was obtained, or even before all the professions and engineers were involved in this story, no one has seen it. And when the bill comes to the table, you should have taken that into account and not wondered about it. It is not, however, that when it comes to public disclosure and when someone points out whether it is a civil initiative, whether it is some experts who have not been involved in these projects in the past or Members in the past, someone begins to think and also starts to explain publicly that it is now in consideration and that this may even be incorporated into the project. On the other hand, it is strained by explicit reference to the building permit without the possibility of any changes. And the transfer of the building permit to 2TKK does not constitute a change in the building permit. However, I agree with the Minister that this change in the section of the auxiliary tunnel itself means a clear change in the building permit, which would make sense; however, this also needs to be regulated legally. The problem that we, who are in the opposition, or probably someone else, have, is that someone knows this, and they're pushing the law without such solutions in the process ahead. How can we trust a process and a law that does not provide for such technical solutions that make sense that we all agree on in time?Oh, my God! This is why we are talking about the fact that the matter is very similar to that of TES 6, where there was always an excuse later – the work started, it was found that this technical detail is missing, that it is not regulated. And additional solutions were taken, additional annexes and required the state and the ministries to cover this. From this point of view, it is difficult for me to support this law or not to support it, and I have already announced it in my opinion. However, I have no problems, and we have made it clear in the past that the second-tier project is a necessity, but it must also be appropriate on the technical side; it must not be allowed at a stage when we adopt a law to provide finance, we find that some other things need to be added. I think this path you've taken is actually wrong. As I was saying, the marriage should come to the table as soon as you got the building permit when the decision on some way went down. Before you set up 2TKK, the matter for the majority of us sitting in this National Assembly would be acceptable. Comment also on why it is only now a civil initiative, why some professional and other public response. It should be known that this project was only a relatively small pool of experts. Minister, at the meetings of the Home Working Committee, your answer has been like this all the time – We will give you an overview of this project at the time of the audit. It is said that, not the public, not the professional public, not anyone who would like to familiarise themselves with this project in the past and give possible initiatives, which you now point out is too late for each thing, these options were not available until the audit was completed and published publicly. And the same principle is repeated as in the case of TES. We'll be right back. There were also corporate governance issues, a matter of companies that had the right to look, none of them had the right. And we got the updated investment programmes on the table as Members, like those who decide when the proposal for the guarantee law was. Not before. In the end, all responsibility fell, and this was pointed out to the National Assembly. It's our fault, it's our fault. And probably the minister, too. And I think it is right for such an important project to take some time to think about it, especially because you see for yourself that you need to put another part of it that you need to change the building permit in order to make the project meaningful. I do not imagine that we are now adopting a law with some financial structure and that you are going to negotiate with, I don't know, Hungary or Slovakia or the Czech Republic, or I don't know; but in six months you will come up with a revised programme where you will find out and convince them that you have found it wise to spin one more tube parallel, or maybe in 10 years you will have to put the rails there and put it into practice. I think that this is a very unrealistic approach and it is very difficult at this stage to support and, at the end of the day, also to confirm this law. It practically solves nothing and causes nothing but trouble. You will likely soon find that certain articles are so written that you yourself will have problems in the next phase if you follow this path, that there is yet another matter to be completed; and then we are likely to meet again in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anita Kolesh has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u160	Hello, Mr. Secretary, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If we asked residents and residents today, if they knew anything about the second track, surely everyone would have a point of view. 10, 15, 8, I don't know, 5 years ago, the population of Slovenia was much smaller. What do I mean? In fact, until the day the minister clearly questioned some of the construction possibilities, Slovenia was still very undecided in this regard, but then it slipped into it and then the government also decided to become the second track of the central programme, the project of this government, and so it is right. I think it is right that, in certain stages, we identify what is a priority for the country of Slovenia. And the second track, we've all figured out, is priority and we're taking this project forward as it's set. Whether it is right or wrong; I must say that no one in this Chamber or even those who decide or discuss it is underestimated, but it still seems a little strange to me that some people are talking today about things that are clear. I can't understand that someone is telling us that the minister and the government are deceiving us by not knowing that the route is following that state spatial plan that was adopted long ago; and by the route that was given; but that it is some kind of deception. Absolutely not. I know very well what this plan is, or in detail not, but in this part that it is a single railway and that it is this service pipe. All I can say is that I welcome the efforts to turn this matter into the desired two-tier railway. And I also know very well if we're going to stay in those desires to go in the other direction, that's to say that this is a harmful project just a single railway and this service pipe that we just stopped the project. This is perfectly clear and those who think so, I also consider as those who do not want this construction to start; however you can tell me today that the modern centre Party will build a foundation stone or what I know. With every reply that the Minister has given here, including regarding funding, I must say that we are certainly Members of the Modern Centre Party, or we do not think that we are being misled by some numbers. I myself have had a lot of questions about this funding, and even around the back countries, which are supposed to be involved in this. I consider this effort of the ministry as a kind of comprehensive effort to finance not only in some of the parts they are; if we look at this chart, say Hungary is one of the sources. No, this is a group of resources or an investment plan that is linked to each other. It is precisely these frozen countries that give us added value to the possibilities of obtaining additional funds. However, I have come to understand that this is not a decisive source and that we will be discussing and reviewing this source in this National Assembly. I think that this law is exactly the way to come to some transparent way of building. I completely understand that someone is thinking differently, but I think it's a good way to make the law more clear — than who the investor is, who the partners are, who the tasks are, the scope of the financial structure and so on; and also with regard to supervision. If I mention control, I am also sensitive to the need for control, and it needs to be clearly highlighted. In this regard, I am also thinking about an amendment that has been tabled here, although I am very surprised that some party submits amendments to a law that is a bluff. I don't know if the amendments are bluffing.Oh, my God! But I don't know if these amendments are the right answers. Personally, I do not think so; nor is it because I have been in this period, since I have been in Parliament, many times since we have experienced that in some of the definitions we may have had very clear assumptions about control, about conditions and so forth; but we have come to a great degree of politicisation of this staffing, so to speak. Here I fear that we are coming back to the fact that we all have here together a desire to put down some kind of political plate, a cup to which we will add some of our interests. I'm pretty skeptical about that. But I have to say something else, because somehow you were telling us that we are Members of the Modern Centre Party, increasingly convinced that we will not support the law or anything like that; I think we are increasingly convinced when we listen to these debates that we need to support the law that we have very good arguments for this. However, I am also pleased that the ministry has made so much effort over the past few months regarding these beginnings, because I consider not only the law but also all their efforts to actually start building this second track. I sincerely hope that the majority of Members who will support this law in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you. I think I need to respond. And I am increasingly convinced that more than the Minister has spoken today, the less we know about this project, the more we are confused, even as far as finance is concerned. I am increasingly convinced that we must not adopt this law. Why put amendments on a marriage that's a bluff? So that this bluff is at least a little bit acceptable. You're talking about being satisfied with this control, as defined in this control. I repeat, this law stipulates that the Minister will appoint five supervisors of this project, from four representatives of the other ministries and one from civil society, without any definition of how and what. And that's ridiculous in this story. And the more I listen to the defenses of this law by the Members of the Modern Centre Party, the more I am sure that you are also not sure that this is the right law and that it needs to be adopted, but that arithmetic will obviously do its job again. Things are a long way from being clear, and I think colleague Weber took them very well. The Minister is deceiving; and he has been deceiving since day one. This was not about any reflection, for no calculation of which thing is better; but from every intervention it got in some way complicated and then we followed that line: the second track is not needed, the public-private partnership, the participation of Slovenian Railways and Luke Koper; now we have agreed on a public-public partnership. And this record changes regularly for a few months. I don't think the Minister is just credible, and even this law, which is the basis for his credibility, can't be credible from this. All of today's debate also tells me in some way that we were still right when we put in the interpolation, because we were already practically saying the same things at the time. Apparently, this doubt is spreading to some other Members today. I think that call from Comrade Veber should be heard by the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! Since I have little time, I will focus on that part of the debate when you discuss that the funding method is unclear to you and that it is somehow unacceptable how this project will be financed. I would really like to highlight and warn because you also mentioned the Brenner tunnel and somehow connected that funding with this funding, which today is presented that the Brenner tunnel cannot be compared to this project because the EFSI fund or Juncker plan was not used there. As a result, each project has its own funding model in some way. And I don't know why this is funny to you, but it's funny to me, too, I've noticed this when we were discussing cohesion policy, about drawing on European funds, because I somehow realized that you didn't understand exactly how these Juncker funds could be used either. And if we are talking about the state or the ministry using a guarantee in this project, because then this deficit will not be taken into account, it will be smaller because the state will use such a guarantee. If the state uses its guarantee, then the debt of the state simply increases; and no one wants to understand it. It would be good if Dars would also use this mechanism in some way, which is now available from 2015. And I think we simply do not want to understand this mechanism in this House. And there's something else I'd like to warn you. Years ago, you all said that we were not preparing the project and that we were not building the second track and that the Ministry was not preparing the project and that we had European resources and that they were not being used. This is because this approach is completely new. This approach was also presented at Brdo pri Kranju at the TNT Conference in autumn and it was explicitly stated that this requires a different approach, that a completely different organisation is needed in this funding. Somehow no one wants to understand that. And I'll just say it myself, there I had a chance to hear about the Bratislava bypass project, when they similarly approached the project to bring it down. They just took three years to prepare this project, now they've got the funds, and they're going to do it. And this project is exactly what the Ministry has now joined in order to relieve taxpayers — precisely because of this. That's right. I'm listening to the committee, and I'm listening to it today so that there's no way to understand it. The guarantee will now come from this type of funding, not from the state. Why would the state give a guarantee? You keep saying the state will guarantee it. No, the state will not provide a guarantee, but the EFSI fund is intended to do so. And grants are not negligible and the European Investment Bank will support this. This is a whole set of these, and that is why we need this law today, which will allow 2TDK to make use of these European funds in this way. I was really trying to say it in my own way, I could have put it a little differently, but it's also right that people on the ground are hearing that it's actually a new approach; and nobody wants to understand it today. And I want everyone to understand that and people to understand that. This mode of funding is in some way a burden on taxpayers, so we cannot compare it with TER 6, because it is a means that will somehow disperse, as I have already said. This is said to be a guarantee from the Juncker Fund, investment bank, CEF. And all of this is a component that will be implemented by 2TKK in order for this project to be implemented. And I wish everyone could understand that. This project will certainly be feasible and I believe in the success of this project. Some strangers are still, because it is not possible to predict everything because it is just the basis for doing so. Of course it'll all be under control. Why not? For all this is still to be controlled by the KPK, by the Court of Auditors, the Ministry will exercise control, the government will appoint a assembly; I do not know why this would then be in some way controversial. I believe that this project will be implemented and that this is the first model that can then be used for other projects; given that the state has problems with indebtedness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u165	We have two replicas. Dr. Franz the Duck is first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you. I have a little time. I'll be brief. Discharge of taxpayers is like going to Han, Dani, me, my colleague Lah for beer, and Pero Wilfan, and the kids bring us money for beer, and they go to the burek before, and then we have to give them ice cream, which means our beer will be more expensive. This is a tax relief. But as for Dars, Dars, of course, can't go into such a mechanism, because his billions are turning into debt to us, my dear God. Bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u167	Daniel Krivec, please, you have the word, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you. I may have been misunderstood, but my colleague has now confirmed that this is the case with some kind of alien. Despite all the efforts of the ministry, which referred to some comparable practices from abroad, which should confirm your model that it is comparable to European practices, you have now made it very clear to me that this is a unique thing that the Modern Centre Party has been reminded of, perhaps even you. Jani, I have seen that he does not agree too much; but in fact, you have now rejected the whole Ministry's thesis that this is a comparable model to European comparable practices; and I am very grateful for your expositions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u169	Mr. Bell Lah, please, you have the floor. Allow me, procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u170	I no longer have time to discuss, and I find it unfair and unfair to use some ignorance of non-verbal communication. I'm the expert on this, pal, you're not; not judging by my feelings, my appearance, how I agree with what I agree with and what I don't. I also recently received one text message so that I might be skeptical about this project. No, I'm not skeptical. But I ask you, Mr President, to protect your integrity and tell your colleagues that they can't just think about it because you can't look at it, especially not at the moment that you know I can't even react because the replica can't be replicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u171	We just did it with your help. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Chairman. I still have some time. As far as this project is concerned, the strategy for the development of transport infrastructure in Slovenia, adopted by the Government in 2015, was also addressed by SWOT analysis for railways. It is interesting, however, to read just what the risks are written in the strategy endorsed by the Government: the spillover of transit traffic flows to the parallel network across Italy, Austria, Hungary or Croatia due to the slow development of railway transport infrastructure; the increasing traffic congestion and the reduction of safety in freight and passenger transport due to the slow modernisation of the rail network; the accelerated collapse of rail infrastructure due to increased transport burdens; the unclear organisational composition in the management and development of investment (new upgrades, upgrades, updates) and an unclear model of financing; the vague vision and strategy for the development and management of the rail network. This finding was adopted by the Government in 2015. Now I'm going to move on to this project. The value of this project is expected to be 600 million in 2010. Which one of us knew at the time that it was just one track, that it wasn't two. When we asked, we received an answer that the project would be presented to us when the audit was carried out. When the audit was carried out, or later, a number appeared that the project was worth up to a billion to 400. Here the minister says there is no time for new solutions, that it was time for new solutions back then. Who knew at the time what kind of solution was being prepared if it was in a tight circle, the same as TER 6. But when it came to the day that the project was only one track and that the value of this investment was so high, then ideas and other variants emerged that would provide two new tracks, from Divaca to Kopra. This also confirms that it takes two tracks, I am sure and all the professional public, including the Engineering Academy confirms this, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, the Union of Engineers of Slovenia, they have prepared some conclusions, you probably got them. They say it's necessary to have two tracks from Divaca to Copra, a new track. If we look at this project, how the project is set to be 20 kilometers of tunnels, down in the valley, where there is a very uncomfortable terrain for the construction of tunnels. These are Dars' experiences in building tunnels on the highway, because in the flash drive it's supposed to take at least twice as long as in limestone, here's a bunch of these projects. The project goes so that the designer decided that we would work Serpentine underground with a 600 - meter radio that does not allow for 100 miles or 100 miles an hour. The profession warns that given the use of so many trains, there will be a great deal of maintenance needed to make the value very high. The question is whether the use will be sufficient for these costs. They also warn that if we went with another track parallel, the radio inside would be still significantly smaller, 550 meters, not 600 meters. This project, as it is, I fully agree with Mr Webro, even with Mr Hainz, although they are both in position. This project, when it comes to light, is the least rational and most expensive and we only get half of what we want or need. If this project is to be built by 2025, if the service pipe is to be transformed into a pipe which could later be a second track, it is necessary to change the building permit; but this service pipe is only on the three longest tunnels. In the shortest tunnels, those five shorter tunnels of a total length of four kilometers are still nothing. No viaducts, no other part of the line. And if this is going to be built 2025, won't we need a few years left?Oh, my God! Then when will we get what is desired or necessary — 2030? This is said to be the current track in use by 2030 as half of this required track. How much money? The Secretary of State said that we need 97 million to increase the service pipes like the rolling stock. How much longer is it gonna cost? We only have holes here, we have enlarged holes on the three longest tunnels. How much will it cost if it costs a billion? I don't know, 200, 300, 500 million, another 800 million; and we come up with that number that earlier colleague Weber said it would cost $2 billion together, or 2.5 billion if anything else got complicated in the flash tunnels. And when? 2030. The port of Koper has a planned transhipment of 35 million tonnes in 2030. How long will traffic on the highway go up? Only about 20% of the trucks on this highway go to Luka Koper, others go to Italy, Trieste or elsewhere. Mr. Hainz mentioned earlier, what about the rest of the tracks? For basic trains, for which this tunnel will be for, this new route will allow, but will not allow the route to Ljubljana. We have approximately 2.5 kilometers of tunnels that need to be increased to allow the base train to move on from Divaca; or the opposite of coming from Ljubljana to Divaca. What's it gonna cost when we build it? In my view, it will be necessary to unload motorways and trucks in agreement with neighbouring countries to also put them on wagons. What about the alternative? You're saying that everything is a 20-year-old idea that we're now legitimizing with a building permit entered into the law, there's nothing that can be changed because it's in a hurry. Is there really no other way to build two new tracks from Divaca to Koper by 2030? Is there really no other option? Because this option allows us this, maybe a year earlier and at least two billion costs for two tracks. Do we have any alternative to building this for 800 million, they say, in four years? And the contractor gives a bank guarantee, guarantees it will be for so much money and at this time. There's no time. We're gonna have to stick a shovel and we're gonna stick it up until 2030 to get what we need. And now we're in a hurry. Why? Or funding, we have only 200 million in our hands now, but no more than a billion, and the other is all pigeons on the roof. We have heard Mr Weber say what the possibilities are for drawing European funds forward from where. Will we give all cohesion funds in the next financial perspective for the second track? For half of what we need? One is a bunch of inadequacies. The project that was set up 20 years ago, we're going to start building now and we can't change anything because there's no time. And we'll be building by 2030 or by 2028. That's the project. I don't know if any profession is so capable of making serpentine underground, and it's the most rational. For those construction workers who make tunnels, that's the best thing. We're gonna make another round before we go to Koper to get to the 12-mile slope of the railroad so it doesn't go to 17 or more. The biggest problem with this track is that we have to bridge the height difference of 390 meters. Because the train's slope is not supposed to be more than 12 proms by European standards, which is recommended, and this is 17 and we're going to do a little underground. Is that really the solution? Why don't we swing a little earlier or make a little bit longer in limestone and come down into the valley, and you don't have to wiggle?Oh, my God! I believe that technology has changed and science has progressed from 20 years ago, but we reject it, we don't trust engineers. No, no, no, no, no! Who ever saw anything like that? Is that really it? I think there has been some danger that there is some alternative, that the profession and people realize that it is much cheaper, the time of construction is shorter; but it is a dilemma whether we accept it or not. No, we simply refuse – this is not for us. Perhaps it will be built in another country rather than in our own; with our experts and with our performers. Because others believe in our engineers and we don't. And we obviously believe in those uncles who 20 years ago imagined making as many tunnels as possible, maybe already purchased machines are waiting, so we need to start and burden taxpayers as soon as possible. I've been listening to the minister how our share here, like Hungary, will have the same return. What's the yield? Out of use? We charge usages about 8 million for a thousand 200 kilometers in Slovenia. What's the yield? This will be a return from the budget. From one pocket to another pocket, from the budget we will give the money to the firm 2TKK, which is state-owned, with a return. And after the end of the concession, we will pay Hungary their share with a return. Or sooner, if the other political will comes, then, by chance, 2TKK will go bankrupt; and you will have to pay it first or pay the unamorted part of the cartridge, as it says. We will not support this law in any way in the parliamentary group. And I hope you won't stay either, because it usually crumbling, because we're in a hurry with one project that's obsolete, which is the most expensive option for half of what we need and what we're going to be building for at least 8 years, and then another tube for a few years. There's probably nowhere else to do this than just us.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u173	I'm asking for an application because I can see there's more interest. Here you go. Check in. Mr. Franz Jursha, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, to the Secretary of State, to your colleagues and also to you, dear colleagues and colleagues! One of the discussers I liked most today, unfortunately he is not here to be directly commended, started his debate – Where should I start? And someone from the bench said to him, "At first. Maybe I'd like to say something from the start. You're all talking about 20 years, and I'm not going to let myself go back 20 years, but I'm going to go back to the current term, and we're here as representatives of people, and we're talking about it, and sometimes we laugh at each other, and eventually we're just people. Back then, at the beginning of the term, we were playing this minister, and then the candidate sitting here, we said, "Look at him, he doesn't want to build another track. In this Chamber, we always say that this is a project that we need to carry out, give work to people, we need a connection, we need logistical progress; it is essential. And I'm telling you, it's really necessary, and we probably all know that. I am well aware when driving on the route almost from the Hungarian border to Ljubljana. It's not a highway anymore, my dear, it's a highway. Truckway. And with a new track and an update of all tracks in Slovenia, we will also be able to carry most of the cargo onto the railways, which would be very useful; and the motorways would also be used for the purpose for which they were also built. I mentioned the minister and his initial thinking, and we encouraged others, and we also wrote a little that we encouraged and that one day we will actually start building this second track. But, yes, I am sure that we need it to be built, that we need to regulate the financial structure, because without the financial structure, we will not get European funding. At that time, we did things naively, and nothing came out of it because they are not naive up there, they know how to serve these things. And now it's kind of started to evolve to actually serve as well as served. It makes sense for us all to think and be concerned about what happened to TER 6. And it is right that we warn and want transparency this time and that we want to control the implementation of the project from the very beginning. And know, Minister, even now, at the very beginning when this law is passed, we will insist on monitoring the use of taxpayers' funds for this project. Day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, For every euro, we will make sure that you do not use it for purposes for which it is not intended. And I will not say that I will do it; for this there are institutions, in this country, thank God, we have, and these institutions must carry out their task in monitoring. I am not sure that we must appoint such a different institution to oversee this matter. We've got a lot of them in the country. People get paid well. We also have them in the National Assembly. Also, this body we have — the Commission for the supervision of public finances — has great powers and can also carry out a wide range of controls. It would be irresponsible for me to start discussing how we will drill one tube and then the other tube, where it would be better, below or above. I made a joke with my colleague when I said, "You see, now we can all talk about how it spins. That is what qualified people are to say, who can and how to garden. Here I mean really the holes that are needed to drive the train through them and of course the freight on the train. There have been some encouraging, funny statements today and some of us have even laughed a little, but it may also be good for this ambition sometimes to turn it from pure seriousness to something a little more cheerful, even in jest. After all, this story related to the second track could be discussed until midnight, tomorrow all day and on and on and would probably always come to some of the same points. Now I'm gonna do one cut. I will not mention the parties and the parliamentary groups, but I will say that the representatives of the three parliamentary groups who think that the winners will be in the next elections are currently sitting in this national assembly. And we're all defending the second track. Even those parties who think they're going to be winners at the next election. And of course they start to think, is it wise to start building a second track at this point, because if it starts now, then we won't be able to say that we started building this second track. What do I mean by that? We're thinking politically. Maybe we're thinking a little bit about what's important to the development of this country. When we reflect on who will take over, we do not think maturely enough or think well enough. In order not to talk about politics, I have only said my views on this issue. I would like the second track to begin, not only to say that we will show Slovenia and Slovenia that at some point we are also united and that we want a project that will benefit and develop the economy of society as a whole in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u175	Mr. Matjaž Han, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! There have been some good discussions today, backed by some facts. But there was something about the pyar of debates that had nothing to do with reality and with the matter that we are discussing today. This law, which is before us today, can be viewed from a positive or a negative point of view and debated appropriately; above all, you are discussing which side you are on, whether you are in opposition or in position. But it doesn't matter if you're in a position and if you support the construction of a second track, you're blindly trusting everything that's written down in this law. I, Minister, am even afraid that in a few months we will all be sorry that we went to marriage at all. Maybe a second track without a law could be built, but that's just my intimate opinion. I laughed today when I was watching a little tweeting – as it is called – and I see what you are writing in the Modern Center Party. If you guys put you together, they don't go together. One is saying how you started it, the other is saying how the state space plan was adopted, the third is talking about historic day, it's all funny. Marka Ferlugo, whom I love, would like to inform you that the building permit is not obtained in the G-way library, but the building permit for such a project is somehow obtained over the years. You need a project first, then you have to have a state space plan, then it's nice if you have any more land bought out. And when you have all this together, you get a building permit. You can't get a building permit in the library under the letter G. What I'm saying is that there's been a building permit, maybe all the governments deserve it. Whether this building permit is good, the content of this building permit, and I don't know. The Slovenian Democratic Party is upset about this price and forget to say that their Kekec – writes Kekec, who was director of Infrastructure on Slovenian Railways, the President of the DRI Supervisory Board – confirmed this investment plan, a billion 400. We are all involved in the story of this project, this route and also these prices; except for the United Left, which is a completely new customer. And if they were to rule us, we'd have everything in this country. [[advertising from the hall]] I see a key problem for my concepts in Hungary. Not from a financial point of view. What the Private said before, of course, holds nothing, because eventually we'll have to pay for everything and it'll all go out of the taxpayer's money. I'm talking about Hungary. The more the problem is when we ratify the Interstate Treaty in this National Assembly, what will it say in this Treaty, what Hungarians will require because they will go into this project. And even if we adopt this law today, nowhere else, at least in the SD we will not give a blank signature to an agreement with or to this ratification of Hungary. There, I think, is going to be the key, and there we're going to see these things, what the Hungarians are going to want. The press conference held by the Hungarian foreign minister with Erjavec also gave an idea of where they would go, which way; but I believe that Minister Gasperšič and the team will succeed in negotiating with Hungary and that we will give Hungary as little as possible in exchange for somehow getting these European funds. Around investments, investment prices, it is right that we have the right price, as I know a little about investment, will show the tender and then we will know how much the second track will cost. But these guys in the DRI need to be limited a little bit so that they don't turn the other track into one of their easy-to-live systems for the next 50 years. But that's what needs to be done. Here, I'll tell the Minister he'll know how to hit a table and he'll limit those guys who have big appetites today. If we ask an ordinary builder today, he knows about how much sand costs, how much a rail costs, how much concrete costs, but of course it depends on what happens to these tracks. I'd like to put a lot of emphasis on railway skills, Minister. I have to be honest with you. If anyone knows what is needed, how the second track is needed, this is known by the railway profession, which this second track is used daily, every day. This law, which is ahead of us, I hope that it does not overshadow the issue, as well as the construction of a second track, that we will have two tracks, and even if it will cost 100 million or 200 million, of course, it is wise to make a second track for several reasons. Actually, we were just in the beginning. This law, even if adopted today, will not somehow cover this investment, nor will it bury it. This is only the first phase; you put a large and heavy backpack up at the Ministry of Infrastructure because we have too many questions – Hungary and Europe, whether it will give money or not. And where there is the greatest danger, the minister, where I hope that such matters will not lead to any investigative commission and there will be no police officers driving; these 200 million that the state has given forward, I hope that we will not waste them on building to be seen before the elections. I think that these 200 million are to be kept in order not to be acquired by so-called construction lobbyes, they will be wasted, they will be embedded in some things that will not go in the right direction. And that, Minister, is your responsibility to watch over this 200 million because we only have 200 million. I will support the marriage at this stage, but I must say that this is just the beginning. In the Interstate Treaty with Hungary, however, we will be very careful with the Social Democrats; at that time it will be a matter of national interest and then it will also be an ideology if you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u177	Secretary Peter Gasperšič answers. Excuse me, Minister, the replica has the advantage. I didn't notice. Mr. Daniel Krivec, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. I just agree with the forerunner. Only one thing was not fully understood. If we confirm this marriage, we are in the beginning, but that means the beginning of the works. If you read Article 10 talking about the preparatory works, what is involved, these works will begin because we have started the financial construction, at least the first part, already dedicated and is operational in the budget. I recommend a lot of caution when we talk about supporting this is just the beginning and we will monitor some of it further. This gives us a de facto opportunity to start an investment because certain funds are already available. Don't say the investment didn't start because it started. 51, 52 million are already spent, 190 million in the budget reserved and normal practice in such matters is that preparatory work begins to put pressure on the completion of works so much higher. Another explanation is that no one will think if the law is confirmed that nothing has been done yet. It's actually starting to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u179	Minister Peter Gasperšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I am obliged to answer some more questions that have been explicitly asked; mainly by Mr Krivec's Member of Parliament. He asked me what had happened since he had asked the question, and to this day. Here we had in mind, in particular, that at the end of March, a law was passed on the Government and then forwarded to the National Assembly to initiate the legislative procedure. And I can also say this, this is information from yesterday, I assume that you all already know about it, but yesterday the European Commission had an important meeting of the Committee on Tolling, where, after half a year's coordination and negotiations with the European Commission, a premium on toll was confirmed for freight on Slovenian motorways; at this section from Kopra to Šentrupert. This is an important achievement and already represents one of these important contributions, which the law also provides for. And if I may refer here to what was last said by Mr Han's Member of Parliament, then everything will go well in the final phase of the taxpayer's money. We can say with certainty that this is not true, because the law itself foresees a pretty good part of the inflows by users even then at the time of the second track; it will be quite a good part of these inflows, as I said, at the beginning of the 25 million euro. This will then increase with the growth of the pre-shipment and will greatly relieve the contribution that will have to be made by taxpayers or the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This law provides and these inflows are, if I repeat, a premium on the highway, an increased use on the second track and a duty on transhipment in Luka Koper. If I go back, there were also questions as to where this assessment came from that the second track has 60-80 million benefits at European level. This is the data from the cost-benefit analysis of the project, where this calculation shows that the annual benefit of the project is approximately €80 million, of which about 30% is at the expense of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, while the remaining 60 million of these benefits are achieved in the area outside the Republic of Slovenia; this is the benefits resulting from the reduction of the transhipment if the cargo does not go to the port of Koper, but around Gibraltar to the North Atlantic ports. This is the cost of a lower environmental burden; it is also the cost of energy savings; all of these costs reduced by the cost of investment represent this net benefit. There was also a question of VAT accounting. As it is said, this is based on the European directive, which was then transposed by Article 76a of the Added Value Tax Act, which allows for the calculation of the entry and exit tax for construction services. Here it is possible that the entry VAT received by the company in the accounts at the time of construction will be calculated with the exit tax at the time of operation, as the project company will also issue invoices at the time of operation for its services, the availability or availability of the track. It must also be said that VAT is not a reasonable cost of financing. With this possibility of clearing it, we are not just reducing the investment value itself; we are reducing the need to finance VAT, thus reducing the cost to be financed by the project. There was also a speech that the Commission objected to a public-private partnership with a document. I do not know where this document comes from, but I can say that the entire Juncker mechanism and this investment programme launched by the European Commission is based on the fact that investment projects are activated in addition to budgetary resources and, in addition to European grants, to a greater extent the capital of private investors. Here, the European Commission has taken an important step to include private capital in all these financing mechanisms; therefore, I do not understand where this claim that the Commission opposes public-private partnerships is. I would only mention this because Member Han has commented that he expects me to keep on the watch and worry about the 200 million that will be invested in this project. No doubt, we'll all be taking care of it here. These are the mechanisms of the supervisory institutions. It was already mentioned, the Court of Auditors, Furs and so on. I would also like to say that it is also envisaged that capital deposits will be invested in the company by Slovenia and by the behind countries at the same time. In that part of Slovenia's contribution, it is expected to be followed by deposits from the behind countries. This will also ensure this equality of treatment between Slovenia and the Western countries. Now I would just like to mention the matter which is linked to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I'll talk about it later, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u181	Since there is no longer a desire, I conclude the debate on Articles 43 and 48a. I am putting to the debate Article 47 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Daniel Krivec, please, you have the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you for your input, and then the minister will comment. We have tabled an amendment supplementing Article 47 – Transitional provisions. With the third paragraph, we add a new article which reads: “In the event that 2TKK, the Project Development Company, d. o. o., fails to obtain funds on the tender for CEF funds published in January 2017, the provisions of the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divaca-Koper Railway Line shall cease to apply.” The whole story of the law, as well as the justification drawn up by the Government to deal with this law in an urgent way, is one of the key arguments that irreparable consequences for the functioning of the State will arise if the application is not submitted in time, all the activities for the application for CEF funds are said. If these funds are not obtained, the financial structure as well as the entire law makes no sense; and this amendment will prevent irreparable and harmful consequences for taxpayers. I propose that at least this amendment, which solves the matter if the entire scenario on which the Ministry is speaking is not feasible; then the scenario mentioned by my colleague Han that the whole investment will fall under the burden of the State, at least in this case we propose that the law be repealed or that it ceases to apply, because, as I have said, the key argument, the reason for urgency and urgency is that this is essential to apply for these European funds. In the event that we do not obtain them, we do not need this law either and the whole investment can still take place, but in this case without an unnecessary additional company, an additional law; but just as all infrastructure projects have taken place in the past and in recent times.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u183	Would any of the Members and Members like to discuss this amendment? I can see that. Mr. Ljubo Žnidar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me just complete my colleague Daniel, because the whole Government's explanation of the proposal for this law is an absolute condition for the establishment of a company called 2TKK, which can only apply for European funding. I mentioned earlier in the debate that Brenner has a consortium set up and this consortium has applied for European funds. The Brenner tunnel established a consortium of Austrian and Italian railways and this consortium signed up for a call for European funds. However, the government here strictly states that only 2TKK can be applied as an investor, or that the Republic of Slovenia or its authorities as a key investor cannot apply for the development of the project. I believe that the Republic of Slovenia cannot apply, but can apply either to consortia or to some other form; it is not a strict and only condition. That is why our amendment is, in the event that this fails, a solution that this law is not binding on the remaining areas in the event of failure to apply for the tender. This amendment then relieves all activities, because then this law is no longer necessary, because this is in explanation, as the government states – the only condition of this law is to apply for this European call. I think that a much larger condition for applying to the European call for proposals is the closed financial structure. Last year there was also a European call for tender, but since we did not have a closed financial structure, it was known in advance that this call would fail. The Ministry has provided us with a structure to close this financial structure. Already invested is 5%, 42% capital injections, 25% total European funds, 29% credit and construction is closed. In a way, it is a proposal to close the structure, but that this solution will also be realized, but it is still a very long way to go. Here again the following question and thinking is asked, because at the end of the credit and capital injections will be paid by the State of the Republic of Slovenia, or by 2TKK, to which the state will indicate a monthly or annual annuity of 35 million. And here is the question of how expensive this money will be, with which we will build the second track; and at what price will we return the capital injections. How expensive is this money going to be? Since the annual annuity of the construction of the second track is between 150 million and 210 million, which also depends on the dynamics of the progress of construction works, the question is whether the Republic of Slovenia is really so rich that it will pay capital injections that will be more expensive than the actual ordinary bank credit. Banks in Slovenia have so much money that they do not know where to go with it. They have no market for any plasma, but I know that this is a sovereign debt, that things are not as simple as I said in two words, but that they go on the back and the burden of the state financial budget. This is a capital injection, not the most rational route in the event of a payback by 2TKK, in fact with State money, which is selected from those four sources, which are listed as resources after construction for the entire concession period to be received by 2TKK. The amendment is a very positive approach if the ministry does not succeed in this call for European funds. This is a very step contrary to the fact that the construction project can then take another path in the event that the European funding candidates fail at this year's start-of-the-year invitation to tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u185	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else want to discuss the amendment? Minister? Then I give the floor to Minister Peter Gasperšič. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you, President, for your word. I must say that in the context of the drafting of this law, we have also considered these dilemmas that you highlighted when you proposed this amendment. That is why we have foreseen appropriate solutions in the law itself, so the government or the ministry do not see the need for such an amendment. To clarify, the second paragraph of Article 10 states that individual preparatory works may be carried out by the company before the conclusion of the concession contract. The third paragraph of Article 47, which, while referring to the award of a concession contract to a company, states that the third paragraph of Article 10(2), which states that the preparatory works may commence before the award of the concession, may be initiated by the company by the execution of the preparatory works following the approval of the grant of the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF) in its third tender for 2016. There is a safeguard that, despite the unallocated concession, the preparatory works cannot be started until the grant of European grants is granted. A security guard who ensures exactly what was desired with your amendment, so we estimate that the amendment is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u187	Before concluding the debate, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. I find that no, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item and the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u188	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: agenda items 5, 17 and 2. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Elections to the National Assembly after the shortening of the procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 19. 4. 2017. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 80, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, an individual amendment and a law will be adopted if two thirds of all Members vote for it, that is 60 or more. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 8. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 7 votes in favour and 65 votes in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[There were 65 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 66. [[The vote was 8.]] [[There were 66 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 66. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree on the framework for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2018 to 2020. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the 2nd track of the Divača-Koper railway by emergency procedure. I continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 4. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 43. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 48a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 48a becomes irrelevant. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you, President. With the amendment we are trying to at least partially correct what is supposed to be the control over the implementation of this project. The current government proposal foresees or proposes that the members of the so-called project and financial council to oversee the implementation of the project be composed of five members; four proposed by the competent ministers and appointed by the Minister of Infrastructure and one by civil society. We see this as a democratic deficit, because in fact the body that prepared this project, which will carry out the second track project, will simultaneously control itself, or 2TKK indirectly; but we know what the logic is. We propose that the number of these supervisors, if so called, be maintained equally, i.e. five; but that they be represented by experts on construction issues from the areas of construction, environmental protection, space, economics and law. These candidates would be proposed by the Government and confirmed by the National Assembly. We are thus trying to ensure a certain minimum of democracy and transparency in the monitoring and implementation of this project, and we are also adding the duty to report annually to the National Assembly. Thus, we will have at least a little more control over how this project will proceed, what possible deviations we have heard today during the debate. We believe that in such a cumbersome law, which represents a large number of risks, there is a guardian, such as this democratic control, really the minimum that everyone should accept. In the Group of Members, the United Left will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u190	Mr Jan Škoberne has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, through the debate, we have found that this is an extremely important and extremely demanding project, and above all a very large financial project. During the period of Slovenian transition, it has been shown several times that we have not always been successful or successful enough to ensure, through the transparency of the implementation, procurement and monitoring of projects, what is the fundamental task of each good host. Therefore, it seems important to us that at the point of control of the National Assembly and the Government and in cooperation with civil society, we do everything we need to ensure that the construction project of the second track is not one of those who would have been shown to be a monument to this or to that other independent. That is why we will support the proposal in the Group of Social Democrats. If I paraphrase the river – Among those who think well and want to do well, we should not have a doubter about support; because where there is nothing to hide and where there is no bad intentions, there will also be no problems with control and transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u192	Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the modern centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u193	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We will not support this amendment. I think that several times during the debate it has been explained why we are assessing that the law contains sufficient cauldrons, that some corruption crimes will not occur. As for the amendment itself, however, our position is that it does not eliminate what the proposer claims he would eliminate. Article 43 provides that in order to deal with professional issues and to advise the Minister on the supervision of the implementation of the project, the second indent shall be appointed by the Minister or Minister responsible for infrastructure. It is therefore a world which is designed to address professional issues and not control itself. In the same article, supervision is entrusted to the Minister of Infrastructure himself, so that this amendment does not change anything. Our view is that it is right that the minister himself sets up his own professional council; not that he is appointed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u194	In my own name. So two in their own name. Three. Then go ahead and check in. The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. I'll support the amendment, but the reason is this. Under the current regime, it is envisaged to establish a project-financial council to oversee the construction of a second track, and this project-financial council will have 5 members. Four will propose ministries and only one civil society organisation. And pay attention, all five will be confirmed by the minister in the end. This is about as if the administration itself called the Supervisory Board in a society. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the main reason why those who are not for a full sale, every time we face the issue of state ownership, we listen to how unproductive this is, how it promotes corrupt practices, how all evil lies. And for this simple reason, I will support the issue to ensure at least the minimum transparency and minimum democratic standards here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u196	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you. This selective reading of articles is clearly a very popular practice, as it also states that the project and financial council must give their consent to the investment programme and to the annual and other financial plans to make investments in the second indent before their adoption. It is not only a technical and professional body, but it also plays a very active role in how the project will run. At the same time, you yourself have made a fundamental point of what were the reasons why we tabled this amendment. The project is supervised by the Minister of Infrastructure and this is the heart of the problem. Such a project cannot be supervised by the Minister of Infrastructure, but must be supervised by an external, independent body of experts from various fields, who will also be the most comprehensive and effective supervisor of the project. This is why I repeat; I think that this pair of amendments makes sense because it only introduces a minimum or some basic measure of transparency and democracy into this process. And if those who will implement and watch this programme have nothing to fear, then democratic control is something that must be the basic assumption. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u198	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. I listen to this and actually think about my or our extended family and various political cultures. I have five children and these five children control me and both mothers very intensively. But, unfortunately, Slovenia has not come to a stage of such serious control in a quarter of a century, which is why such amendments are needed. However, this kind of amendment is also needed because if you have read the bill a little more carefully, it is the sums below half a million because it can very quickly become a small amount for someone. Someone from the Modern Center Party suggested to me in the hallway – when you start talking about fiscal policy, sort of; as far as you understand it, it doesn't look like it. This amendment could also be supported by coming out of this story of how the wire was ordered to prove to everyone that you are a nation-turner. When I was visiting Prague, I did not happen to mention any famous speech, unfortunately, already by late President Havl, when he gave an honorary doctorate in Oxford, when he spoke of the importance of statehood and the responsibility of politicians. And this amendment is going this way. And there is some difference between the so-called new policy, which is actually a slightly reinforced transition of old, in terms of ourselves we will supervise ourselves; and some truly new policy, which has been implemented by the United Left for as long as possible in this State Assembly for a third year. Of course I'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u200	Matjaž Hanžek has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you very much. For some time now, as you know, I've been working with Block 6 of Thermal Power Plant Shoštany, and I'm very clear on how different stories work, how information is hidden, that someone can just do their own thing. Many of the people we have heard, including the President of the country, have been drawn from this by the fact that this commission will achieve that these stories will not be repeated and we will do much. Unfortunately, these stories are repeated in the National Assembly, now and at the northern part of the third development axis, where the government has decided against everyone for the second worst variant, as the Minister of Agriculture said. And that's the way this law is – it's sassy, it's blackmailing, it's threatening time distress, it's threatening disaster if we don't accept it. People who doubt the correctness of law enforcement then stigmatize that they are against another track. And in order to do so, the government then proposes such a supervisory authority, which will not control anyone. They have already mentioned, in fact, this supervisory authority is appointed by the Minister; we propose that it be confirmed by the National Assembly. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u202	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 42. (For the vote was 26.)(against 42.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 47. Mr Daniel Krivec has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. We will, of course, support our amendment. However, it is important that the provisions on the construction, management and management of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line cease to apply if 2DKK, which is responsible for this project, fails to obtain funds from the tender for CEF funds published in 2017. This amendment goes in the context of the Government's explanation, which states in its legislation that the urgency of the procedure and the law is necessary for 2TKK to apply for the tender and that we are successful in running for this call. If these conditions are not met, this law is also irrelevant and it is appropriate to cease to apply and to withdraw and implement the project in accordance with all the legislation applicable to infrastructure projects in that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u204	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. As my colleague Daniel Krivec said, I'd give you one comparison. Not only if our country fails to run, it is in this programme, but because we are coming into the original composition because we can build the second track with another company. See, if this were to happen in a highway program, if we didn't get these funds, it would mean that, say, from Lenart to Ptuj the road leg, which would be 27 kilometers long, and that some 3TDK company, which would be Vinko Gorenak and Franz Breznik, would operate with 27 kilometers of a foot of Lenart-Ptuj motorway, and all the other motorways in the Republic of Slovenia would be operated by Dars. That's how I see these 27 kilometers of railroad. Thousands of kilometres are managed by Slovenian Railways, which have their own investment sector; 2TKK, which is supposed to be set up just to get the money from the so-called Juncker Fund, and you have created with two members that you have hired there, who have average knowledge or have no knowledge at all that they are leading large investments. Our amendment is the one that gives a security guard what Comrade Dobovšek most often explains. If you fail, we will return to the original state and start to conduct this project transparently and according to some regulations and standards that are supposed to apply to normal European countries. In normal European countries, however, the country is running and running some major infrastructure projects, and these projects are also being implemented to the end. This is the whole task of the State. Please support this amendment, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u206	We're voting. I'm sorry, I'm hanging up. Did you want more explanations for your voice? Then please report. The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u207	Thank you. We will also support this amendment in the United Left for a simple reason. In the case of TES 6, we could see how the project, which has already occupied, can continue to spin, each time with an argument that too much money has been invested in it to complete it. And here we have the same story. Now the government has put 200 million into 2TKK, then it will not receive funds from Europe and will say that we have already invested 200 million, we cannot suspend the project; and we will have new and new guarantees laws and so on. For caution's sake, since we've had a bit of this mess lately, we'll be supporting things in the United Left. That's the first reason. The second reason is that, after all, the whole argument of the government and the coalition, why we are even adopting this law, is built on the fact that we need this law because we are applying for a European call. This is absurd in itself, because we are applying for a European call for proposals, it writes laws; namely, the laws on projects that weigh one billion euros, and it adopts overnight. To put an end to this absurdity, at least if we do not get a European invitation to tender, we will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u208	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present and 28 votes against 46. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment to Article 43 of the United Left Group has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 48a becomes irrelevant. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors is given by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you. In the Group of Members, the United Left will vote against this law. I think there are enough reasons for today's debate as well. First of all, the very procedure under which this law was brought to the National Assembly clearly shows that even minimum conditions have not been met to address this law at all. First of all, it has uncertain financial implications; second of all, there is no commercial reason for this law to be adopted under urgent procedure. Furthermore, it is so weak and also full of certain doubles or non-excessively specific provisions that clearly indicate that it cannot function as such. On the other hand, we have a lot of excuses from the government why this law is ever adopted. One is that this law can constitute some negotiating ground with the behind countries, which is nonsense; another is that we can complete the financial structure with this law, which is an additional nonsense; and another is that it will make it easier or possible to run for European funds. All these reasons were rejected today on several sides, including in the debate. We have not heard the Minister's strong arguments today why this law is needed, what this law will bring. And, as has been said many times, we are concerned that this law will bring no more than a basic basis for some kind of pair action to be carried out at the end of this mandate, so that the ruling coalition or the Party of the Modern Center can say - We have started with the construction of the second track. In the end, we'll stay with two scenarios. The first is that these 200 million, already in 2TKK, will simply be used and the story will be completed there; the second is that this project will continue on the basis of what is written in the law, and we will probably get to this scenario as well, the new TES 6. And we strongly oppose such laws, in addition to setting up a model that is totally unnecessary, this is a model of public-public partnership, i.e. the participation of a foreign country in this project, which ultimately means nothing but co-management of a foreign country with Slovenian strategic infrastructure; and this at some high price. We know that the law contains the maximum income, i.e. 4,5 % on this contribution that this last country would place in 2TKK and all the other benefits that are planned as a source of income for this company, from the three duties of three state-owned enterprises to the integral budget being paid in 2TKK. These are all the reasons that are still not strong enough, they do not withstand any rational judgment, nor economic at the end; and that is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u210	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Please apply for an explanation in your own name. Matjaž Hanžek has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u211	Thank you very much, President. Of course, I will vote against it because there are many things I do not understand about this law. Some strange procedure that prevents us from being informed at all, even though we have nothing to inform ourselves about, because I don't think even the proposer knows what we're really building, what it's going to cost us, is no control. The arguments I have heard today are mainly, if I simplify, some demagogic floscules such as – The second track will be the sun of our future; or the threat – If there is no second track, it will be a disaster. These are stories, I repeat, I listen to them every day when I read at TES 6. Every time – If you do not do so, it will be a eclipse in Slovenia. And anyone who opened his mouth is, of course, against electricity. It was hiding in the back, there was nothing to know, now it's found that it was overpaid for half a billion, one billion. And here, of course, is the exact same concern. I hope that those who will now vote in favour when there will be another commission of inquiry in the next term on political responsibility in the second rail run will not have the dementia that many of them have at TES 6 when they are interrogated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u212	The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u213	Thank you. Today we have listened again even this afternoon to the government's assurances that with this law the railway infrastructure will remain, I quote, “in our hands” that “the law provides control mechanisms for transparent implementation of the project”. None of this is true. Firstly, the law in Article 19 clearly provides that the owner of the second track will become a company of 2TKK for 45 years. At the same time, the government advocates that the half-owner of 2TKK will be the Republic of Hungary. So the law does not preserve the second track in Slovenian ownership, but for 45 years it is passed on to co-ownership of a foreign country. Secondly, the control mechanisms in this law are extremely flawed. The establishment of a project finance council is envisaged, which I mentioned earlier, which will have five members. Four members will be proposed by ministries and only one civil society organisation, and eventually all 5 will be confirmed by the Minister of Infrastructure alone. The project council will therefore not be an independent body, but an extended deadline for the Ministry of Infrastructure. This is as I said before, as if the management of a certain company named its own supervisory board. Of course I won't support the law. Well, that's not the only reason. The main reasons are three other reasons. Firstly, I will not support the law that provides for the most expensive method of financing. Secondly, I will not support a law that allows foreign countries to blackmail us with demands for tied business and concessions in Luka Koper. Thirdly, I will not support a law that introduces three new public benefits in order to allow a return on capital to a foreign country; and that capital that is really unnecessary, since we have it ourselves, without being in charge of [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u214	The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Beyond all that has been said, it would be imperative that after three quarters of the term of office we withdraw as a legislative body for a few steps and look at what we are doing. In the argument why this law was said to be needed for the negotiating stage and that we need it to get the 250 million we were supposed to get from Europe if we got them, two-thirds of them, because we just need it for "blending". I am a relatively young Member, I am not otherwise young, but I know so much that in some relatively normal parliamentary democracy, you do not need or write the law for what is justified. On the other hand, we will be writing the law when a foreign corporation comes by order; on the third hand, we will have Lex Mercator tomorrow morning at seven in eight articles, which is a total pyar. And I wonder, "People of God, where do I live?Oh, my God! My students would say, I'm sorry – what the fuck. Where do I live?Oh, my God! But you know, we're the legislative body. It doesn't matter what the ministries throw at us in this byte; we are also confused, unfortunately, by a lot of stupidity, because good people are sent to thinking rooms. This is not how parliamentary democracy works. At the same time, we have a whole range of areas, often on purpose, as serious lawyers tell me, cut into two or three laws, then a small million sub-laws are taken over, then two thirds of them turn to the level of municipalities. I will not support this law, for the first time, because it is not the law, it is only a poorly written domestic task on one of the possible funding scenarios, and in particular I will not support it as a protest from what I have said. Let's get started on what our homework is. This definitely isn't it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u216	Since I've seen there's still an interest in explaining your voice on my own, I'm giving you a chance to re-apply. Miha Kordiš has an explanation for the vote in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u217	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. It will take 61 years for the first train to take over the Brcko-Banovici route in November. 92 kilometers of track, 22 bridges, 2 tunnels, built in 6 months, on good faith and on the hacks. The second course of Divaca–Koper measures only 27 kilometers, but the Slovenian authorities have not been able to build it in 20 years. However, when she did decide to do so, she does so in the most impossible way possible. And if the construction of the historical line Brcko-Banović can be measured in months, the apparent construction of the second track can be measured in commissions. The government is proposing the most expensive possible option of building this track, it says that today's law is necessary to apply for European calls, which has proved to be false. With this law, we would like to recruit our own overseers, who look under their fingertips; and we do not even have a closed financial structure. If you like to say the block of 6 Thermal Power Plant Šostanyj, that the only hybrid power plant in the world is because it burns half of the coal and half the euro, we will probably be able to claim something similar in a few years also for the second track, because the train that will run across this second track will drive on Hungarian dividends, government stupidity and Slovenian citizen minus in the gym. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-20-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u218	We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 24. [[The vote was 49.]] . [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
