ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 31st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mirjam Bon Klanjšček from 1:00 p.m., Vesna Vervega until 1:00 p.m., Irena Grošelj Kosnik until 3 p.m., Bojana Muršič until 3 p.m., Marija Bačič until 3 p.m., Janez Janša, Primož Hainz from 11 p.m. to 14 p.m., Luka Mesec to 10.30 p.m. and from 4.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., Jože Hanžek to 1 p.m., Marko Ferluga to 12 p.m., Branko Zorman to 2 p.m., Roberto Battelli, Matthew T. Vatovec to 13 p.m., Miha Kordiš to 16 p.m., Jože from 16 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 15. This is for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. On 30 May 2017, the Council of State adopted, at its 29th extraordinary session, a request that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before the announcement on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Milan Ozimić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, representatives of the Government! The Council of State has adopted a request for the National Assembly to decide again on the amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. The reason for the veto, although the average of three and a half euros is raised for the municipalities, is of course a question, but the State Council is already constantly adopting laws on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for years, which are the subject of specific laws, problems determining the amount of the average. Because, as it is, it does not cover funds for the legal performance of the duties of the congregations. This is a recurring story that does not receive an appropriate response and epilogue in the solution to this problem, which is very difficult and, of course, essential for the functioning of the municipalities, for the execution of their mission, so that, in addition to the quality of the performance of the statutory municipalities, they also take care of the development in their territory. This is a key issue and also a key reason for re-voting the veto to the law amending the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is not some sort of speculation or whatever, but it is again some seriously reasoned warning that in this area, in an agreement between the Government and the municipalities, this problem needs to be resolved soon as soon as possible, because it is a strong bar of development if you want to develop Slovenia as a whole evenly. This requirement for higher funds is not about increasing spending or spending, some luxury. It is the fact that the funds that municipalities have as intended for development for the maintenance of infrastructure, for the construction of infrastructure, for the creation of conditions for the implementation of various activities at local level are not spent to cover the statutory tasks that the State has set out to be carried out by the municipalities. Here is the heart of the problem, there is also a key reason, there is also this constant repetition, because this is not the first requirement or the first explanation that would now be a surprise. In fact, this has been happening all the time since ZIPRS, as a law on budget implementation, bypassed the Systemic Law on Community Financing, which provides that the average should be around 20% higher. The one now defined is behind about a hundred euros behind what is set out in the Systemic Law on Community Financing. In the arguments why this is the case, it is always heard that we have a fiscal rule and that the municipalities here must bear the appropriate proportion. The municipalities, of course, bear this proportion in this Stability Pact and have also benefited from this reduction and have applied it. Nevertheless, this backlog is disproportionate even if you want to, with these definitions which the State has accepted as a commitment. The municipalities are aware of this, but the gap is disproportionate, the gap causes a major problem, and if this continues and if there is no serious response and a solution to this problem, then Slovenia as a whole will suffer a great deal of damage, especially the backlog in development. So, that's a serious warning again. The Council of State does not imagine that this veto will be successful, but it expects that this constantly recurring issue will only once reach those and that it will be dealt with with with with the whole seriousness of the problem, which cannot be covered by the sealing of the eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u3	It was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Hello, everybody! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 38th session. 6. 2017 as a parent working body considered the request of the Council of State to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2017 and 2018 submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted by the National Assembly 24. 5. 2017 at the 30th meeting. The following materials have been forwarded to the Committee for consideration: the request of the Council of State, the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. Representatives of the State Council, the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the introduction, the rapporteur of the State Council, on behalf of the applicant, explained the request of the State Council for re-decision on the law and presented their key arguments in detail. These arguments were presented earlier today, and I will not repeat them at this point. The representative of the Ministry presented the Government's written opinion. In addition, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained in the supplementary explanation of the opinion that the State Council's arguments in the request for re-decision relate to questions relating to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the arrangements to which the service cannot be defined, as they go beyond the scope of the tasks imposed on the Service by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the debate, the opinions of the members and members of the Committee on the adequacy of the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 were different. Some agreed with the opinion of the Council of State because they believe that the European Convention on Local Self-Government is being violated and that this affects coherent regional development and quality of life in municipalities. Some supported the bill because it raises the average, but they felt that it could not yet be a final solution. They also considered that the current fiscal rule could not be an excuse for the size of the average for municipalities and that human rights and the rights of local communities were above the fiscal rule. They considered the financial crisis to be overcome, but Slovenia remains a high burden of annual interest on borrowed funds. Some members pointed out that the methodology for calculating the average needs to be redefined, to better reflect the actual situation in the municipalities and to take account of their diversity. Because there are very large differences in the congregations and the associated varying levels of appropriate spending. The Ministry’s representative then responded to the question raised and provided additional information. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, by a majority of the votes of all members, 12 with no objection, that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u5	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance mag. Sasha the Badger.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u6	Dear Members and Members! At its extraordinary meeting on 30 May, the Council of State voted to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. The Council of State does not agree with the proposed increase in the average for 2017, as it considers that this does not fully cover the higher costs of the work of public servants resulting from the Government's December agreement with the social partners. It is also clear that the proposed increase in the average does not take into account the diversity of municipalities and thus their various financial needs. The annual obligation to determine the average in the annual law is laid down in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which provides that the average shall be determined by the National Assembly by law governing the implementation of the State budget. It is calculated in the manner laid down in Article 12, and the Law on the Financing of the Communities itself travels to take other circumstances into account in the calculation. This is based on Article 11 of the ZFO, which provides that before the submission of the State budget to the National Assembly, the Government shall conclude an agreement with the representative associations of the municipalities. In setting the average, the constitutional commitment to the fiscal medium-term balance of the budgets of the State sector is also crucial, with expenditure limitation being divided among all institutional units and therefore taking into account the share that municipalities must contribute to the consolidation of public finances. This is based on several decisions of the Constitutional Court, which state budget as a government instrument in implementing macroeconomic policy to achieve fiscal stability and sustainable and stable national economic development, which is in the interest of the State as a whole, and also that this objective must be adapted to the economic and fiscal policies of the municipalities. The change in the average for 2017, as set out in the proposed law, is based solely on additional labour costs obligations. This means that an increase in labour costs was already taken into account on average at EUR 530 compared to 2016 and an increase in the average of an additional EUR 3 and a half is only a calculation of the average costs resulting from the content of the agreement between the social partners last December. The way in which municipalities are financed, as laid down in the system law, allows only for the taking into account the average costs of financing municipal tasks and at the moment there is no legal basis to allow a different methodology to finance the tasks of municipalities under the applicable rules. The calculation of the proposed average took into account the assessment of the increased labour costs at local level for 2017 based on the level of resources allocated by municipal budgets to both direct users and through transfers or payments of service prices to indirect users of the budget. Taking into account the above, it was estimated that the agreement with the social partners would result in higher municipal budget expenditure of around €6 million, which would mean that the average should increase by 3 euros in 2017, so the government, with a proposed 3.5-euro increase, will fulfil its promise. A model of funding for municipalities is established in Slovenia, which can be further improved by the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. However, when preparing any changes, it will have to be taken into account that the fiscal rule raised to the constitutional level binds the same state budget and all other budgets of institutional units, including municipalities, to the limitation of expenditure despite the favourable economic results. It is not to be forgotten that, in addition to this topic, the law also provides for a higher annual allowance for all pensioners, as it allows for more efficient implementation of the national budget, so I propose that the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018 be re-supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u7	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr. Franc Jurša has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u8	Your Honor, have a nice good day, especially a little colder! We have before us a bill that we will once again support in the Desus Group. Looking at the wider picture of public finances, otherwise it is showing better, but we still need to reduce the structural deficit. However, due mainly to the insistence of the Desus Group, this time we have managed to provide an annual allowance for those pensioners who receive a pension of more than €760. They will receive an annual allowance of €90. For the other classes, the prices for obtaining a certain amount of the annual allowance will rise up according to January harmonisation and the amounts will increase compared to 2016. In addition, I would like to add that in recent months, we have been looking forward to seeing how the care of pensioners is increasingly being taken by other groups of Members. This makes us immensely happy, inspiring, because everything shows that we will have tremendous support in the future in ensuring their rights. Otherwise, in Desus in this government, we have already three times ensured the coordination of pensions and believe me that it is not easy to be the one who always walks on the edge of budget coordination, but coordination with appropriate economic growth has been promised in the coalition contract, and that is why we insist on them. Of course, they are not alone in the government and it is normal that we do not always agree. Even at the opening of Pandora's expenditure box at the end of 2016, we resented, but on the other hand we immediately reacted and demanded regression for all pensioners and thus succeeded. Your Honor, there's something else I'd like to add. I am convinced that all of us here are aware that the fiscal rule is an important measure, which we have decided when we realize that there was no better solution then. We know it's a serious commitment, not a drawing of big and smaller bullets. This is probably clear to anyone who has ever planned a budget at any level. The consequences of the horrendous bank hole had to be remedied, and if anyone, Desus, when writing down the fiscal rule into the constitution, had concerns about how this would affect social life in our country, but with the deliberate management of this boat, which we call a state, we were successful and could even relax the measures that we took with a shaking hand for a certain period of time, but were necessary. Once again, the law will be once again supported and we are pleased that in the future we can count on wider support for the adoption of legislation that will enable pensioners to live better lives within fiscal constraints.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u9	Mr Janko Weber, a group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, we will re-vote for the law, as we urgently need it for the implementation of the budget, which is essential for us to be able to meet all the challenges that are actually recorded in this budget. However, in view of the request for re-decision on the bill passed by the Council of State, we feel that we are again faced with warnings that the municipalities, although an average increase of 3.5 euros has been agreed, are not satisfied with what has been agreed and that they want to fully comply with the Law on Community Financing so that they can fully fulfil their tasks. When we touch upon the demands of the State Council, we can see that they are thinking that a new way of financing the congregations because of their diversity should also be arranged, and this is one of the most challenging tasks that, if we go into such a change, we can accept, but in no case will we be fully satisfied or completely satisfied with the congregation. However, it is crucial that the law adopted is in particular respected and implemented. And perhaps it is only for consideration because, however, it is stipulated in the Law on the Financing of the Communities that the annual amount of the average shall be determined in the law on the implementation of the State budget. This is actually the withdrawal of the autonomy of local self-government that the State takes right in the Law on the Financing of Municipalities. Perhaps in a very short time it would be really necessary to consider whether the Law on the Financing of the Communities would change precisely this point, which obliges the average to be adopted in the law on the implementation of the budget. It would probably make more sense that it would have been written in such a way that if negative economic growth were recorded twice in a country, then the State or the National Assembly could reach an average level, otherwise, if economic growth is positive, this should not have been allowed. This is only one possible quicker solution than the entire amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities and would certainly lead to the failure to meet the ever-increasing requirements for re-decision on the law on the implementation of the budget. With regard to the municipalities and their other development tasks and thinking about what they can do for their citizens and citizens, we would like to point out once again that, however, there will be a substantial number of efforts to ensure that European funds are used to their success, and that this is an opportunity that can provide us with even greater economic growth and thus a higher gross domestic product, and thus, of course, the previous possibility of fully implementing the Law on Community Financing in the current content as it is in force. However, it should also be pointed out in these discussions that we also respond to warnings from the Council of State about municipalities establishing more public institutions in order to provide services for their citizens and citizens. Public institutions are often established in municipalities that are not intended to provide public services to citizens and citizens, but to provide a number of other interests which, in fact, by providing a service to citizens and citizens, have nothing but a great cost to the community. Here, it would also be necessary to clear the criteria, when and how many such institutions, which are not necessarily necessary to serve citizens and citizens, can establish municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the Socialists of the proposal, just as we did not support it in the regular procedure. For we are opposed to the social and non-developmental budgetary policy implemented by this law. In five minutes, it's hard to explain what's wrong, but I can tell the main problems. The first problem is that the coalition systematically reduces income for those with the highest wages and maintains low taxation of capital and high value assets. The coalition would therefore like to reduce the deficit quickly, but at the same time it is reducing budget revenues. However, if you reduce your income, you can reduce your deficit only by limiting your income. And here's another problem. Limitation of expenditure is an excuse for restricting rights. Due to the budgetary policy of this government, almost 40,000 people today must survive from 293 euros per month. Due to the artificial lack of resources, the Government wants to leave half of the second track to Hungary. Not to mention the state of health or pensions. The common cause of all these problems is the Government's intention to privatise as much of the public sector as possible. Our public sector is already significantly smaller than, say, Austria by about 5 percentage points of GDP. If the government fulfils its promises to the European Union under the Stability Programme, it will shrink by a further 3 percentage points. But you can only do that by leaving parts of the public sector to capital. Besides, we have another problem. The coalition is squeezing the public sector as a whole, but at the same time intends to increase its share of the military. Not only do we have a smaller public sector, such as Austria, but even within our sector, the repressive authorities already have a significantly higher share than social policy and health. And this relationship is supposed to get worse. Here we have an example of what it means to have commitments to NATO and to the European Union prioritise citizens' well-being and commitments to their own people. The government has promised privatisation and austerity to the European Union, promised NATO investment and arms, and will result in the poverty of those sectors that depend on the welfare of the state and the citizens. Of course, we do not intend to support such policies in Levica. Finally, I would point to another harmful provision of this law, namely restrictions on employment in the public sector. As you know, most cleaners, security guards or support staff are employed by external contractors. Last year, the media reported a lot about cleaners who worked in the ministries and even at the labour inspectorate in black and did not receive a legal payment. The best solution to this problem is to hire these workers where they already work, and this law still, unfortunately, prevents them. I can give two concrete examples, the Bank of Slovenia and the University of Ljubljana. In the Faculty of Philosophy we would like to hire cleaners directly, but in this case we would violate the Staff Plan and in Banka Slovenije we would even like to re-source cleaning in order to hire more officials. At least what the Government should do with this novelty would be that the employment of support staff would not be included in the same quota as the employees performing the basic activity. In this way, it would enable normal employment for workers who are now severely neglected. Finally, there are congregations. The Court of Auditors recently published an audit report on the mandatory tasks of municipalities. What's he telling us? Both the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance do not really know what the mandatory tasks of the congregation are. There is no adequate communication between the Ministry and the Government is only partially aware of this. In short, total chaos. And who will answer? We are all citizens and citizens. We've asked Koprivnik on his left many times to fix it, but he prefers to have a binge on helicopters. But Minister Gregor or the coalition is nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u13	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u14	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! The law ahead of us is a change to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018, bringing about two key changes, the most important of which are also speeches. It increases the average for municipalities from €530 per head to €533 and increases the annual pension allowance by €10. This law has been vetoed by the State Council and we understand this veto, and we also support the reasons why the State Council vetoed this law, but of course the final vote means that if the veto were to succeed in this law, there would not be at least an increase of EUR 10 per year and there would not even be an increase in principal or average for the municipalities by EUR 3 per half. This is an extremely low amount, but despite all that, this is better than nothing, and this is why the parliamentary group will not be able to support these things, nor will it oppose them. Now it is essential that we understand the State Council and why we understand that they have vetoed, especially by referring to the averages for the congregations. The municipalities are one way or another a driving force for development in Slovenia. If you look at the countryside, if you look at the different ends of Slovenia, you can find that Slovenia has progressed over the last 25 years, at least as far as regional development is concerned. All this progress has been made by the congregations. The municipalities were the ones that made the key investments to improve the infrastructure, to have the roads and villages today, the sidewalks, while perhaps 25 years ago they did not even have paved roads. In recent years, however, the trend has been marked by the fact that the state is constantly imposing additional obligations and tasks on the municipalities, but it does not provide adequate resources for this. Of course, this €533 and a half will not solve the situation, because according to the associations of different municipalities, the correct average would be more than €600 per citizen and not just €533 per half. It seems to me that this government coalition wants to do in such a sophisticated way what Minister Virant's plan was, in some ways, to reduce the number of municipalities. He wanted to do it by law, this government coalition wants it by funding the municipalities. If the municipalities do not have money for investment, of course, many will wonder what the purpose of the smaller congregations is, and suddenly pressure will be exerted to reduce the number. We oppose this and all the time we claim that the municipalities are the key guarantor who can provide a coherent regional development that can ensure that differences between parts of the municipality continue to decline and that, above all, young people remain in places where they were born where they grew up. As far as the annual allowance is concerned, it is likely that these ten euro pensioners will not solve their problems. This is money for all two lunches, and if the pensioners really want to secure the decent pensions that they certainly earn after 40 years of hard work, then they should pursue that the lowest pension should be placed on the poverty threshold. So what the state prescribes is a minimum for survival should also be a minimum pension. In this case, today this would mean €617. If we want to do this, it is clear that the pension system needs changes because the current system is unrestrained, and if we are looking for solutions within the existing pension system, these will be particularly negative, so in New Slovenia we have proposed a pension reform proposal, which is looking for solutions beyond this and is modelled on Scandinavian countries. So these are the real solutions that we have to pursue, but of course we cannot solve the problem with 10 euros of the supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u15	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u16	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, president, secretary of state! We have before us the veto of the State Council on the law which should be a technical law for the implementation of the state budget, and the hand on the heart for many years is not just that, it is a number of substantive things. I understand the mayors, I understand the municipalities, I understand the Council of State, but if this amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget was not approved and enforced, the municipalities would get less than they will get with this change. That is why the law on budget implementation, as in the adoption process, will receive our support today, but it is, of course, important to note that the Government must respect the Law on the Financing of Communities. When we spoke on the committee about this veto, it was clear that the Government was aware that it did not respect the Law on the financing of municipalities, which was in a way unacceptable, and I would like to see the law respected, in particular, that for 2018 and further find a common word with the municipalities, as well as a consensus on the level of the average. And the second thing covered by this law on the implementation of budgets is an annual allowance for pensioners. Hand to heart, more than under the basic law, but in some ways I am sad or disappointed that, despite the high economic growth of the government and the coalition, high tax revenues cannot be found for the budget of a truly modest 21 million and that we finally stop saving in pensioners. Pensioners contributed a lot during the crisis, that is a fact, and we must all be grateful for it together. We could – we have tabled a proposal and unfortunately we have not been heard – have found this money already this year. 21 million inside 9 billion and a half are not that much money, and if the government found it for the military, it is probably right that it is, it should be found for pensioners, and unfortunately it is not. But once again, it's better than the previous law now in force. As I have already said, regardless of these comments, we will support the law in our parliamentary group for the first time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again! Today, as we have heard, we are again deciding on the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. For the Council of State has voted that it must be decided once again by the National Assembly before the promulgation of this law. It follows from the opinion of the Council of State that, despite the higher average proposed for 3.5 euros, this does not follow the actual needs and obligations of the municipalities, since it does not fully cover all the costs of the work of public servants resulting from the agreement of the Government with the social partners. It also follows from the request of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia that the financing of municipalities is unregulated and unstable, as the Systemic Law on the Financing of Municipalities in this Part is not respected and is affected by the annual amendments to the annual laws on the implementation of the State budget. It is true that the annual obligation to establish the average in the annual law is laid down in Article 12, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which provides for the average to be determined by the National Assembly by law governing the implementation of the State budget. The reason for the link between the two laws is that it is also about setting the average for content that needs to adapt annually to all circumstances and changes. In the SMC Group, we believe that changes to the Law on Community Financing are also necessary due to warnings from local communities. It is not to be overlooked, however, that the Court of Auditors, which follows from their recently published report, found that the Government was only partially effective in financing the appropriate use of municipalities in 2014 and 2015. However, the findings of the Court of Auditors are aimed at the purpose of both competent ministries, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration, to supplement the rules governing the Community funding system by clearly laying down the procedures for setting the average and taking into account the macroeconomic circumstances in the country. Also by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the rules on sub-programmes to be taken into account for the determination of the average will be amended so that the new act will specify in more detail the mandatory municipal tasks on the basis of which the average is determined. In the SMC Group, we expect creative cooperation and coordination from both ministries in the implementation of final solutions, in particular with local communities. The municipalities point out that everything has changed considerably since the implementation of the current system in the field of local self-government, in the field of the tasks and competences of the municipalities, in the field of technological development, in the field of the expectations of citizens and citizens. They caution that this should also be followed by changes in the formula for the calculation of funds. We therefore expect more than the necessary reflection, a serious review of the tasks performed by the municipalities and the associated running costs of their operations, which must be approached by the model of funding for the municipalities themselves. Respected, the proposed law should, in fact, be a technical law allowing the implementation of the budget in the current year, and this time, in part, prescribes, if I say so, the rules for the implementation of the budget, in addition to which it brings three other important elements to our assessment. Firstly, the proposed solution allows up to 70% advance payments for projects that have been successful in public calls for NGOs, when the contract price does not exceed EUR 20 000 and when the project is fully implemented in the current year. With this solution, we are tackling the problems of smaller NGOs, which, after the current regulation, must advance funds and do not have them for the most part, since they are small companies based on voluntary work, but at the same time make a significant contribution to social and cultural life and contribute to the mitigation of social pressures in individual communities. Secondly, due to the already mentioned reason for the agreement concluded with the social partners, the average of municipalities increases by 3.5 euros. Thirdly, this proposal changes the regulation of the annual pension allowance for 2017 and allows all pensioners to benefit from the proposed solutions to the annual allowance. For these reasons, we will re-support the proposal of the SMC Group today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u19	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u20	Dear President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. The fact is, the Council of State has adopted a veto on the proposed law. It should be pointed out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting this law, we have tabled an amendment proposing that the average for municipalities for the financial year 2017 should increase to EUR 547 and increase to EUR 562 for the financial year 2018. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that such an average for municipalities would be fair. Unfortunately, the coalition has not adopted this proposal and it is important that the proposed law for 2017, 2018 in some way only raises part of the revenue that the municipalities will receive. On the other hand, according to the veto voted by the Council of State, we have decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will not support these proposals of law, but we will not oppose them.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u21	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The re-decision on that law will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the top of the agenda, this is a first-hand proposal for an architectural and engineering law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, the 52 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Mrs Irena Majcen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u22	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for an Act on architectural and engineering activities follows the principles of transparency, clarity and certainty of the conditions for the performance of the profession and activities, the responsibility of the authorised architects and engineers, their independence and independence, the representativeness of the competent professional chambers, non-discrimination, the economy of procedures, the protection of the public interest and consumer protection. It regulates the conditions for the conduct of professions and activities in this field, including the organisation and functioning of the competent professional chambers, the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia and the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. Subject-matter regulation is thus exempt from the current Construction Act and regulated in a stand-alone law. The adoption of the law achieves the objective of the 10th government strategic project, namely the renewal of regulated professions and activities. The government has taken into account the recommendations on assembly arrangements, the professional initiative to regulate this area and the requirements of European legislation regarding the recognition of professional qualifications and services in the internal market. In particular, the law provides for a smaller number of regulated professions than the current law, namely the proposed regulation of the following professions: an authorised architect, an authorised engineer, an authorised landscape architect and an authorised spatial planner. The law also newly includes an authorised geodesy engineer among authorised engineers following the example of other European countries, which extends to the regulations of the Real Estate Registration Act, the Geodetics Act and the Law on the State Geodetic Reference System by bringing the three regulated professions together into one regulated profession. For each regulated profession, the law lays down in detail the conditions for obtaining powers, defines professional tasks and proposes the protection of titles for individual regulated professions. With a view to enhancing the quality of the provision of architectural and engineering services, the law prescribes, while preserving acquired rights as a novelty, in particular: mandatory continuing professional training under the programme and rules adopted by the competent professional chambers, with the possibility of disciplinary action by the chambers; systematic order; extraordinary and remedial professional supervision of professional chambers, which will allow more effective disciplinary prosecutions of infringements of the rules of the profession and of the ethical code; second bologna level as an entry point for obtaining powers; reduction of the requirement for practical experience for two years to account for stricter regulation of the acquisition of such experience under the guidance or mentorship of the authorised architect or engineer. The proposed regulation of activities and the establishment of a link between the performance of the profession and activities is a result of an analysis of the legal arrangements of the Member States of the European Union, which has shown that Slovenia is one of the rare countries without such regulation, and an analysis of the professional chambers which has shown an irregular situation in this area. An additional one-year adjustment period is foreseen for existing economic operators and their adaptation to additional requirements. The possibility of optional protection of the title for economic operators is also envisaged if they fulfil even more stringent conditions, namely the prescribed 50 % ownership and employment by authorised architects and engineers and the company's non-relationship, which will allow for a reference list of economic operators with a higher degree of independence and thus a higher quality of services. In the organisation of the competent professional chambers, the law generally retains the applicable arrangements and does not provide for major changes, except for the extension of the mandate of the assembly and other assembly bodies and certain additions and amendments to the conduct of disciplinary proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u23	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Before us today is the first in a series of three laws, which in fact mean not even a small one, but a comprehensive reform in the area of space regulation, building of buildings and the related regulation of professional activities and the education system, which binds to this extremely wide area. This is one of the priority threes of the laws, as is the case with the coalition treaty that we have committed ourselves to taking steps forward in our society. One of the main perceptions of both domestic operators and potential foreign investors in the past was that the implementation of investments in Slovenia was bureaucraticly too difficult, especially in the area of space and building. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, in the case of the law before us today, as in the case of the construction law following in the next paragraph, and of course the law on regulating the space that we are expecting in the autumn, it is not about bureaucratic reduction of barriers, which would also mean lowering standards, both environmental, spatial and educational, but also as opposed to the desired objectives. In order to simplify procedures to protect both operators and users, and in particular to eliminate the burdens that many have faced in the construction process today have been a barrier to such order that investments have not been decided, and as a result the important potential of both growth in the economy and the consequent increase in living standards and employment has been lost in Slovenia. If I focus on the law before us at this point, namely the Act on Architecture and Engineering, as the Minister has already said in the opening presentation, I can find that this is a law governing the system of conditions and procedures for obtaining licences and authorisations and, of course, in the next step, their proper use and supervision for the proper exercise of the powers under the title of the titles to be obtained. The law provides for four regulated professions, i.e. an authorised architect, an authorised engineer and an authorised landscape architect and an authorised spatial planner, with the law governing all forms of service provided within the regulated profession. What remains open after this general debate and which will directly need to be addressed and can pose an important challenge not only for the Ministry of the Environment and Space, in particular for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, and in this context also for the Slovenian Qualifications Framework, is the fact that the law in all four regulated professions retains the requirement of the second Bologna level, which is supposed to be based on the current current Slovenian Qualifications Framework and the way in which we transposed the relevant and relevant European Directive in the Republic of Slovenia. It should be stressed, however, that this standard applies only to companies and individuals established in the Republic of Slovenia and that all foreign competitors may be subject to one level of lower criteria and requirements. This, of course, represents a potential threat to the competitiveness of our designers, engineers and architects, and in this point, the Social Democrats point out that this issue will need to be regulated as soon as possible in the relevant law if it is not already within the legislative competence of this Ministry and it will not be possible to regulate it under this legislative procedure. We fear that, at least in public calls, comparable design and engineering companies from abroad, such as the Federal Republic of Germany, which has the required standard of the first Bologna level for the same order of regulated professions, could constitute unfair competition in a regulated environment governed by the law. This, of course, is something we do not want, and we will also draw attention to in the second reading, and this is something that the Government will also have to face seriously. Otherwise, the law before us today supports the same law at the next point, and as has already been said, because it is a trifle of laws that together regulate a difficult and important area, we want the law on space regulation to be completed as soon as possible by government inter-ministerial coordination and to come to our bench. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u25	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! The troika of spatial legislation, which of course needs reflection, innovation, is ahead of us, and in fact we have a very important topic today, although we are less present in the Chamber. Why? We are not only Members and Members, we are citizens and citizens who live in certain municipalities. There was an audit report that Violet mentioned that the department doesn't even know how many mandatory duties there are in the municipalities, but at the same time we are all beings who live in the space, the time that are the cantov aprioral categories of the spirit. What does that mean? This means that this is an area where we should actually go beyond this — sometimes under the rank of mangers — and I would not like to be insulting to the little ones — the state of political culture or nonculture in the National Assembly. Following is the position of the United Left on the first law and, hopefully, some more serious debate. Before I start, there's something I'd like to say. Years ago, just before I came to Parliament, I read how Parliament's current reference to the United Kingdom island, a part that sits on the Infrastructure Committee, and a few others, went to 14-day education on urbanism and architecture. I think it would be necessary to do so in this National Assembly, because here, if I consider a colleague of Baneta, who is an architect, a colleague of Vanč, who dealt with infrastructure, my minority, a few people, mostly from the SDS, who were still mayors, we will somehow come – even the former mayor of Desus, who, my colleague, looks a little aside – up to the number 10, 12, while the rest of you have little knowledge about this important issue and should now follow such practices of foreign parliaments, have additional education. In short, a promised position that I will read because I am commanded to do so. Sometimes even I follow orders. Calls in the field of architecture and engineering are professions of express public interest. This is revealed as the creation and care of the culture of the country and also concerns responsibility for the protection of the construction and users of buildings and infrastructures. The expression of public interest dictates the need for adequate protection and independence of architects, engineers, other spaces and spaces, which is achieved through regulation, with appropriate and well-thought legislation. The law under consideration lays down the conditions for the exercise of professions which are still regulated by the Construction Act. As a sociologist, I'd say professions, not professions. The new law abolishes professions, professions of responsible spatial planner, responsible designer, responsible auditor, responsible supervisor and responsible director of parts and three professions in the field of geodetic activity. It also introduces the professions of an authorised architect, an authorized engineer, an authorised landscape architect and an authorized spatial planner. The law regulates the forms of provision of services in which these professions may carry out tasks falling within the scope of their professions. In Levica we find with regret that, although the law also regulates the profession of the authorised landscape architect or architect, this profession in this and the other two laws, which are a package of this spatial building legislation, is on the side track and does not foresee the use of all the knowledge that landscape architects and architects have. In this part, of course, the law is flawed and will need to be duly amended in further consideration. The Construction of Buildings Act also transposes the provisions on the functioning of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia and the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia into the new law. In most cases, it is a matter of maintaining the applicable arrangements in operation, with the exception of certain amendments relating to the extension of the mandate of the assemblies and bodies of the Chamber, and certain additions to the conduct of disciplinary procedures. A minor change also concerns the payment of membership fees in the Chambers. The proposal for a law does not explain anywhere the need to amend the existing system, and we therefore expect further clarifications from the competent ministry and the Minister. The law, which regulates architectural and engineering activities on behalf of the public interest, does not address the problem of increasing precarnation at any point. Less and less architects, landscape architects and other space and space, especially under 40 years of age, are actually employed and adequately insured. More and more forced espions because there are no more regular jobs. Madam Minister said the law was non-discriminatory. It is discriminatory because it does not answer that question. In short, we have a package of three laws, and none of these issues are addressed properly. How can we expect people whose profession is regulated – in some people's view, I have had quite a heated debate on this with all these people, even perhaps overly normal – to work properly and care for the public interest in criminal conditions? Despite these concerns, we will support the law in the first reading in Levica because we believe that it is a step in the right direction. We will, of course, amend it, and I really hope that our amendments will receive adequate support. More in the debate. There's only one thing I'd like to say from this place. The speaker before me is an important topic. Based on the position of a spatial sociologist and a perfox who has been teaching or teaching and at architecture and at the study of ecology and municipal engineering and elsewhere, I personally believe that these professions should have a single five-year master's degree due to the importance I have already mentioned and that in considering the recruitment of these professions we should consider any other professions necessary for architecture, urbanism, space. If I mention just one, also someone from ALU who knows chromatics and something else. In short, this law will be supported in the first reading, in the second marriage we will be maintained, and I will explain why and more in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u27	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u28	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Colleagues, Colleagues and Colleagues! As the speakers have already said, today we have the first of three laws on spatial and building legislation. In my opinion, it is a wrong order because the roof law is the law on regulating space or amending the current Law on Spatial Planning, then the construction law and finally the regulated professions, or who will be responsible for doing so. I also think that the mistake is because we have an unenviable situation on the ground — more than tens of thousands of black buildings, and a total of about 300,000 buildings built in non-compliance. One set of obstacles is this legislation, since the municipalities that should have adopted municipal spatial plans by 2009 — nine years after the deadline of 2009 — have only 150 out of 212 municipalities. Why not? A lot of questions, obviously because this marriage wasn't the best. We also have a problem with records, both in the collection of compensation for the use of building land and in the new European law or tax, this is a property tax which has been abolished in the Constitutional Court mainly because we do not have the right records. In my opinion, we should first find out what the legal situation is on the ground. I've been listening to this a decade and a half ago when we were talking about changing this legislation, so we need to first look into the situation on the ground, and we need to fix it. Most of the countries of the former Yugoslav State have accepted this. First, the law on legalisation to remedy the actual current situation, and then the adoption of better legislation that will prevent further black construction or construction contrary to regulations, since the wishes of citizens, citizens, citizens must be respected. I don't think these 300,000 buildings were built just like that, for no reason or benefit. Therefore, legislation should be amended in such a way as to ensure that as many wishes as possible and also the objectives that this society has, are achieved and done legally, legally. This would also benefit the municipalities and the state. Today we have the first and second marriages, and the third probably next month, the last one I think is the most problematic of all three. However, I do not report this to the manufacturers because I think they have done their best and they have the right models, but the interests of not telling the lobby are determined, even so strong, that they have prevented a more radical change in this legislation, which would produce better results. I may be wrong, and in a regular procedure that is a little longer, we will have more opportunities to discuss and correct this. However, the next government will probably have to take a step further in order to be similar to the developed European countries and to arrange it this way. Let me move on to today's law. Quality architecture is economical, healthy, safe and environmentally friendly. Planning, designing and building buildings and regulating premises provide high quality accommodation for all residents of the Republic of Slovenia and increase national wealth and therefore quality architecture is in the public interest. Architectural and engineering activities promote sound economic growth of society, the development of construction and investment. The basis of quality architecture is regulation of the status of professions and activities. The architectural and engineering professions must operate both in the interest of the contracting authority and in the public interest. The first attempt to regulate this area was between 2007 and 2008, after public consideration, it was assessed that the area of architecture could not be regulated separately, as this would lead to the collapse of the system of regulation of professions and activities. It was therefore decided that all regulated occupations and activities in the area of the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings should be dealt with in a uniform manner, i.e. in a common law which will be in the work relating to the regulation of professions and activities and of the chambers in this area. Slovenia belongs to the very top of EU countries by number of regulated professions or activities. While the European average varies between 130 and 150 regulated professions or activities, in Slovenia there are 242 regulated professions or activities according to official data. By regulating a large number of activities or professions, the state makes it difficult to access the labour market for its citizens and citizens of other EU Member States and limits the free movement of labour and the free movement of services in the EU internal market. Legal regulation is necessary and necessary in the case of protection of public interest, it is the protection of the lives, health and property of people, environmental protection and so on. In 2014, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to include the project for the renovation of regulated professions and activities among the key projects of the government project office as the tenth strategic and interdepartmental project. The activities of the re-engineering of regulated professions and activities shall be carried out as a matter of priority in accordance with the decision of the Government. The profession and activity must be regulated in accordance with the principles of free professions, international standards by example of countries with developed architectural culture. In particular, the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and Regulation (EU) on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System are the starting point and framework for the reconstruction of this area. The proposal for a new law therefore, by clarifying the definition of regulated professions, not only reduces the number of regulated professions, but also draws closer to comparable European regulations by clarifying, defining and demarcating the tasks of a regulated profession. With this bill, landscape architects are losing an important area of work, namely the development of municipal detailed spatial plans, and only architects can produce them after this proposal, although landscape architects have the competence to plan urban space. In the follow-up to the Committee, all skills and competences of both professional profiles should be made known in detail and amendments should be decided if necessary. We believe that it will also be necessary to examine the acquisition of professional licences. In the New Slovenia Group we will support this law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u29	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u30	Dear President, Honourable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry for my colleague, Duck, who says he's been ordered to read his position. Nobody tells me what to do, and I'm just going to read the position of the Modern Centre Party on a voluntary basis. The conditions for the provision of activities and services and the provision of occupations in the area of spatial planning and construction of buildings are laid down today by the Law on the Construction of Buildings and the Law on the Regulation of Space. Shortly after the adoption of the applicable spatial and construction legislation, a proposal was made for the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia to prepare and adopt a special law that would regulate specialities for architects only. The following decision was taken to draw up a new independent law that will fully regulate the conditions for the provision of activities and services and the functioning of the Chambers, which, compared to the current system, will constitute additional value and contribute to the improvement of quality in this area. The additional reason for the revision of the legislation in force and for the adoption of the new law is also the amendment of European supervisory legislation relating to the recognition of professional qualifications and the conditions for the provision of services in the internal market. This has led to procedures for drafting and coordinating the bill that we are considering today. The bill provides key solutions for pooling regulated professions with a view to reducing their number, strengthening the role of chambers in the professional supervision of members, strengthening the responsibility of authorised architects and engineers and economic operators and ensuring better quality of services and consumer protection. The law therefore builds on and builds on the existing system of licensing and authorisation procedures. A smaller number of regulated professions are envisaged, each of which is described more clearly by law, defines and demarcates the tasks of an individual profession and thus approaches comparable European regulations. Recognizing that the responsible conduct of undertakings, compliance with the ethical code, professional rules and regulations and the high quality of the authorised architects and engineers can only be achieved if the conditions for carrying out the activity are replaced, specific conditions for carrying out the activity are laid down. In the organisation of the competent chambers, the law generally retains the applicable arrangements and does not provide for major changes, except for the extension of the mandate of the assembly and other assembly bodies and certain additions and amendments to the conduct of disciplinary proceedings. As a novelty, it requires continuous professional training under the programme and rules adopted by the competent professional chambers. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposal for a law introduces mechanisms and instruments that ensure better quality of service delivery in the field of design and spatial planning, and therefore we assess that the proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u31	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u32	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposer replaces the existing Construction Act with two new laws, namely the Construction Law and the Act on Architecture and Engineering, in particular by regulating professions to carry out this activity. The Act on architectural and engineering activities builds on and builds on the existing system of conditions and procedures for obtaining licences and powers, with a clearer concept, clearer content, more transparent and clearer conditions and a description of the tasks of individual regulated professions in the area of space, as stated by the applicant in relation to the current Construction Act. A very nice record of the proposer, but it is also necessary that the content follow this record. The law provides for regulated professions and details for each of them, including in terms of reserved tasks and activities, and titles for each regulated profession would be protected, such as the authorised architect, the authorised engineer, the authorised landscape architect and the authorised spatial planner. The current Construction Act does not operate with a regulated profession as an authorised architect, but describes as a regulated profession the responsible designer, the responsible auditor, the responsible supervisor, the responsible manager of the works, the responsible manager of the individual works and the responsible spatial planner. The tasks, responsibilities and limits of powers are also deleted and not transparent in this new proposal. From the title, the person responsible by means of a new proposal passes to the title empowered, which must also be clearly and precisely defined in the new proposal. The law also regulates the forms of provision of services in which an authorised architect or engineer may perform tasks that fall within the scope of his profession. Regulation of activities is proposed, resulting from an analysis of the legal arrangements of the Member States of the European Union, which has shown that Slovenia is a state without such regulation, as well as the results of the study of the Chamber of Architecture and Areas for Certain Areas in the Republic of Slovenia, which shows that most owners of companies or companies engaged in this activity, which is part of the description of the tasks of authorised architects and engineers, do not have any licences or active licences, and that the market does not have a fully regulated state and allows for the lending of stamps and the misuse of licences. On the basis of the described and aware that the responsible conduct of undertakings, compliance with the ethical code, professional rules and regulations and the high quality of the authorised architects and engineers can only be achieved when the conditions for carrying out the activity are met, not only as a profession, but also as such, the specific conditions for carrying out the activity are laid down: the registration, the employment of an expert, the insurance of liability and the liability of bankruptcy proceedings. An appropriate adjustment period is envisaged for existing economic operators and their adaptation to new requirements. It also provides for possible protection of the title for economic operators that will meet certain stricter conditions allowing for independence such as ownership, non-relationship and others. The law provides for a master level of education in all regulated professions as an appropriate education, the relevant content of the education will be determined in terms of a common platform or minimum content with the rules of all chambers. The law also includes an authorised geodesy engineer among authorised engineers, following the example of other European countries, which extends to other laws in the field of geodesy, such as the Geodesy Act, the Real Estate Registration Act, the Law on the State Geodesic Reference System, which now lays down regulated professions as responsible geodesy, geodet, geodetic expert, who joins one regulated profession in the proposal, an authorised geodesy engineer. The proposed novelty is a way to acquire appropriate professional experience, namely monitoring of the applicant for the name by the mentor. In the organisation of the competent chambers, the law retains the applicable arrangements and does not provide for major changes, except for the extension of the mandate of the Assembly and the authorities of the Chambers and certain additions and changes in the conduct of disciplinary proceedings. As a novelty, the law prescribes compulsory continuing professional training under the programme and rules adopted by the competent professional chambers. An interesting assessment in the new proposal is the assessment of the consequences of the adoption of the law, where section 6.3 of the Economic Impact Assessment states, inter alia: "With the envisaged regulation in the field of companies, the law will have an impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, since access to activities will only be possible for companies that meet relatively stricter legal conditions. Access to the activities of economic operators which do not comply with the conditions laid down in the law will result in the need to comply with those requirements, which will also entail a financial burden in a certain percentage of enterprises.” The Act on Architecture and Engineering was, as were the other two laws relating to spatial planning or the regulation of space, the law on the regulation of space and the construction law, sent to municipal councils and mayors of municipalities and municipalities, the deadline for the submission of all opinions was 19. 6. 2017. The Act on Architecture and Engineering has already received many professional comments from associations, from the Engineering Chamber, the Chamber of Architecture, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Municipal Inspection Services, the Association of Municipal, Municipal and Inter-Ministerial Inspectors, the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Architecture in Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the Faculty of Civil Engineering, Transport Engineering and the Architecture of the Short, comments will be very large and will also be made in the next process, because this is only the first reading, which will be more and probably more, and this is also one of the indicators of the level of completion of this initial proposal. It would have been much better if the date for the comments had been given a little earlier or that this proposal would have been further examined with the comments already taken into account, but that is also part of this procedure. In short, this marriage is still quite lacking. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, this law will be followed mainly by the opinion of the profession. Unnecessary procedures should be avoided which would burden both individuals and the economy in a broader sense. We will follow this through with our additions, proposals in the course of this process, because the law itself in this first reading is not adequately assigned to this level in order to be able to support it at this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u33	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The new Act on Architecture and Engineering regulates the content included in the applicable legislation in the Construction of Buildings Act as a special chapter. As soon as the current construction legislation was adopted more than ten years ago, the architectural and engineering profession proposed that a specific law should be drawn up and adopted for the area of architectural activities, which also has a special position and role in the wider European area. Extensive and long-term coordination has only now brought about a new, independent law on architectural and engineering activities. While the bill does not bring about any radical changes, it merely builds on the existing system of conditions and procedures for obtaining licences and powers. However, since the Ministry has approached the drafting of a new law, it has been possible to establish a clearer concept, the excess content has been cleared, more transparent and clearer conditions have been put in place and descriptions of the tasks of individual regulated professions in the area of space. Instead of the professions so far, only four regulated professions will be created: the authorised architect, the authorised engineer, the authorised landscape architect and the authorised spatial planner. Of course, each profession also has clearly defined and differentiated tasks. The smaller number of regulated professions have also been decided by lawmakers because analyses have shown that we have the most regulated professions in Europe in our country, which is why Slovenia is also approaching comparable European regulations through this reregulation. In the Desus Group we are pleased that the law has been coordinated and coordinated with many stakeholders, such as the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, the Chamber of Engineering of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and so on. It was the most controversial, and we can expect it to be further considered, as regards professional tasks and authorized architects and engineers. The current version of the text includes a compromise solution that takes account of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. This solution, in view of the harmonised educational programme, provides for a single licence for architects also in the field of design, while in other professions for obtaining a design licence a professional examination is required. According to the Ministry of Environment and Space, such a solution automates the acquisition of a license for architects and, on the other hand, does not discriminate, as it does not deny anyone the possibility of becoming a spatial planner. The law provides for a master level of education in all regulated professions as an appropriate education, and the relevant content of the education will be determined in terms of the common platform or minimum content with the rules of the Chambers, following the model of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. In the Desus Group, we hope that there will be sufficient safeguards in the law to ensure that foreign architects, engineers who occasionally or regularly operate in our country will not be privileged in relation to domestic professional groups for which higher professional standards are aimed at quality in design, while at the same time ensuring respect for the Directive on recognition of professional qualifications already mentioned several times. Members and Members of the Desus Group will support the bill as suitable for further consideration. We estimate that the law brings order to the market where there is currently a chaotic state that allows even the lending of stamps and the abuse of rights, and most owners of companies or companies engaged in activities in the field of architects and engineers do not have any licenses to carry out this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u35	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mrs Irena Majcen, spoke. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I would like to thank the debaters for the comments made in these presentations. In particular, I would like to thank those who have already indicated or have already said that they will support this law and that it is suitable for further consideration. Those who did not express this might recall that we had the first hearing of these three laws in November 2015, so that in 2016 it was co-ordinated between stakeholders on the basis of comments. Not only in these three laws, it often happens that the comments of stakeholders in one law are diametrically opposite, and of course in such cases it is difficult to reconcile and find a solution that would satisfy both sides. And if I speak solely of the Law on Architects and Engineers, I can say that more than 30 times have been coordinated with the Chambers. This means that we have been in contact with them not once a month, but several times a month, and we have coordinated how to solve problems. I admit, problems, let's say today we've all mentioned this, the use of printers. Years ago, when it first entered into force on these two architect organisations, of course, the printing press was tied to the completion of this profession and there was no difficulty in obtaining printers or the corresponding work permit. It is true, however, that young people rarely decided to take the exam, which would allow them to obtain the right license, that then it was that architects, engineers and all who had already had the printing press, even after they left for retirement — that was the generation that was now retired — borrowed this printer for some compensation, and, of course, the chambers are also aware of these problems. It is therefore a matter of raising the standard of work of operators and therefore also of adequate insurance, adequate employment or ownership. Therefore, an entity must be responsible; it cannot happen that, because of any difficulties in the implementation of any project, an undertaking simply declares itself, fails, goes into liquidation. It is a matter of better quality of service delivery and, in fact, the associations agree. They themselves are aware of this problem and of these problems, and I can thank them today for their willingness to coordinate with us for so long that a harmonised text has been reached. There are also comments on the level of education as regards the content of education itself. As far as we are concerned, of course we agree, but we know that this law cannot solve all of this, so some things will have to be resolved in other regulations, and for further work, the preparation of projects is a basic condition by regulating the new law on architecture and engineering. But we ourselves are aware that the profession is experiencing changes, and much is changing. It is also a matter of responsibility and preparation of appropriate projects and we do not imagine that any adjustments to this law will be experienced in the coming years. Of course, because the law, even for such an activity, will have to be updated in the sense that things that already happen in the profession will then be introduced into the legislation. This does not mean that we have not done everything to ensure that the law is harmonised and that it is adequately prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u37	The word is from Dr. Franc Trček, prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. Usually, citizens and citizens are criticizing what we're doing on our cell phone. On a cell phone about a survey that is not really a survey, there is a human rights violation in the congregation of Hoče, which is essentially a name and surname call, whether you are for an investment or not. You'll tell us what this has to do with what we're dealing with now. There is. And this also has something to do with, and I'm going to tell you frankly, as a spatial sociologist, I'm also going to look at the bytes of those who have money in this country. Also politicians who, unlike me, are long in politics, even from better times, have more money and so on – Milan, I will not mention your facade, not side by side watching – but you know – it is not funny, colleague Lisec – it is also a state of the spirit. And also some directors who are not at the Age at the Age would not discuss tastes, but most of these people, this can also be confirmed by my colleague Rajić, in fact, has one hens. And that's basically spatial ignorance in this society and in this country. And this is some kind of starting point. I didn't just mention that English case before Members were sent to some primary school. You know, even in the order of our beautiful idyllic, if you want, Istrian villages that look nice far away, you often hold your head when you come to the village. Are people guilty now or not? Not really. For this we are guilty of the people of the profession, it is the politics that is to blame, after all, the media are to blame, I can say, the schools that do not educate us about it, and it is also to blame that in this society and the country too many people represent democracy in a way, I will quote the phrase that I often hear, “What are these to me, and no one will shit on me”, the end of the quote. And that's actually kind of a problem. This problem is another problem when it comes to amending this legislation, as some have already mentioned, is, of course, legal and legitimate, some pressures, lobbying interests and policies, which are not taken seriously by Article 82 of the Constitution and do not depart from it. If we look at this three, of course, the ministries are always saying, we've connected all the stakeholders, we've communicated and so on. In 2015, the first draft of these laws received 75 pages of comments, proposals, criticism and so on, which we as a spatial sociologist can think of. At the time, all this overlap was quite connected and in this sense the policy was still so clever, pragmatic, in this poor sense, that at first the building was a little conflicted and the architects, then it calmed down a little, and because they are the smallest, a little bit more of a landscape architect than architects pushed aside, and if I'm a little cynical, you know, the gentleman in Murgle who is responsible for everything, and the gentleman who sits there more seductively, who is the hero of everything or vice versa, have both daughters who are landscape architects, and both studied abroad. I could say in a joke that maybe Milan Kučan and Janez Janša should go and watch sunsets together, and Bane Rajić would be cooking them and we'd be a little serious. But let's be serious. If we go to see – and I will not read this now – the OPN and OPNN, what is substantive in them, and we go to this brother, we would see that maybe landscape architects and architects have even more knowledge of this than some other architectural and construction professions. Because I taught these people, I know that. That's another thing. You all mentioned deregulation, deregulation. You know, we're creating this Europe, too. Deregulation has brought us — where? It has led us to have three-quarters of the people in this country have an average salary and that if you go with an average pension salary, you get 560 euros in retirement for 40 years. And that's my political economy, which I'm going to be even more anxious about than I am. In short, if I'm going over the law, full-time training. Yes, I love God, or if you don't believe in him, because these are some professions where you have to train all the time and where they may still be under-trained. There was a problem with who would do it, who wouldn't. Somehow it is written, according to the local word, by some companies that have one architect and engineer, after the ZDR it can be someone who has two hours of employment. And here's a problem where we have to ask ourselves a question. Excess, experience, youth, volunteerism as in many areas. We should also ask ourselves how to get these young people into practice. I often take students, when I have time, to Brno, because there are very good interwar architecture, South Moravian modernism, including Villa Tugendhat, and in fact there are then young architects in Masaryk's country, people over 30, there somewhere – this, I hope, can also be confirmed by the Bana coalition – have the opportunity to prove themselves and make beautiful buildings and beautiful fences. Where are we today in Slovenia from? You know, in 9.3 or 9.4 billion, how much the budget would be, there would be money for that. There would also be money for some forms of consultative bodies that would give us spatial, environmental, urban or educational training if I put it that way. And then we wouldn't have a problem with those polls, we wouldn't have a problem with Magna, we wouldn't have a problem with chemistry. If I get a little bit attached to the first point, we've turned you over to the congregations, my colleague Lach has talked about it. Look, we both know the Minister well, and there's so much music as money. These OPNs are one better, the other worse, but with all my expertise I claim that spatial planning should be carried out at regional level. And this topic should be considered together with the reform of local self-government and also with what Violeta mentioned earlier, the Court of Auditors' audit report, which should make Minister Koprivnika fly away as a gate button, has made it very clear what I have been saying for three years now that the Ministry of Auditors does not even know what all the mandatory tasks of the municipalities are. But it is not only the Lord's fault that this policy is to blame in the 20 years in which we have failed the millions of laws that turn to the municipal level. In particular, this law may be the least controversial, but not the least, some changes around membership that will strike again those who are in a criminal position. This is now some sort of stunt and I've been talking to a whole range of these players, some of them I've been involved in my previous professional life, and some of the impression is that at least certain things are going in a positive direction in this three, unfortunately they're not going in the positive direction of the matter going in a negative direction on this ministry, environmental issues, about it in the next law that we're going to deal with. But politics can't somehow take responsibility and distance itself from the lobby and really think seriously about it. Of course, this is part of the problem, not in the legislation itself, but how it is implemented. Part of the problem is who you brought to the ministries and to the agencies, how you sent people like me after working there to think rooms or even kicked them out of these institutions, the problem is that the municipal authorities and if you want the national authorities to not cooperate because of such and different laws and other personal, political affinities, whatever, and then we get this stunt that we have. This marriage, as it drives, will unfortunately not save it. That's a fact. It will improve some things, let's be honest, we have to admit it to people who know each other a little bit or a little bit more, but it will not solve the story, if you want to metaphorically open it, peel it off like an onion, think about what it's all about. My colleague pointed out that this is also linked to the education system, including to take into account any older gentlemen who are already in the pension, who are perhaps 80 plus and who have some knowledge, not all of them are to be dismissed, but also to be able to take into account in the SMC some Members, whom I will not now personally appoint, and to cover them when they tell you something well-intentional, and also what I have indicated, the professions of such very important social importance and public interest should not be deregulation, and, secondly, in this area, we have, as in many areas, a insane generation gap, to which I have repeatedly warned. You know, we're an old man's country. In the next decade, the average age will be 50 years and up on these structures. Do I feel like something — a little bit of an idiot myself — that I always remind myself of it. Older people with knowledge we've pushed away, people under 40 years of age, as if they don't exist, lobbyists half-breed us, we don't take responsibility, and however we turn around, we're only going to get a little bit of another and a different stunt. And beyond that, the European Directive, Europe this, Europe that, we are also this Europe, we co-create it, and we must also take the right to say something to this so-called Europe. And that's essentially the problem. I would be very happy if, at least in this area, we could overcome so much wisdom, this could be a good exercise to show how Parliament should work. Spatial legislation is such legislation, where we are whether you are sitting on couch 22 or at headquarters 89 or 90, all citizens and citizens, and we live in time and space. And we don't want to see all these stunts happening to us and happening to us all over again. We cry again and again and again, we who meet with this function are alerted to this, but the solution does not open, it does not break apart, which is hard. Of course it's hard, and for the minister and everyone else, to talk to all of them, but I think it's kind of necessary. We will now do our best – I see that we are also meeting with New Slovenia and with whom – to propose a series of amendments, but I'm a little afraid that this will happen again, it's the opposition. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u39	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President. Despite the fact that my colleague Trček has been academically educated and I, according to their fachidiote, fully agree with what he has been saying. I must say that I, as mayor at the outset, have also given a damn thought to who to give spatial planning in view of the fact that a highway was planned through the congregation and given the importance of the congregation itself. That's when we chose the best, Urbanist Institute, and we got a lot of money through time. Doesn't matter who's doing it. But I have to say that sometimes, I also have a case now that some professor, a doctor, and I don't know what else he's saying is that there's a big game going down certain corridors, and the hunters haven't seen her in over a hundred years. But I can't agree that someone from Ljubljana who's never been there will teach a hunter who doesn't know how many nights and years he's been on guard, but he hasn't seen such a savage. That's how we do it in this case. But such things must be done, and we must believe in him who is [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u41	Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber, Mr Matjaž Hanžek and Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We have before us the first law of the so-called threesome, which deals with building in a broader sense by placing it in space. In fact, this law is one of the less important if we look at the importance of these three laws. I think that the whole debate should begin with a law on the regulation of space, which is the basis for further building, and the next step is who is preparing a single set of documentation. First, let me say that I do not oppose this law, but I will be very careful at the next stage how this law will actually improve in the light of the comments that have been made so far. What I can say in general is that your explanation of this law is, in some way, a characteristic of all the changes in the legislation we are going to at this last moment. In one part of your explanation, you write that existing legislation does not allow for play and speculation in this area. One whole chapter, where you're talking about major solutions, you're talking about licenses being played, licenses being borrowed, printing and signatures being borrowed. Obviously, we are back to the fact that legislation is well written in our country, but not implemented. Regardless of all the big words that are written in this law and the improvements that will contribute to it, it will still be a matter for the people who will do it, and especially for the supervision that will oversee it. In the past, we have also had responsible designers, responsible leaders of the works, and so on, but no one has ever really responded. Now we can write that it will be an authorized architect, an authorized engineer, an authorized landscape architect, an authorized spatial planner, but if these obligations, which we write down in the law that all these people should respect, when some documentation is being prepared, are not respected and no one is sanctioning them, we will see the same in a few years. And what will be the Ministry's action? Apparently a change of law. When a thing does not work in our country, everyone says the law is bad and the law needs to be corrected, although in the argument you all write that the problem is that the existing law is not implemented. But the law is not implemented because all engineers are playing or all the authorized architects and so on, or all those who are implementing this legislation, because a handful of them are faking it and because the body that should sanction it does not sanction it. As a result, we come back to the National Assembly and propose to amend the legislation. If you believe that this will improve just because we divide things into multiple laws, I don't think that's enough. As I said, there are some improvements in this law as well, but without proper control and without adequate control, this will contribute virtually nothing. When you talk about deregulation of professions when I compared the previous regulation with the current one, except that certain names change, there is no significant change. I hope, given that we are changing this, that the part that also talks about the control of these functions and further on the control over the performance of these authorised persons will be significantly improved, and that we will also slowly come to some of the responsibilities of these people who are preparing the documents. For this is the only way to improve the situation in the area of placement in space and also in the construction of the buildings itself. As I said, we will continue to closely monitor how the hearing will take place in the home working committee, and I only hope that the ministry will listen to good proposals coming from the coalition, the opposition and the public concerned, and only in this case will we be prepared to support this law further. At this point, we will not oppose the law, as I have said, although it is very attractive on paper for the time being, but it needs a few more additions, and it will be crucial how the responsibilities will be defined below, for without this law it will not contribute any more than the existing legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u43	Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! When we talk about architecture and engineering, which mainly concerns the area of construction and the regulation of space, we also have to face the fact that in Slovenia, due to reckless measures within the construction industry, we have actually suffered a great deal. I have in mind, of course, the rich experience our engineers have gained in this area since the construction of highways and also many residential, multi-housing buildings, but mainly in highways we have built and created a very high potential of engineers, architects and experts in the area of space regulation, which could be marketed not only in Slovenia, but especially outside Slovenia, which is certainly one of our important priorities. We have overlooked this in a way that we have actually collapsed the construction expertise through the collapse of construction companies. Today we are facing a law that is supposed to regulate or regulate and also deregulation this profession, and I am particularly interested in whether an analysis has been made because the law is largely referring to legislation in other countries, the consequences for domestic architects, construction engineers, spatial planners, compared to engineers coming from abroad, can do similar work in Slovenia. Are the demands for our experts higher than those for those who come from abroad? This is one of the questions I would like a clear answer to, because we have recently adopted legislation, I think that there is something similar about the framework of professional qualifications, where we have found that our companies in foreign markets are not competitive because they have to present in their offer the composition of their team, an expert team with certain levels of education, which are usually higher than those offered by other companies from other countries. We have tried to harmonise this in a way that these professions have been treated in a comparable manner. The same profession as in other countries is also valued in Slovenia. Is this comparison also made in this case that we will not get into a situation where our companies will, say, be uncompetitive because we will demand higher conditions here than we should be? However, it would be very wise, since the very explanation of the law states that we have already carried out certain activities in Slovenia to renovate regulated professions, especially trade, funeral and funeral activities, tourism, construction, geodetic activity, chimney activity, real estate intervention, detective activity, driving schools, lawyers, veterinary and social – what are the experiences in all these areas where we have abolished the regulation of the profession? In trades, I hope to say that when deregulation of professions decreased, this had a major impact on lower wages, since someone with a lower education could also do a job that, say, should not have been done before that if he did not have an adequate education. So also in this relationship, are we creating a new position in which our architects, our builders, spatial planners, will actually come to a worse income position because of this law than before? This is one of the concrete issues, especially because this comparison with the other areas that have been adopted would also be very useful for Members and Members to have this in front of us when we adopt this law. Some data should probably be available as a departmental ministry themselves, especially given that we were discussing funeral and funeral activities, chimney activities and so on, which is within this department. What is actually the experience of these changes that have been adopted? Can we evaluate them positively or negatively for those who perform this service or for individual activities? I would really like some answers to this subject before the text of the law is finally adopted, because the great advantage of Slovenia can only be that we have very high knowledge and that we can therefore be competitive. However, if this rate is prescribed in a way that is higher than in other countries, we are quickly becoming uncompetitive and, in fact, we are holding the loop around our necks, which is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u45	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Igor Zorčič. Here you go, Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. All present, and I especially welcome the Minister and her coworkers! We are also considering the Act on Architecture and Engineering now. This is one of the three laws governing the construction of buildings. One of these, the building law, will be discussed today, and the land regulation law is expected during the autumn period in this National Assembly. The aim of the Act on Architecture and Engineering is to simplify procedures in order to protect operators, to remove the burdens that have hindered individual investors, and therefore not to decide on the construction, in fact all that I have just said concerns the construction law. The Engineering Act regulates or regulates four professions, such as an authorized architect, an engineer, a landscape architect and a spatial planner. For each of them, the law also details the professional tasks. The law further regulates the following matters. Regulation of activities is proposed, the Republic of Slovenia is one of the few countries without such regulation. Most owners of companies or economic operators engaged in an activity that is part of the description of the tasks of authorised architects and engineers, has no licenses or no active licenses, the market has a chaotic state that allows for the lending of stamps, misuse of licences and so on. Therefore, special conditions are laid down for the exercise of an activity. A one-year adjustment period is envisaged for existing economic operators and their adaptation to new requirements. Among the authorised engineers, the law also includes an authorised geodesian engineer, which extends to the regulations of the Real Estate Registration Act, the Geodetic Activity Act and the Law on the State Geodetic Reference System, by bringing the three regulated professions together into one regulated profession. The organisation of the competent chambers – this is also an area governed by the law – is largely governed by the rules in force, but no major changes are envisaged, except for the extension of the mandate to the Assembly and certain additions and changes in the conduct of disciplinary procedures. In obtaining relevant professional experience, it is also envisaged to monitor a candidate for a title in a particular profession in this field, and the law provides that the acquisition of professional experience leads to a specific mentor who offers professional assistance to a candidate for the acquisition of knowledge for a particular profession, directs him in his work, briefs him in everything, so that he can then approach the professional examination and carry it out successfully. It seems to me that it is very important that this is so defined in the law. I would also point out that our law on the education of individual professions candidates is actually discriminatory, because we do not have the same requirements for these professions as some other countries in the European Union. In short, we're tougher. In our case, all the four professions I spoke about earlier require a second degree education, while, as I said earlier, other European countries require lower skills, lower schooling, and the first level of Bologna. For example, I'd give Germany, and there's others. In fact, this means unfair competition, which was also spoken of by a respected colleague in front of me, who said that when we set these higher conditions, we are actually tightening the loop around our necks, or I will say so, that our engineers are discriminated against in this direction that they must end the second Bologna stage. In order to eliminate this in order to align ourselves with other countries of the European Union, I, of course, expect another ministry and government as a whole to adopt approaches to amending the law, which will also prescribe lower requirements for our citizens who want to be educated in this area, that is to say that they will end the first Bologna level. If I finish. Of course, marriage brings positive solutions, and as such, of course, I will support it. However, I will also support the next law, which will be discussed today, this is a building law, and I thank the Ministry and the Minister in particular for preparing these laws so quickly and that the situation in these areas of construction will be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u47	Before we proceed with the debate of Members and Members, I also give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and the Space of Mrs Irena Majcen and prepare the mag. Dusan Verbich and Mr Jan Škoberne. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u48	Perhaps we could explain some things or say that we should not be too far away from the law in this discussion. I would like to say that we take you into the newly regulated professions as a better regulation of professions, not a deregulation. And to make comparisons with other professions that have been deregulated in a short period of time, in which there is, in fact, no analysis yet – unfortunately, we cannot provide these answers. I would agree, however, that domestic and foreign authorised architects and engineers must comply with the competent requirements required for our own, that is, local architects and engineers, and the competences are compared. If foreign architects and engineers do not fit the competences, they may choose between the professional examination and the acquisition of practical experience. In fact, this difference is between domestic and foreign architects and engineers. But it is true that all of this is governed by the law on the recognition of professional qualifications and can only be regulated by that law, so we cannot regulate it in our law. So if we want to settle this, there is still work to be done in other laws, which does not mean that we do not agree with you on finding this solution. So we agree, and we want this matter to be settled or resolved. However, it is particularly important in these regulated professions that, in terms of reserved tasks, activities, education, responsibilities of work, it is important that, in terms of the performance of these professions, these professions are sufficiently regulated, and we want the public powers that the Chambers have to exercise. During the past periods, the Chambers did some reviews of the work of their architects, where they, of course, found a number of things in the review of documentation by administrative units. I am convinced that also with regard to membership, it is necessary to take into account that the Chambers need to strengthen themselves, carry out their education and supervise their work, by means of an expert examination, therefore, of authorised operators. Without this part of their tasks, we cannot imagine that efficiency would be better than it has been so far. However, the fact that this legislation is also exempt from other legislation in neighbouring countries, of course it is also changing, it is being supplemented, it is being built up, because, as I mentioned earlier today, development itself, technology, expertise is changing rapidly and it is easier in such a special law to follow all of these changes, which are necessary in legislation to ensure that work is done well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u49	The word has magic. Dušan Verbič, prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Franc Laj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, very nice greeting! Given that I have listened attentively to the introduction of the presentation as well as this debate, I must admit that I am joining the opinion and position of one of the fellow Members of the parliamentary group, who said very nicely and visually, and I simply agree with it. This troika, package, is an important force, often used in all political and professional debates concerning investors, building permits and the like. I don't think it's right that today's debate is starting on if I can say it and not insultingly, almost to the least important law, because the fact is that in this pyramid it is certainly spatial legislation, which still has a bearing on local self-government, on professional, strategic planning, then this so-called procedural law, which will be the next item, and in fact we are now in this area of the Act on Architecture and Engineering. I will myself in this relatively short debate – because I think that there will be more and this is also the intertwine of the following points – I will touch, and I will say something very controversial, and very little has been pointed out in the debate so far, perhaps something from a colleague on the left. In particular, I am of the view that in this process and further in this law, the responsibility of designers and contractors must be increased. Why is that my humble opinion? Mainly because of this, many times and all the time, it is a talk about removing bureaucratic barriers, and so on and so forth, that it weighs us down, investors have problems. The fact is that this is one of the segments – these bureaucratic barriers are also said to be reduced, so that both designers and operators would bear the primary responsibility in these processes of their activities in terms of the compatibility of investments with spatial documents and overall construction legislation. All those who have met with this subject in the past in one way or another are a number of cases, as there are also certain statements from these, such as, architects and designers in the projects to obtain the building permit. In view of the fact that in so many cases in these proceedings it was found that the specific project was not fully in line with the RIPN, despite declarations of responsibility, it was generally not. Usually, the reason for non-compliance has evolved mainly to administrative authorities, which in such cases are purely and most likely to pay attention in future to compliance in this part. That is why I have pointed this out even more in the beginning, for I am in the position that the construction should be carried out by those who are qualified and registered and are also responsible. This certainly affects the fact that we do not have a degree of non-conformity, but in particular that we do not avoid control in one way or another, but, of course, a system, mechanisms must be enabled to pursue, if I can use this term, both on the part of designers and performers, so as not to mention black construction. As far as the law is concerned, I must admit that I will only touch on a few areas, because I believe that there has been little emphasis in the debate so far. There are also many words in other areas that Slovenia in its legal order – here we are talking about building architects, designers, engineers and the like – has some specific arrangement and this arrangement in some way makes it impossible to make more effective. And that's true. I am very pleased that, in the introductory part, specifically of this Act on Architecture and Engineering, it has been very good to point out that the proposal of this Act sets an example for us in comparable countries. It's also about time now. Because this construction law is from 2002 and then a few times it has practically not interfered with some processes that could really make such procedures more effective on the part of both the designers and the authorities of the state administration. What I wanted to point out is that I am really pleased to have a summary of the similarity of this so-called German system of Austria and Germany, which we know is relatively fast and simply obtained by so-called building permits. As I mentioned, at the next point, a little more. The fact is that this law essentially represents three or four main points. First, a condition for obtaining professional titles, much of which has already been said, secondly, a condition for the management of architectural and engineering activities, and what we may not pay much attention to in amending such legislation, is the organisation, tasks, objectives and work area of the Chambers. We know that there are currently two chambers, engineering and architecture and space in this area. Before I say a few words, I will touch the chamber with that fourth issue, which I have hardly heard today: the reason for this law – the transposition of the directive. And look at the fraction, the 2006 directive, and today we are 2017. Here it is completely understandable my question why it took so long between 2006 and 2017 to say that this part of the directive, which is related to services in the internal market, is being transposed only today or by this law. Well, these are the key points for the practical content of this law. As far as the chambers are concerned, in this case both chambers. I am joining all those debaters who have somehow touched on these so-called assembly activities, and I simply agree with the statement that everything that is written seems very nice, but the key question is whether the chambers such as these so-called associations in both groups are supposed to be architects, designers and engineers – if I have the right information, there are about 4,000 members in both chambers – whether it is expected that such a chamber will otherwise operate and react in individual cases, as we know the functioning of the Chambers in other activities. I am referring to the Notary Chamber, because directly or indirectly, I can relate to this point of the current hearing. I think that we all have in mind the case of Zbiljski Gaj and then how the Chamber, in this case the Notary Chamber, reacts against the one who has a significant deviation from the House's mission in some way. Similar was the story concerning the registration of flags or mortgages in Styria – I think around Celje. Here I am asked a personal question, whether these two chambers, so that we have very nicely written down what their jurisdiction is and what they will do, or whether these two chambers will act slightly differently, so that there will be no such cases when the damaged investor or contracting entity, which will pay relatively well for this, is subject to procedures that can be so caricated as to be called false solidarity. I think it's right to ask a question in this case, too. I would not go further in these areas of professional regulation as well as in activities, because it has been sufficiently said, but I think that the parent committee that will deal with this will certainly give a few more words. I fully agree and welcome this law in particular because the contracting authorities and service users actually need to be provided with credible and transparent information about the provision of services or a partner who is able to coordinate, as you wrote down correctly, "private interests of an individual with public interest". Simply put, the interest of an investor or a contracting entity certainly differs in a number of cases from the designer to the architect in some ways when the relationship to public interest is established, which is generally this public interest defined in the OPN or the OPNN or in any other provision. If I'm making a very banal case, then there's some agreement. I think we'll be able to do more in the next few points. The fact is that it must certainly be made very clear that this law seeks to protect the interests of the investor and the contracting authority. I would just like to point out one point as far as the same law is concerned, Article 15. This 15th Article, which speaks of ensuring liability for damage – and somehow ending this debate with an introductory view that the responsibility for such services should also be made very clear. This Article 15 usually means — what? Those who are authorised and registered to manage, at least in the project area or implementation, make mistakes, which is perfectly logical and also normal. Surely we are talking about unwitting or unwitting mistakes, but in such cases, like everywhere, mistakes are an integral part of some activities. Significantly for such matters, as regards projects, which means errors in the project itself and also in practice, it appears that, as a rule, there are no very large catastrophic errors in such areas for investors or subscribers, which can also be remedied on a relatively fast and not so much cost-effective basis. More attention should be paid to those so - called real errors that occur in the construction itself. So my thinking is not so much about the mistakes in the projects themselves, because there are only so many security guards and also in the processes of obtaining consent and issuing permits. Actual errors occurring after construction. Here I am very pleased that you have made this very clear to the law-makers, and I think that in these processes, too, there is a need to draw attention to this several times. Above all, because we must be aware that most investors, contracting authorities of such services, are not as skilled as they are, and it is right to be aware of this. It is said that both the architect and the engineer are responsible for all hidden errors for a good two years, and the construction itself is responsible for ten years. I only point this out for one reason, as it also happens in practice that usually this so-called bond relationship between the designer and the investor is not always exemplary. This irregular example means that an investor, a contracting entity does not realize that when it comes to making real mistakes, that one of the key elements and conditions is an immediate publication or an immediate reference or an invitation to occur, or has found out whether it has detected this error. If he does not do so, this means that any remedy of such real errors goes solely and mainly to the detriment and payment of investors. I think that these matters are important and that clear communications on such rights and obligations should also be made available to the public in these legislative changes. If I finish. I certainly welcome and support this bill's proposal, and I believe that there will certainly be a need for further correction, and it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u51	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Laj and Dr Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! What is evident when this law is being addressed, but also in many cases, is, of course, a great need for legislation, its contents and its influences not always to be understood and tried to understand, but also to be addressed only sectorally. So, the law before us, although it is very clear on behalf of where it belongs, i.e. architectural and engineering activities, of course has significantly broader effects and impacts and is, as such, also horizontal in this debate within the framework of government policies. Weber, Mrs. Porotat, have already talked about this. Of course, it is a matter of whether the legislation we adopt in some area is in proper conformity with the acts adopted by this assembly or by the Government in other areas. I am not speaking here that anything has been made in the preparation of this law by the Ministry of Environment and Space. On the contrary, I think that an important effort has been made for a good law and that the only thing I regret in the process of adopting this law is that the ZUREP is not on the table today. But those who have stopped it from such and other matters already know why it is important that we get it only in September. What I want to say is that we are dealing for a narrow space in our country with the issue of licensing, regulation of these professions. Then, at the second stage, we deal with it at the level of the European Union as a whole, but often in the debate about what needs to be done through legal guidance or through the direction of part of the Government we can still do, but the fact is that our engineers, our architects do not work only in the Republic of Slovenia and not only work in the European Union. Major difficulties in the area of recognition of competences, licensing and, as a consequence, the provision of their services are mainly faced in our key markets, which are not within the framework of the European Union. I am talking about the Western Balkans area, particularly Montenegro, Serbia, BiH, Macedonia and, of course, important markets such as Russia, such as Kazakhstan, Ukraine and any of these in the last period. Here I would just like to point out that our engineers, architects, designers face the fact that at home we have the required standard A of licensing, certification and so on, then there is an attempt within the European Union to synchronize these standards, but again, as we have heard today, at home the second stage, in Germany, I do not know what the required rate is, for example, in Norway, which is not a member of the European Union, but is a member of the European Economic Area and with which we have partially synchronized legislation. Then they collide with so-called third countries, where young people often, especially in larger public contracts, which are extremely important to the important part of our engineering and construction professions, then run into so-called non-customs restrictions, namely, fair and legally clear principles of work of other countries, but with a view to limiting ours. And here I come to the point of this urgent horizontality of part of the government and the understanding of this law as an extremely non-sectoral, not just ILO law. The Ministry of Economic Development, Technology, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education will have to make a concerted effort to allow for competitive or more competitive and easier access by our operators of engineering, architecture and construction activities in the so-called third markets, particularly in the Western Balkans. Since an important part of the effort they have to make today, so that they can even start offering their services, so that they can even start working, it is first to harmonise the certificates, the licences, the certificates they already have at home in the European Union, and then, in fact, to do or acquire everything they already have — in important work — not necessarily everywhere. Of course, that costs a lot. In the absence of projects, as we had in the previous financial perspective, when, above all, there was a lot of investment at the level of municipalities in the basic municipal infrastructure, when it was built substantially more than in the so-called programme perspective, and in the reality of our construction, engineering, design companies, there is a significant shortage of work, and work is also offered mainly in the region, in the countries that are in the so-called pre-accession programmes, where precisely this primary municipal infrastructure, for example, is being financed. This effort has so far been left behind and here because we have a general debate and because it is also directly linked to the content of this law, of course, I also count on your call, Madam Minister, at which of the government's meetings, that the legislation you are preparing and extremely important influences the development of our engineering, architecture, design and construction professions remains not only a closed circuit of your department, but that the importance of what you are doing and what you are writing in this law is also understood by other ministers and ministers and that, through their acquisitions, methods and activities, for example, through economic diplomacy, through the consular relations they have in the field of, for example, education and elsewhere, however, we are taking an important step forward. Because it is good for us to have a place like Slovenia to regulate our law; absolutely. But we are part of a much wider space and all we do here is actually more for a bonus or a base; all we want more is to create and do in markets outside. This should be borne in mind, and further legislative consideration of this proposal will also need to be given to whether this synchronisation with others in a way that is not in favour of others, but that at least our suppliers are equal to others in the possibilities of obtaining works. As what is often happening to most of the new members of the European Union when transposing European directives is that we have often passed on texts quite uncritically, which have been badly misused at European Commission level by major countries, more important representations and so on. As the law has already said, it is good, it is worthy of support, but in some ways we hope for important debates and, in particular, in terms of horizontality, the effect of the contents of this law, the continuation at government level and the activities of tools that are not only legislative in nature. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have two other discussers on the list, Mr Ljub Žnidar and Mag. Branislav Rajic. Mr. Žnidar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me briefly highlight four more segments of this new proposal: “Yes, we will improve things according to the existing law.” But the truth must be told that certain tasks that the law clearly and accurately prescribes are not carried out. This is a problem many times in our legislation, and even in this area it is. Is not the actual responsibility that is well defined in some segments, whether there is sufficient control and control over certain tasks that are clearly defined in the existing law, so that the correction, the new text and then, if the law is not implemented in practice, the new law will not be any better. This must be taken as a fact on the basis of experience with the application of the old law. Today, too, education itself has been highlighted. We are very pleased to compare ourselves with other foreign European neighbours, something else further, where, above all, in this engineering work covered by this law, there is much greater emphasis on the field of practice; we have only strictly the level of education, and this is the highest level of education. This isn't a level in this engineering department. I think we could learn something from our neighbors, where the expertise is much more valuable, I am talking about technical engineering. Because the professional work has a much greater weight and greater importance as well as a much greater competence than just writing the highest level of education on paper. We will have to know this in Slovenia for once that it is not. If I mention a third segment in this new proposal of the law with this regulation of professions before comparison with abroad, it is in some way intended to limit the scope of operation for each engineering profession; whether it is a landscape, environmental, spatial planner and so on. Everyone would like to be very limited in this work, somehow secure their kindergarten, alone for their scope of work, and that someone else would not reach into its narrow center of his profession or direction in this technical direction. And I'm going to go over here in a comparison that's very well illustrated how these comparisons are made in Austria. If I look at, let's say, just in the case of spatial planning, where it's not actually regulated by regulation and by making spatial acts, anyone in Austria can actually do it. Thus, this part of spatial planning is not closed to a specific body in the area of space regulation regulated by the Land Act, is the Spatial Planning Council. [[…]] But also this world in Austria is not a manufacturer, but it is only a consultant to the government that advises on how to approach matters in space regulation. In short, this case is pretty open. If I'm going to design and other construction services now, where I'm going back, where the expertise is divided into sort of three segments. As the first segment, he is an architect and consulting engineer. In fact, this part does a more consultative technical part. Then there is the second part of regulated professions, which have the highest weight. These are construction masters. This is not an understatement title, it is a name for architects, designers who deal with both design and project management and works. This segment is of the most professional value in Austria and, of course, has the widest part of its staff. That's what you call the emphasis on the profession, not the highest education on paper. Third segment, so-called technical-engineered bureaucrats. This is also a regulated profession that deals with these are architects, internal architects, engineers and graduates of other universities, universities and vocational schools. [[…]] This is said in the same rank, regardless of education, and we rank them exclusively for education. Look at the comparison – there are 3,000 400 technical and engineering bureaus in Austria. In short, it's an exclusive focus on the profession. Even if we look further at the comparison with the Federal Republic of Germany, where there are no licences for the production of regional, country and state spatial acts and there is no regulation of the strategic acts of the municipalities. Spatial planners can be individuals who, of course, have the appropriate professional education of an architect, landscape architect, builder, surveyor, urbanist and so on and who have practice in this field. That is, again, an emphasis on practice. I therefore believe that this proposal of this law, as well as the other three laws that follow these changes in the area of spatial placement, as well as in the Act on Architecture and Engineering, will, of course, continue in the construction law, this area and this segment should be given in comparison to education: practice, I would call it, professional normal weight, but not only academic title of the highest rank, where it is everywhere, both in obtaining licences, in the end in job invitations and so on, professionally evaluated, but only academic title has its highest validity. In this way, in the Republic of Slovenia, we have so far significantly, significantly evaluated the profession in all areas. The profession is evaluated in all areas! Not to say, in Slovenia we all deal with everything, but not who we are, I would say, only for a certain segment of knowledge from our profession, but in Slovenia everyone would do everything. Only that we have an academic title, no matter what, but of course the widest area can be covered if you have the academic title of a university for social sciences, which is known in the Republic of Slovenia at all. [[…]] Also to run the largest construction projects in the Republic of Slovenia. For this bill as well as for other laws, I propose that these guidelines, these comparisons can be summarised from neighbouring countries, as I have already mentioned, and implemented in our legislation. This is my proposal, because the profession should deal with its expertise, not that everyone today interferes in the fields of expertise.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Procedural Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Look, I gotta take this. I agree with my colleague: let the profession deal with expertise and political decisions are political decisions. But we, in this society and the country, in fact, do not have enough critical socialists, and it could be critical to the FDV – in fact, in the SDS party, the FDV is the largest of the FDVs per square metre – as well as to some private institutions on the state budget that they established during their reign. But what Mr. Žnidar is saying is essentially an insult to a whole range of professionals, so please remind him of that. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you, Dr. Runk. I listened attentively to Mr Ljub Žnidar, and I did not think he was offensive to anyone, but he made his position clear, as was necessary and expected in the National Assembly. I hope I have satisfied you with this answer as much as I have. Let's get back to work. Mag. Branislav Rajić, as last you have time for your opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, everyone! The Act on Architecture and Engineering involves one very complex substance and tries to save it through several channels. Of course, we are now going to the first reading, or we are just finishing it, and it is expected that in the second reading we will elaborate and shed light on all these points, which now seem to be in some way unlit. But to commend it is certainly the efforts of the government and the ministries to try to deepen into this and that almost a decade of accumulated problems in this area are being solved. We have had very large responses from the interested, especially the professional public when it comes to this law, and I would like to point out perhaps two that have not yet been enlightened today. The first is the work of public servants in the design profession, because the law, as it is set out, does not yet offer a solution in this regard – I think it is also necessary to adapt the provisions of the law on the work of public servants in the design field in their name and on their own account, because the purpose of the projector, the landscape architect in the public institution and the public service, just means that this knowledge is extremely good. But this knowledge cannot be strengthened, maintained, and deepened if it is not allowed to continue in design. That is why I think we will have to do something else in this area, because if these public servants are a problem because the state pays them taxes and maybe someone sees that they are privileged compared to colleagues in the market, then we can say that in this same position they are also pensioners and those with the status of self-employed in culture and not least professors, university and secondary school. Of course, the issue of inequality can be raised in this light, and God does not discriminate. Thus, those who operate through businesses also pay this difference in the budget and contribute to the common good, so we will probably try to solve this problem in this sense. This is a very common problem for retired architects and engineers, even though they are retired and inactive, to place their stamps of an authorized engineer and architect on a container or to resell them. Worse still, many times these people enjoy gardening or some kind of terminal infusion, and their sons and daughters market these presses. This must no longer happen, so we will certainly solve this problem with this law. First of all, we need to look at young architects, landscape architects who are basically studying excellent studies and, after the end of the study, they face a practice that is extremely closed and difficult to live in, it is difficult to start their own life and their own business, so we need to have a particularly open eye in this area. Many times, in the drafting of Slovenian legislation, we are citing or adhering to Scandinavian legislation. Since I am from this area too, I must say that many times Finland is the best example of legislation and I can also say that in Finland, the most numerous professions are the teacher, architect, doctor and forester. I see just the efforts of this law in that it in some way introduces the same numbering, to say the same when it comes to the profession of engineers, architects and landscape architects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u59	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. Yeah? I'm sorry. Is there anyone else? No, just Mr. Ivan Prelog. Here you go. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you. The proposed Act on Architecture and Engineering provides for some major solutions that I will try to narrow down in five points: for the first time, it builds on the existing system of conditions and procedures for obtaining licences and powers. Secondly, this law provides or regulates the form of service management in which an authorised architect or engineer may perform tasks falling within the scope of the profession. Thirdly, this law provides for a master level of education in all regulated professions as an appropriate education. Fourthly, this law also includes an authorised engineer in the field of geodesy. And fifthly, this law introduces monitoring of the acquisition of professional experience by the mentor and mandatory continuous professional training. I do not consider this bill to be ideal, but I will support it at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you, too. This also concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a civil code. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 52 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mrs Lidija Stebernak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Messengers and Members! The basic objective of the construction law is to reduce investment risk, to improve the legal certainty of investment intentions, to integrate procedures, to enable the coordination of security and development interests, to inform procedures, to strengthen the responsibility of participants in construction, to remove administrative barriers and to legalise non-problems. Greater investor legal certainty is ensured through innovations such as the legalisation of non-binding provision of information, advice and assistance to the investor prior to the start of the authorisation procedure, the optional possibility of obtaining a pre-decision on the location conditions of the building, which undertakes to issue a building permit in the subsequent procedure, irrespective of changes to the rules or arrangements after the decision has been made and the conditions for the enforcement of legal protection are met. Among the most important innovations in the law is the integration of the procedures for issuing the building permit and environmental consent. By combining the two procedures, which consequently means one competent authority and several participating bodies, one documentation, one single call for party participants, one decision and one single possibility of enforcement, the procedure is rationalised, it becomes more effective, and thus indirectly and in an absolute sense shorter, cheaper and more economical. The objective of integration of procedures is also achieved through the retraining of consensus in opinions. By doing so, the consents shall have the character of separate administrative acts, allowing the investor to coordinate them in the process of issuing the building permit and allowing the administrative authority to take a decision in such a way as to ensure a balance of development and security interests. The draft law follows the objective of legal basis for the informationisation of all procedures governed by the law, thus consistently pursuing the objective of e-business. The aim of the law is also to ensure consistent exercise of the responsibility of the participants in the construction process, as well as to strengthen the role of the municipalities in the proceedings. Thus, the municipality is given the legal basis for giving an opinion in the process of issuing a building permit on the compatibility of the intended construction with spatial acts, while at the same time the original competence of the municipalities to control compliance with municipal rules is proposed for construction that do not require a building permit. With the aim of removing administrative barriers, a number of new solutions are included in the bill: facilitated conditions for the execution of certain types of construction, such as the removal of buildings, seasonal facilities and minor reconstruction, the possibility of conducting a reduced procedure for the issuance of a building permit, the simplified procedure for the issuance of usable permits, the acquisition of a building permit on the basis of more concise and intermediately less difficult documentation and the possibility of minor deviations from the construction permit. The bill builds on a more active preventive role of inspection services on the construction site itself. To this end, it is proposed to legalise the start-up phase, which will facilitate the monitoring and recording of construction sites and improve the effective control of all inspection services in construction sites. With regard to illegal construction, the key objective of the law is to eliminate as much as possible the reasons for the emergence of illegal construction, by implementing systemic solutions and simplifying the Proposal for a Construction Law and the Law on the Regulation of Space. Systematic legalisation is also proposed in terms of the lengthening of pursuits for longer-lasting objects for 20 years or more and for existing facilities legalisation during a transitional period on the basis of the rules in force at the time of construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u63	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you again, chairman. Nice hello to you all! Soon after the adoption of the Construction Law 14 years ago, in short, in 2003, it became more than clear that it did not produce or produce the desired effects. Unfortunately, the entire space-building legislation is still flawed and lacking in many ways. Unfortunately, many amendments to the Construction Act and other spatial legislation have not significantly improved. We have before us a proposal for a construction law that new rules the conditions for the construction of buildings and other issues related thereto. This is a major change, among which, according to the United Left, there are many improvements. However, there are also some contentious issues, particularly with regard to interference with environmental protection procedures and standards. While there are positive changes, we can stress the possibility of legalisation of certain objects, but of course we must not forget the risk of degradation of space if it is not managed thoughtfully, which of course will have to be taken into account in the legalisation procedures. The reintroduction of the usable permit is also positive, which will largely prevent further illegal constructions. One of the major acquisitions of the bill is the extension of the building inspection powers and the increased role of the construction supervisor. In particular, the role of the supervisor is currently too passive, although the supervisor or the supervisor’s function is a link between the designer and the contractor; a binding article that must monitor compliance with the required requirements during construction; in short, during construction. We can also expose the mandatory conclusion of a contract between an investor, a designer, a supervisor and an operator who sets out more clearly the lines of responsibility. It is positive that the essential requirements to be met by the facilities are also given sustainable use of resources, although, let us be clear, the question of how this is intended to be ensured in practice must be clarified in further consideration of this law. However, there are also problematic solutions to this proposal. The integration of the process of issuing the building permit and the process of obtaining environmental consensus on behalf of the removal, I quote, "administrative barriers and increasing competitiveness", which is already a well-established excuse for the government and coalition. While it is true that the environmental impact assessment process will continue to be carried out in accordance with the rules governing environmental protection, since at the same time there is a promise to amend these laws, this can only be seen as another slide in environmental protection standards. In the United Left, we believe that existing legislation does not represent insurmountable administrative obstacles for investors, which we may not be able to say for the administration alone at the level of ministries, agencies, offices and so on. Of course, it's not a matter of regulating the law, it's a matter of implementing legislation. The dispute is also a re-qualification of the building consensus, which has so far been independent legal acts, into so-called opinions, which will only, as a rule, be the basis for building a building permit. In the new opinion, the Administrative Authority will be able to coordinate and, in extreme cases, even overlook their content. Once the administrative authority has overlooked an opinion in the process of obtaining a building permit for an investor, such as Kemis, we will be able to listen again after a new environmental accident to some unfortunate officials who will be pushed forward for everything to be in line with the legislation. Because of this, we will abstain from voting in the United Left in the first reading, but of course we will actively cooperate, we will also table a series of amendments, and I hope that we will somehow improve these loopholes in the law, which, as I said, we have to be honest, brings some good solutions. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u65	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u66	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The construction law, which will replace the current Construction Law, regulates this area completely in a new way, brings a number of significant innovations. Some of the major improvements made by the new construction law are in the issue of a building permit, namely the removal of buildings will no longer require a building permit, nor will it be necessary for temporary facilities intended for events and seasonal use, as well as for smaller reconstructions. It will be mandatory to provide non-binding information, advice and assistance to investors by making a decision, ensuring the investor’s security of its investment. It is also welcome to propose integration of the construction and environmental permit by combining the two procedures, which consequently means one competent authority and several participating authorities, one documentation and the simultaneous call of party participants, one decision and one opportunity to enforce legal remedies. The process is being rationalized, it's becoming more effective. The proposed amendment to the re-qualification of consents to the opinion shall also make it easier for the competent legal authority to decide in the procedure. The proposal of the Law also gives the municipalities more powers, especially in carrying out inspection. The municipal construction inspector would be the supervisor of all simple facilities: advertising panels, rooftops, garden sheds, winter gardens, garages, fruit dryers, all the way to football courts without stands. This proposal does not appeal to the congregations because it brings them new responsibilities — inspectors so far are not qualified for this type of work. The city of Ljubljana supports this proposal mainly from the point of view of advertising boards, where it also makes a lot of money. The bill also allows for the legalisation of non-problem constructions. For non-hazardous facilities over 20 years of age, owners will be able to obtain a special conditional permit for a longer-stay facility and thus avoid inspection procedures. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the legalisation of illegal construction is so complex and so big a problem that we need a special law to deal with such a problem, following the example of the neighbouring country of Croatia as well as the republics of the former Yugoslavia, which have begun to solve it substantially earlier. In Slovenia we have about 300,000 buildings, which are either black or not in accordance with the regulation. The Law on Legalisation and Permitted Construction is also the basis for the law on property tax, which the Government has postponed to the next term and the law, which has already been approved in Parliament, has been repealed by the Constitutional Court for incomplete records. For the purposes of legalisation only, quality records would be obtained for the regulation in this area, both for this tax and for the charging of the municipalities of compensation for the use of building land. The classification of the facilities set out in the proposal for a regulation also needs to be updated slightly, particularly in the case of non-residential agricultural buildings for harvesting crops. In fact, so far there is no corrosive silo in the classification, but only tower silos that have not been built for more than ten years. But there is no place for corrosive forces — no one knows where to put them or how to deal with them. In the New Slovenia Group we draw attention to one very pressing problem which is in the Slovenian municipalities. Often there are cases where a road or part of a municipal decree is categorised as a public road, and according to the Land Book, such land is privately owned. Such conduct interferes with the property rights of individuals. The draft law does not solve this problem, nor does it provide a solution. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that this is one of the key problems of the municipalities and that it is necessary to find a solution to this problem as well. Because in Slovenia there are supposed to be about 23,000 kilometres of such roads on private land. We know that only what is owned by the congregation or by the state, but not by private property, can be public. According to some estimates, only geodetic services to regulate this would cost more than €2 billion at today's geodetic prices. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal in the first reading in the hope that, through the debate, we will also make all the shortcomings or upgrade this law, which brings quite a few novelties, eliminates both administrative and bureaucratic obstacles, but it is not what they still have in Western countries. In fact, we should set ourselves some goals; the goal, let's say that within six months a supplement to the UNO or the adoption of the UNO and the building permit could be issued in, say, one month, which some of our southern neighbours already have. We see the biggest problem in space regulators who, through the procedure itself, are constantly adapting to either current thinking or behaviour, or I don't know what else is making the procedures more difficult. Operators of space regulation, those who are essential both in the process of obtaining spatial acts and building permits, should have their own acts rather than legalising their thinking, then it may be possible to impose this burden on investors at present by means of municipal acts. I think there's a lot of work to be done in this area. We also believe that the severe pressures of certain lobbyists on this side were on the very author of the law, who, in spite of this situation, has done much. However, I hope that we will improve this by the fall when this legislation is supposed to be all under the roof. However, we have probably improved in the next step in the new composition; that the new government will have to move forward in order to be competitive with foreign countries, both under local self-government and under certain rules, substantially ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u67	Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The legal area of spatial regulation and construction is one of the fundamental development areas, which generally strongly defines social development for settlement regulation on the one hand and with an impact on economic development through the regulation of construction and economic facilities and infrastructure on the other. Construction legislation is inseparably linked to space legislation and therefore the shortcomings of spatial legislation are necessarily reflected in the area of construction and vice versa. The professional public, investors and other interested public point out that the current Construction Act, which was adopted in 2002, which was subsequently amended several times, did not strike the desired balance between the need for the speed of construction and the need to protect the rights of third parties. Nor did it provide the desired results with regard to the simplification of administrative procedures and the construction process under the existing law still poses a relatively large financial burden for investors by purchasing land, producing a project and paying taxes at the beginning of the construction idea, with a further risk that they will not obtain a building permit at all. From these and other perceived shortcomings in the current legislation, the need for a new construction law to fully replace the existing regulation has emerged. The shortcomings of the building legislation so far have also contributed to the fact that we face a number of illegal constructions in Slovenia, while under-inspecting the speed of building the premises. In recent years we have also witnessed some media rebuttal cases in which the issue of necessity has been reopened, as well as the unnecessary need for systematic legalisation of facilities. In the analysis carried out in 2013, it was found that more than 8 000 cases in which construction inspections were carried out were carried out, 77 % of the cases in which less demanding facilities were dealt with, in 17,7 % of the non-requisitive facility, 2,8 % of the demanding facilities and 2,5 % of the simple facilities, indicating, on the other hand, that they were the majority of illegal works for those which could be legalized and could be attributed, on the other hand, to avoid costs and also to administrative burdens to be addressed in the novel or in the revised legislation. The core objectives of the new law, as assessed by the Modern Centre Party, follow the commitments of the Government following the regulation of this area with the following specific objectives or solutions: reducing investment risk and increasing the legal security of investment intentions; building facilities, both for residence and economic purposes, should not pose a risk for investors concerned in the sense that investors should have a relatively large part of the investment for documentation and levies at the end of the process without knowing whether they will obtain the building permit at all; the state should be more friendly and predictable to investors at the beginning of the investment, offering them all the necessary information. Furthermore, the proposal introduces the integration of the procedures for issuing a building permit and environmental agreement, which aims at rationalisation and a uniform procedure for issuing a building permit without duplication of documentation and requirements and equal procedural actions in separate procedures so far. The legislative analyses carried out in practice also show that separate procedures for issuing a building permit and environmental consent, for example, affect not only the greater bureaucracy associated with the acquisition of a building permit, but also the reason for Slovenia's non-competitiveness due to the longevity of the proceedings. The proposal for a law aimed at de-liberating procedures also foresees that the consensus so far, which have been separate administrative acts, will be reclassified in opinions which the investor can also obtain and attach to the request for a building permit and thereby significantly reduce the procedure for issuing a building permit. The law further provides for the possibility of coordination of security and development interests, the informationisation of procedures, the strengthening of the responsibility of participants in construction, as already mentioned in other solutions to remove administrative barriers, as well as the legalisation of non-problem facilities through systemic legalisation for longer-term objects. The law, however, excludes content relating to the regulation of professions and activities of authorised architects and engineers, since this area is under a new subject of a separate law, namely the Law on Authorised Architects and Engineers, which also represents an important part of the changes in the field of construction and spatial legislation and we have addressed it in the preceding paragraph. In this mandate, the government has committed itself to joining the coordination of spatial, environmental and construction legislation, and the result is also the building law on our tables. The proposal was the subject of a long-standing public debate and was given a strong response by the professional public. Since this is a matter of extensive change, it is understandable that we are receiving numerous comments, including those of the congregations that we have already heard about today, at this stage when we are considering the law in the National Assembly. In a given hearing, the content of the law can be further improved by obtaining a legislative and legal opinion, perhaps in the direction of proposals from certain stakeholders. The law follows the objective of creating faster, more transparent and simpler procedures and the objective of greater efficiency in adopting spatial plans at the municipal and state spatial level – this is also in combination with the law that is still expected in the National Assembly – and we believe that the proposal for a construction law is suitable for further consideration in the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u69	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! We are again considering the law that is within the so-called troika, and I reiterate that this law should be dealt with after we consider the Law on Space Management. The construction area is governed by the Construction Act, the PGI-1, which was adopted in 2002, entered into force in 2003 and was subsequently amended several times. The law is inseparably linked to space legislation and therefore the shortcomings of spatial legislation are necessarily reflected in the area of construction. It follows from the analyses presented in the assessment of the situation in the field of the Construction Law – 1 that the law has not achieved all the objectives set out, and therefore the proposaler replaces the existing Construction Law with two new laws, namely the Construction Law and the Act on Architecture and Engineering. I reiterate that all these objectives, which have not been achieved or have not been met by law, go primarily to the implementation of the law and to the exercise of control over the implementation of the law. Such a new law, even if divided, without fair control and regulation in this area, will not bring added value. The proposal of the construction law, which is before us, extends the definition of the facility to a larger number of other construction operations, i.e. also to physical, construction and similar interventions in the ground structures, which do not have the characteristics of an object by narrow definition of the current law. For example, the fortifications and arrangements of land, embankment and excavations, the installation of certain movable objects for permanent use at the same location and so on. The proposal provides for some reliefs under the conditions for the start-up and use of buildings, namely the suspension of the obligation to obtain a building permit for the removal of buildings, only a declaration of the start-up of construction is required, the suspension of the obligation to obtain a construction permit for temporary facilities and the extension of the scope of maintenance works for which it is not compulsory to obtain a building permit for minor reconstructions. The bill provides the legal basis for informing procedures, since it already provides for the submission of all requests and applications electronically via the spatial information system. The spatial information system project is fully operational and includes an e-authorisation and e-conclusion project and its conclusion is foreseen in 2021. It is also proposed that the non-binding provision of information, advice and assistance to the investor be legalised. The draft law provides for the option of obtaining a decision on compliance with spatial acts and rules of the Law on the regulation of premises and a regulation in the field of opinionaries. Among the more visible innovations is the integration of the procedure for issuing a building permit and environmental consent, which seeks to rationalise procedures, as only one permit process and no longer separate procedures would be followed up. It is said that the issue of environmental consent in a stand-alone procedure, which is now a condition for the issue of a building permit, and then in the second phase of the acquisition of a building permit. The bill also integrates the acquisition of opinions issued for the purpose of obtaining a building permit. So far, the consensus that have been separate administrative acts is reclassified in opinions that are generally the basis for the issue of a building permit for the competent administrative authority, with the possibility that opinions issued without a legal basis, uncoordinated opinions or conflicting opinions shall, in extreme cases, also overlook their content in the case of the silence of the opinioners, and, at the re-examination of the competent administrative authority for construction matters, even replace the lack of discretion of the opinionaries with the assistance of the authority responsible for the supervision of the employer, or with the assistance of the expert paid by the opinionary. The proposal for a law provides for a shorter procedure for issuing a building permit. The condition for the conduct of the procedure as reduced is to submit the consent of all persons having the status of party to the procedure: owners of neighbouring land, owner of land, of course where the investor is not also the owner of the land, all the opinions prescribed and the positive opinion of the municipality on compliance with spatial acts and other rules of the municipalities. A mandatory new construction phase is required, i.e. a declaration of the start of construction for all constructions requiring the acquisition of a building permit, with the exception of certain exceptions: the construction of a simple building, the maintenance of buildings and maintenance works for public benefit. The bill provides for a greater role and responsibility for participants, as well as for building inspections and other competent inspections. Although appointed by the investor, the supervisor, who must meet the conditions for an authorised architect or engineer, is envisaged as that participant in the construction, who must be on track to meet the prescribed requirements during the construction process, in particular on compliance with the construction permit and to meet the essential requirements. In this way, the supervisor is not only a link between the designer when he does not act as a supervisor himself but also has an obligation to the State, as he is assigned such tasks as to force him to play an active role in the construction site and thus to exercise more effective control over the construction. The construction process shall be concluded mutatis mutandis by means of a valid permit, which shall be a mandatory stage for all works for which a building permit is prescribed. Objects for which a building permit is prescribed, other than non-requisite facilities, may only be used after the licence has been granted. In all cases, facilities, except for demanding facilities and facilities with environmental impacts, may be replaced by a usable permit by statements from the designer, the construction manager and the contractor. The bill provides for a stronger role for municipalities in both the authorisation process and the supervision of the implementation of its rules. In the process of issuing a building permit, the proposal of the law provides for the municipality as a mandatory judge, thus comparing it with other opinionators acting as the Ombudsman. In monitoring the implementation of works for which there is no need to obtain building permits under the law, but in the work relating to compliance with spatial acts and other rules of the municipalities. The bill provides for the inspection of such interventions as the original jurisdiction of the municipalities. The proposed solutions relating to legalisation are mainly addressed to two groups of facilities, namely, longer-term facilities over 20 years of age or more and the possibility of legalisation in a transitional period of five years from the entry into force of the law, with the possibility of assessing compliance with illegal construction in accordance with the rules in force at the time of the start of construction. The draft law also provides for the identification and recording of construction plots which are constituted by the issue of a building permit in accordance with the Law on the Regulation of Area 2. The determination of construction plots and their maintenance or control over their modification is of paramount importance for the realisation of spatial acts, as spatial implementation conditions, deviations, building factors and so on are linked to construction plots and are also important for the purposes of calculating taxes and other duties. The proposal for a construction law provides for an extension of jurisdiction and an increased scope of part of the construction inspection carried out within the framework of the Environment and Space Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which is why the proposer for the staffing of the inspection foresees financial implications for the state budget for the part of the inspection. The law will also have positive financial implications, most of which will be the legalisation of existing facilities and effective inspection controls. The bill thus foresees positive consequences for both state and municipal budgets. The construction law, as well as the other two laws relating to spatial planning or spatial planning, is the Law on the regulation of space, the ZUreP-2 and the Act on architectural and engineering activities, already in the process of acceptance in the Government, as well as following the adoption of several comments by the professional associations: the Engineering Chambers of Slovenia, the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia, the Community of Slovenia, the Municipal Inspection Services, the Association of Municipal, Municipal and International Inspectors, the Supervisors of Slovenia, the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Architecture in Ljubljana and the University of Maribor, the Faculty of Construction, Transport Engineering and Architecture, and many other individuals. I believe that all these comments at further stages of the adoption of the law can improve the content of the law. On the basis of all the debates that will continue at the home working committee at all stages of adoption, we will also decide in the parliamentary group whether to support or not to support the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u71	Mr Ivan Hršak will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In this mandate, the Ministry of Environment and Space has undertaken a recast of legislation in another very pressing area, which has been on hold for amendments virtually since the adoption of the legislation in force. It's about building legislation. Shortly after the adoption of the current Law on the Construction of Buildings in 2005 and several later novelties, it appeared that, despite good intentions, legislation has not achieved the desired results and has not facilitated new investments, reduced the waiting for building permits and so on. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, it is also possible to expect mixed responses in the amendment of this legislation, as in the case of chimney law, for example. Some will support the proposed changes and see them as a big step forward; others will criticise that certain rules are being overly relaxed. The construction law, which, as has already been said, will replace the existing Construction Law, this area is completely new. The proposal brings a number of important innovations, covers a larger area of construction, several buildings and construction operations and facilities regardless of their connection to the soil. This would facilitate conditions for certain constructions that could be carried out without a building permit. The building permit will therefore no longer be required for temporary facilities intended for events and seasonal use and for minor reconstructions, nor will it be necessary for the removal of objects. Nevertheless, it will, of course, be necessary to apply for the start of construction. Mandatory advice and information to investors and non-binding information will be introduced for the competent authorities. At the same time, investors will be allowed to obtain a so-called decision which is binding in the subsequent procedure of issuing a building permit. On the basis of this document, the investor will be able to decide whether to buy any land at all and at the same time to protect himself against unexpected changes, such as a change in the spatial act or plan. It is highly commendable that a building permit can be obtained on the basis of narrow and formally less demanding documentation. However, the deadline for issuing the building permit will be only five months from the submission of the complete application. It is also commendable that the construction law will bring together the process of issuing the building permit and the environmental agreement, as environmental impact assessment will be carried out at the stage of issuing the building permit. There will therefore be only one procedure to conclude with a single building permit with a justification that will satisfy both environmental and building regulations. A shorter procedure for issuing a building permit will also be available and permit procedures can also be electronic. The municipalities will have a greater role to play in issuing permits, as their opinion will be binding. The law has positive financial implications for the municipalities, mainly on the basis of the legalisation of black-built buildings, i.e. without a building permit, as well as those constructed otherwise than permitted under a building permit. It is envisaged that in the five years since the entry into force of the Act about 9,000 such facilities, which are over 20 years old, should be legalised. Legalisation will therefore be possible in cases where less problematic and older facilities are involved, which means that legalisation will not be carried out at all. And it is the legalisation of the facilities that the municipalities, as well as the state, will be able to bring in additional money. It is estimated that the State and the municipality would receive EUR 7.2 million after the adoption of the law on the basis of compensation for environmental degradation or space degradation, each in half. Of course, we must not forget the payment of a municipal contribution, which should also be paid when legalised, and the amount varies from the municipality to the municipality, and this contribution to the municipalities is expected to bring EUR 90 million. Although some constructions will no longer need a building permit, they will still be closely controlled by the competent and inspection services. The proposal for a construction law foresees an expansion of jurisdiction and an increased scope of part of the construction inspection. The current 70 construction inspectors, currently examining around 11,000 cases, will be joined by a new one, as the bill foresees a number of additional jobs, including in the area of immovable cultural heritage, i.e. at the Cultural and Media Inspectorate. At this point, we must point out that most inspections or inspections are being carried out with the aim of applying by citizens and citizens. However, inspection measures are expected to bring around around €30 million in state and municipal cash. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be united in their support for the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u73	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! The second law of the troika will be postponed because one of the key laws, namely the Environmental Regulation Act, is still in September's edition. But before us is a proposal for a new construction law, whose main objective in some way is to reduce the risks of investment in construction buildings, so that we in some way give appropriate legal basis for more efficient and user-friendly guidance to investors and inform investors. On the one hand, we are integrating the building permit and the environmental permit, which should significantly reduce the administrative burden and the time frame of the process of obtaining the opportunity to start an investment, while also limiting the legal remedies against the building permit so that this can be done once in a single line, not in more parallel processes than it is today. One of the key points of this Act is also the retraining of consensus into mandatory opinions, where an additional state goes against investors, both small and large, with the possibility that in cases where there is no opinion or opinions, the administrative authority will either take place as a mediator or as one who finds silence and concludes the procedure. However, in the event of mediation, it is of course appropriate to enable the translation of opinions, if possible, and thus to enable the continuation of the procedure for obtaining a building permit as soon as possible and as effectively as possible in the spirit of a friendly administration. The often used strategic direction of the country is, of course, also the digitisation of all business processes of citizens and citizens as well as legal persons, one of the implementing laws of this strategic direction not only in Slovenia but also in the wider European space. The law provides or provides adequate grounds for all building requirements to be placed electronically through a special portal. At the point of participation of all key stakeholders in the acquisition or intervention of space, the role of the local community or municipalities at the point of identification or giving appropriate opinions on the compatibility of works with spatial acts and the rules in the area of spatial regulation is strengthened, in the context of the fact that part of the competence to control facilities without the required building permit is transferred to municipal inspectors, of course, something that we will need to further clarify in the legislative process below and perhaps to find a complementary solution. However, this is an important step forward, as is the acquisition or possibility of making pre-decisions on the basis of prepared technical projects, one of the key options for Slovenia to become investors in the construction of buildings or investors that need to significantly cut into space for its investments, including a more friendly country, while taking into account all the environmental standards that we have already set ourselves; at least we hope the Social Democrats will tighten in the future. Of course, the key to this decision is that the administrative authority can direct the relevant investor either with positive or negative information as to whether a particular location or investment technology is appropriate in a particular area or not. With the appropriate design basis of the investor, a high degree of certainty can already be provided for further progress in the acquisition of the building permit and thereby significantly reduce the procedures for obtaining the building permit. Which is also one of the news; therefore, in the presence of all consents and opinions, we can introduce a reduced acquisition procedure under this law. This will, in particular, be taken into account in less demanding investments, which is particularly welcome for citizens and citizens. What we could say is acting in this law as part of the logic of a healthy farmer’s mind, but it is a provision of a law that allows for some meaningful tolerance in the withdrawal of construction and prevents anyone, even the most minimal, from even completely logical tolerance in the construction of inspectors from taking measures or finding that it is incompatible construction. Here, of course, we are not talking about substantial derogations, but about completely life-threatening cases, when there are some deviations from the basic project, which appear because of the logic of the work being done. Last but not least, the law also addresses the legalisation of facilities where we have two groups of the latter, namely those which have been placed in the space and have existed for 20 years or more and the possibility of legalisation during a transitional period of five years, with the possibility of also assessing compliance with illegal construction in accordance with regulations that have, of course, been in force at the time of construction and not today. The bill will, of course, when the legislative procedure is concluded – I believe that it will be positively concluded – in the case of this and the previous law, it will only get its full function and operationality when we are and if we will also adopt the Law on the regulation of premises accordingly. This is certainly an extremely difficult and extremely important matter, and the basic objective of which is to make it as easy as possible to make the way to a successful investment as possible, while ensuring the safety of all key stakeholders and, above all, protecting public interest in the area of spatial and environmental protection, we will support the law by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u75	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. He's got the word as the first Dr. Franz Ducky. Let's get the mags ready. Matthew Tonin and Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, chairman, once again. From the session, I ran to talk to the power distributors to explain a little about the case. We also talked about the low, medium-voltage networks, which are often common citizens if you are not an expert, and you do not even go. We talked about these changes that we're talking about here, and in fact, where you're sometimes simplifying and when you're not. That's, like, like, a case like this where you could say, up to 45 kilos is one thing. They said — perhaps because they had come to talk to the United Left — that the environmental part was being placed too slowly, not that it was too much and too much. This is where we talked about prevention – you talked about derogation, about legalization. I also agree with some of the speakers who have already mentioned today that we should take this matter the other way around: first the Law on Space Management, then somehow the people who will do it. But okay, you've decided somehow to drive as you drive. Another example that we might think of is that, in general, I always get a laugh at the houses in the trees. On the whole of Pohorje we could have – better popular for anyone to say glamping – some of these units and "go" tourism, as it were, go to Scandinavia. It's not for hot water to detect. But if I wanted to put this in place now, I would die. Where there is actually a problem, I would not underestimate the municipalities and mayors and the people working there, but from my professional conduct, it has already entered into the second largest congregation in the country. Ljubljana has this partly arranged, whatever we think, but then the problem is also at the communication level of the municipality-the administrative unit. Sometimes it is necessary — and there is nothing wrong — to sit together and talk before you go into any kind of procedure, and then you don’t pile the devil on your head and the media and everything. Someone mentioned some Austrian practice here, which he knows relatively well, but here we are running into what I was saying at the previous point. Of course, it's a purely different spatial culture if I put it that way. When you're a little cocky, they can't just shoot a little bit on their own. When you don't have five neighbors of three who are going to "blaze" the facades so that if you go to the garden to do something to make your eyes hurt – to explain on some of these, all of the most comprehensible cases. Here is this mannequin of communication, in fact what we forget as the National Assembly, as well as time is running out, because we are a little too hard to legislate laws, even how laws are implemented in practice and some of this little amendment, manna and ears and eyes on our side, to somehow listen to the ground. We're not the smartest people in the world. People who do things daily have a lot to tell us that legislation would be better. If I look at what's changing here and what's a little bit problematic right now. We often talk about removing administrative barriers, but you know. But when we say that, we must not lower certain standards at the same time. We probably already have a problem, but I know that we have it, during the environmental and spatial work at the Ministry itself, only when it is somehow continued. Until this Kemis happened, and I'm almost the only one who's been talking about environmental matters. You all had: but business, and this, and what kind of French Zavrl told Mr. Restorative that he must say ecoterorist, because it sounds good to the omica to be afraid, but it also shows, you know, to some of our aggregate status, where and how we are. One thing, legalization. Of course, we must resolve this matter, but we must also ask ourselves why we are in a society and a country where we have 300,000 of these matters. So if I went more closely to look at some plans, but that's good, Dani's gimmick – depending. [[…]] We can be sharper, we can be less sharp about it, we can type numbers more, we can do less. But that's also a lot because you don't have this education and you don't have some kind of support mechanism. I always ask my architecture students if any of you would specialize in barns. And they looked at me so strangely, and the last generation thinks a little bit, and they say why not. For example, colleague Lach mentioned corrosive silhouettes. Most of this may seem, I don't know, science fiction, but some very specific case that you have when you want to do some activity that you actually have to deal with. It seems to me that this overcategorization seems to me, as well as to anyone else in the coalition who prefers to remain silent. Because I have a feeling this case isn't going to work out very well on some administration unit. You know, if I say a little bit at home, you can have someone on some administrative unit who's a little bit more than me, and maybe he'll be a little heavy on someone else who's waiting to retire, if I say a little bad. These matters should be considered a little more seriously. Greater jurisdiction of inspection services Yes, okay, great! [[…]] But again, I'm afraid, municipal inspection services, at least in the ranking, while we don't have regions, to think about some of the Medo-Chinese, that we actually have some people who are properly educated for it. At this point, I would stop, I could talk even more, but I think that these warnings must be taken seriously, and I also hope that we will take the Law on Space Regulation very seriously in view of all that is happening to us in the last year of this mandate, and we will give it an appropriate attention. And I told the power distributor ten minutes ago - what? We would need a DN for ten years, a ten-year DN and would say a DN for electricity distribution, where the DN would also clearly define what cableling is and when cableling is. Then we could all work together more easily; well, who in politics would run out of room for some civil initiatives. Then, of course, in the context of ten years, watch the world change: VAT for cycling routes, VAT for reindustrialisation, serious VAT for a degraded area We need this kind of concern. [[…]] This kind of healthy, thoughtful part of all these spatial lines, of course, tells me that this is the manna that we think too little about with these changes in legislation. However, I hope that that part of the National Assembly, which we come from some professions, including administrative units, who – but not a colleague – will cooperate constructively and we will not get, if I say so at home, a slightly different slab. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u77	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, prepare for Mr Simon Zajc and Mr Zvonko Lah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u78	Dear Members, Members, good afternoon! The building legislation and legislation that touches the placement in space is alpha and omega primarily for the economy and for the development of this country. Without effective legislation of this kind, of course, the economy suffers and, in the final instance, citizens and we have a number of problems. In the past or so far, we have had a rather unfortunate hand as far as such legislation is concerned. Those of you who are familiar with the area, you know that this legislation has changed, and very quickly in some time periods, which means that not one change has gone well, there has already been another; that those things that have been beautifully written in the law have not been implemented in practice. For example, one such thing is the adoption of municipal spatial plans when the adoption of the legislation at that time was told how this will be done quickly and arranged, but today there are congregations that do not have on the newly adopted municipal spatial plans. It is these long-term procedures that have somehow ruined the lives of many entrepreneurs, as well as completely ordinary citizens, who wanted to build a very simple facility or to expand the existing facility in any other way. In countries that give something for the future and development, of course spatial planning, building legislation, putting into space the key heart where things are being prepared, so that things can also be planned for 10, 15 years in advance, as far as space regulation is concerned. In Slovenia, however, I have a feeling that recently, practically from municipal levels, everything goes further according to the policy of enforced facts. So something is done, something is created, and then space acts have to be adapted. It would be very nice, I know that in words it is much easier to do things than in practice, but in spite of everything for some long-term positive development of Slovenia, as well as for reducing these regional differences, it would be extremely useful for these things to be planned a little longer in the future. I think that all the misery in the legislation we currently have shows the exact case of Magna, where it was necessary to adopt a special law for a completely normal investment if anything was complicated in regular placement procedures. I think that this law was a clear alarm that it was necessary to change the set, a whole bunch of legislation that went into putting objects in the building space and so forth. The government has now come with some laws. The first law we are considering today, the second is the construction law. I think when we talk today about these general starting points, how these things are supposed to be set up, it is imperative that I at least tell you how I see that you will not say that I am merely criticising how I see some effective legislation in this area. I imagine this in particular so that the adoption of municipal spatial plans should be a much faster procedure; a procedure where public officials should be asked less and where things would have been smoother after some logical inertia of the procedure. Because if we get to the municipal spatial plans relatively quickly, that means we're going to lay down the rules of the game, where something can and cannot be done. Once we have a map of where we can and where we can't go, then a building permit comes in to set up buildings in those areas. Here, too, every government, if you want any policy, has written in its programmes that things need to be improved, that procedures for obtaining building permits need to be reduced. The solutions written in the law follow these ideas in a certain way. Again, how these things will be implemented in practice is crucial. Like some law in the past, where things might have been relatively well written on paper, then implementation in practice somehow failed. This will need to be addressed in particular after the adoption of these laws. I also think that another area that I would like to mention and that we are in some way reaching out to in these laws is tolerance or individual derogations. Life can sometimes be very unpredictable, but what acts can be very rigorous and unrelenting. Sometimes it would be good for this country to have civil service too, and if you wanted the policy not to be misunderstood, you would often use a healthy farmer's mind. When we talk about certain economic buildings, objects, for example, sometimes there are some solutions that are very tragic or pointless, that where it is clearly clear to everyone at first sight that the object could still be expanded to some extent, the spatial acts do not allow it, but in practice this enlargement would not significantly aggravate the living conditions of the surrounding population, or otherwise increase the risk or other impacts on the environment. In such cases, certain rules should be established within the law when such derogations or tolerance are permitted. Someone will say, yes then it means once again the Wild West that everyone will be able to do what they want, because in the end they will always count on some tolerant articles or because a derogation is allowed, but it seems to me that if we set some rules, in which cases and in what kind of relationship it is possible to derogate from some acts, then I think we would solve a lot of difficult living circumstances or some business decisions, thereby making a lot of things better in the country without endangering the lives of others in any other way or increasing the danger. On this segment, as far as derogations and tolerance are concerned, I will also be extremely careful in the following cases. Another area that I would like to address in my debate is the topic of this law, but the legalisation of black buildings. I am on the side of those who say that if an object can be legalized, it is better to legalize it than to demolish it. Of course, at least on condition that it stands in some of those places that are normal for construction. Of course, I'm not talking about these things again, but someone decided to put something on Kredarica, and then they thought it would be possible to legalize it if I caricated a little bit. But I don't know, the legacy of the past country, as far as black construction is concerned, is quite extensive. It seems necessary to me that we have been living in Slovenia alone for so long, that it is also necessary to establish normal European standards in this area in some way; which means that what can be legitimately legalised must be legalised as easily and as quickly as possible, and that what cannot be legalised must be broken down and thus come to nothing, where such building legislation is then strictly and very clearly respected. In this respect, I would particularly like to point out why the law specifically restricts the need for buildings to be 20 years old. If we wanted to make a starting point of zero, then I wouldn't set that limit. If we want to solve the problem of blacksmithing in this country, then at some point the things that exist, those that can be resolved, resolved, closed and moved on, because the prescribed age of the 20-year legalisation facility will cause problems again. Those who will have facilities of 15 years of age may be threatened if the inspection is very effective and they are quick to break their facilities because they will not be able to legalize things in due course. Those who will have, I don't know, a 21-year-old facility, but they'll be able to do that. I also say everything in terms of equality of citizens. So that no one gets it wrong, I don't support blacksmithing. But what I'm talking about is that if two citizens have black construction and a building is 15 years old and a facility is 21 years old, the one with a 21-year-old facility will be legally able to legalize it and the one with a younger facility will not. This does not seem right to me because I think that the main intention and main point of this law is to establish order. Which means that things that can be legalized are legalized and the rest need to be broken. It seems unnecessary to set up an arbitrary age for an object here. If an object is located in a location that is also, say, suitable construction and can be legalized, then I see no problem not to legalise it, even if the facility is ten years old. However, if you also have buildings 30 to 40 years old, where it is totally inappropriate to have objects standing, it is clear that these objects should be demolished. Here, in addition to this aspect of age, I would like you to consider again whether it is wise to put it at this age, and perhaps further reason where the key point is that it should be 20 years or what led you to do so. The last thing that happened to me in this debate is how an inspection works on a case-by-case basis. You have black constructions in Slovenia, now Mr Kuzmić, who was not the owner of the building, has collapsed, and the building still stands on the coast of Türk. These are the differences that exist in this country, and these people are extremely disturbed. It will also be necessary to establish order in this area, because otherwise people will always feel that large fish who know someone can always come out of the fishing net in some way, while small fish are condemned to being inspected to the point and the branches strictly follow decisions. This is a purely basic point of justice, which will also need to be improved by the work of inspection if we want people to believe and trust more in this country, which will soon celebrate its birthday.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u79	Mr Simon Zajc has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a government law that we are considering today was, in fact, a long time in public debate, and in all that time, the whole professional and other public has responded in a mass way, and the response has been great. Even today, we are receiving additional proposals, new proposals from different stakeholders, from the municipalities forward. Of course, everyone sees possible improvements in the law through his own eyes. I believe that the law is yet to be improved and that this will happen in the proceedings of the National Assembly. What is it that I think is very good news? Firstly, it is definitely the fact that two processes are being merged; that is to say, the construction and environmental permit process, because why would we duplicate certain procedures if this is not necessary. In the eyes of the investor, this investor deals with one country, so it is right and I think it makes sense, and I very much welcome this change that it will continue to be one procedure. So one investor, one state, one procedure for one permit. This authorisation will also be issued on the basis of more concise documentation and, consequently, this will be formally less difficult. I like that the demolition will no longer require a building permit, but only a notification will be required. It is also good to simplify the procedures for obtaining a user authorisation. But when we look at Slovenia from the outside, and Slovenia, as regards the various levels of competitiveness and the resulting attractiveness of Slovenia to investors, which we know is the result of having new jobs, our standard improves. This is important for us to have all the procedures for building information. With this law, I welcome it, the legal basis is given. I think we're planning a realisation by 2021 as well. Some doubt this, but I hope this year is well thoughtfully set. I wish, of course, that this would be possible as soon as possible because it is important both for speed and for price efficiency. But whenever we change a law, when we simplify an area, in order to be faster, cheaper, more attractive, we also need to be careful that things do not get out of hand. So we have some control that doesn't abuse what we're simplifying. It is therefore very good for me to increase the responsibility and role of all stakeholders, both those making investments and building inspections and all other competent inspections. In addition, the law has a whole lot of other innovations, from this legalisation, which has already been mentioned, these non-problemistic objects to re-qualification of consensus in opinions, all with a view, of course, to building in Slovenia as predictable as possible, for investors, that this will be easier to afford, and at the same time to control it better. As a result of these improvements, I definitely support the law in the first reading, and I am sure that through the process of proposing it will improve both us Members and others, because it is important for us, for Slovenia, to improve this area of construction as well. That's what this marriage does, and I think it's very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u81	Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. First, it would be defined up to individual indications, namely the integration of environmental consent and the building permit. In fact, in the law itself, it was not solely and solely the objective of integration to remove administrative barriers. We are integrating this process because of the European Commission's demands, because this is also one of the solutions that the European Commission has somehow identified to our country. Most European countries also have arrangements so that the environmental consent process and the procedure for issuing the building permit are integrated, which means that our regulation in this context is also comparable in Europe. In particular, I would point out that, in this case, environmental standards are not lower. The requirements set out in our existing and also European legislation relating to the environment are exactly the same. The integration of the procedure simply means that the issue of environmental consent is not a standalone process, but all these requirements are applied within the building permit process. Then it's about legalization. In fact, it was said that it would somehow be better to adopt a special law for legalisation procedures, given that this is large. The profession has just somehow found that a special law is not a suitable solution, but it must be resolved systematically in a system law, which is a building law. This is said to be dealt with systematically in this law. Also for 20 years, this is actually some sort of limitation period, after which an object, if we haven't been able to get it out of the world in one way or another, means that an object in the environment isn't so disruptive that it can't be there, and the principle of equality is that it defines a single period of 20 years, which means that we are all equal after 20 years and this date is not fixed. This date is sliding. So, every time we look at it 20 years ago, it means that if an object in some environment has been standing for 20 years, it means that it can be legalized on milder terms. However, the purpose of such an inspection is to determine which facility does not belong during this period of production and to process the whole matter. If there is something, but we have not been able to process or remove it, it means that it is not as much a distraction to the environment as it is. Maybe even for the part of the inspection. Inspections shall operate on the basis of the legislation in force and according to the priorities they have adopted. The destruction of the facility in the TNP was due to the fact that illegal facilities within the TNP are actually on the top of the priority. It is said that they are one of the priorities on which inspections also proceed. There's also an answer about municipal roads. The categorisation of municipal roads itself cannot, of course, be subject to regulation in the construction law. Road categorisation is the subject of the Roads Act and these things will have to be systematically solved there, so that essentially the construction law is not suitable to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u83	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar and Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much, President. I think, given the black construction and all the buildings that are built in non-compliance with the regulations, the first task is to legalise these objects in some way. For two reasons: For the first time, municipalities, or those that have not yet paid a municipal contribution, pay a municipal contribution compared to those who have legally built, and for the purpose of building a municipal infrastructure that is undernourished. Secondly, to get the right records as soon as possible for the accounting of the NUSZ, although this is a matter of municipalities – but it is very difficult to get the right records – and also for the new European law that we should adopt, it is a property tax. This mode of legalization, as provided for by this law, is a fine excuse – when an object is over 20 years old, that if we have failed to legalise it or place it somewhere, we must ask ourselves whether we have tried or not to do so. We will follow some procedure – and this is a sliding law. I'd say one joke, and I won't, because I don't have much time on account of that. Most of them will not be persecuted, because this will not be possible with the number of inspectors they are now, or because of this law they will have much more work to do. A lot of people won't be persecuted, and he'll be waiting for the old facility to be 20 years old, and that's not good for us. In the meantime, we will have to accept the property tax. I think we should put up some hands. Until then – yes, from then on – no, but you will pay so much more, the procedure will be different. We'd do the same if we had a separate marriage, but we'd set a deadline. I'm just afraid that if we regulate this in a short period of time, there will be a stalemate in the legal unit with this work and even the performers will not be so many. In the neighbouring country, new companies, Legalisation, d. o. o. or something that they were doing to speed up. But with us, I think there's much less of these. If we want to make arrangements so that we can make order, but if we do something to get under the rug, then we can make it quick. About the roads. Yes, but as much as I am this law, which will come next month on the agenda, this law has not made a significant success or step forward. Because that's probably why we went in this order. Because if we went, we'd be "warning" on the first, the main law, then it would be even harder to get it under the roof. We have done nothing to ensure that foreigners or our investors, at appropriate prices as they do abroad, reach a communally equipped building site. We didn't do anything. They would only do abroad by buying the municipality land before going to change destination, at the price of actual use with some supplement and then municipally cheaper regulations based on regulations and then getting municipally equipped building land at some normal price. [[…]] They go even further because they are aware of what an investor means — new jobs, investment in it — will make it possible, I don't know, credit or bank guarantee to build a facility and so on. With us, we resisted, as if we didn't need it, we're making money, there's money growing in ATMs, and so on. We don't work this order, and I think we're gonna have a lot of work to do with the next marriage. There are certain simplifications, but they do not solve them, so that they can save or catch up with those countries that have had it for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u85	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and the mags. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that this new law should actually shorten and improve procedures; in short, both administrative steps and others, so that the law itself is more user-friendly and therefore cheap for all investors who need this documentation. The comments are very good; of course, the comments are very large; the comments have also been made by the administrative units, which clearly indicate how serious the problems they have with all the sub-legislative acts that follow all these statutory laws, and what an obstacle this is to their work. That's why usually, as we like to say, the third official, yes, look at that line, and that's not going to work. Lawmakers need to – even when a new law is passed, amendments or amendment should also be made or in fact deleted from certain sub-legislative acts. So far, I would say, previous governments have not served as much as they should. That's why these submarital acts are so much burden at every turn. They follow every law without monitoring it, hindering the implementation of the law! That's what the administrative units are alerting us to. This should, in fact, be an integral part and it should be considered that there should be a special, I don't know, administrative procedure at the time of adoption of the new law, to add review and amendment of all the sub-legislative acts to which or the previous law, which we are repealing or modifying, is necessary. My question is, how many sub-laws are we going to end because we are actually abolishing the Construction Act? This is a vital question for me, how many of these submarital acts will we advise or abolish. I believe no one's checked this before today. And that's the point. If we want to simplify things and so on. I am very pleased that in one process, this is said to give us environmental consent or permission in obtaining a building permit in this process. But, look, we know the excuses that have been on this side, that certain experts are so few that we have to wait for this consent even after a year and a half. Whether now the duration of the acquisition of the building permit will be linked to this and we will say, yes, yes, you know, there is no environmental agreement yet, but we will wait another year for that expert, who is, I don't know, a special flood, to make this environmental consensus available. Whether or not the deadlines for obtaining environmental consent will be reduced. That's my key question. And we like to compare ourselves very much with other countries. In Austria, you get a building permit in eight days. You know what eight days is?Oh, my God! In what time do you get environmental consent in the Republic of Slovenia? What's the average? What is the time average for me to gain environmental consensus? We can be satisfied, I'm talking about the average for about a year. One year is the average for you to get environmental consent, I'm talking about the average. You get one sooner, you get one later. This is an integral part of this new law. It's nice here. Yeah, we'll do our best, we'll put it together. But in cases of practice, that's not the case. I will be very happy if the environmental consensus is now issued in 8 days so that we can obtain a building permit in 8 days. It is incomprehensible to me that, for example, I compare the building permit issued 15 years ago or 10 years ago, the building permit was issued on two sides; today, it has a simple unit permit on an average of 15-16 pages, because even the technical report from the technical or introductory map has been copied. I don't know why this duplication. I don't know if these officials have written exercises in administrative units. Why do they transfer the technical report from the technical documentation to the building permit? I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't understand why this duplication of these contents is then in the building permit. I don't understand. It may be indicated whether the conditions are met or not; not that the technical characteristics of the technical description or project documentation are copied into a building permit. This is completely illogical to me as a constructionist. If I need this information, I'll look at it in the project myself, not read it again. After the building permit has been issued, no one will take any further action. The building permit is only the final document that opens the door forward so that things can be carried out. This is the technical documentation, the one the operator takes into his own hands and after which it is carried out. However, when it is a technical review, only the hooks are made if I say at home, if all those requirements are met, which have been made by all the co-legislators. That's all. So much for these procedures. Of course, I repeat again, judging by the amendment of all sub-laws. Get on with it, that's a lot, ballast is 70%, let's give it some advice. It's a key obstacle. Legalization of facilities. In the past, we have done a lot of legalizing, legalizing illegal construction. And we've set up a deadline for applications to be recorded, to enter them into spatial, municipal plans to be visible, to be recorded. Then we have some hands to pay certain fees and so on. The whole pile had already taken some steps that had been taken with a changeling step and had never been taken to the end, never. And this bar – the legalization of old objects has been on us for 20, 30 and more years. And also with this new proposal, this is now a very interesting matter. This is where we have now established a daring 20 years. That we can build an illegal facility today, we hope that no one will report us, and we legalize it in 20 years. I now associate this proposal with your proposal. Earlier with an explanation, since these are the tasks of inspections and others and neighbours, and if this facility is not disturbed, we can legalize it normally after 20 years. I don't know if it's the right way now or if it's an incentive for all those who take these paths legally. This is not an acceptable proposal for me. It's a cover-up. I can only if no one gets you to build this illegally. This is now an incentive to an illegal procedure and we are doing so with a new law, with a new proposal. This is not the solution for legalizing the facility. Also with regard to the current illegal facilities, I am absolutely not of the opinion that everything needs to be broken. I think there are two thirds that are good and may have been forced to do so because of any obstacles; but of course there are some that need to be broken. We are talking about existing ones, but we are now setting the law for what we have seen in advance and are already giving an incentive to an illegal approach here. This will immediately open up the problem at local level, municipalities. This proposal is unacceptable, this is an invitation to conceal certain buildings. And you can quickly find places and places where something can be built, and you hope that for 20 years no one will pull you out and report you to an inspection. I think that these things, these segments that you've highlighted today, need to be seriously considered. Above all, once again, not only in this legislation, I think that it is in the rules of procedure for the adoption of all laws that we should also introduce a permanent mandatory section – Check the sub-legislative acts if the old law is to be amended or repealed. In order for this to be a business step that this review of these obstacles by means of these sub-legislative acts should necessarily be introduced in the adoption or amendment of any new law which relates to a given subject. This would be absolutely necessary, and we would not have seen the number of these acts under the law growing as we do today. Because it's the under-laws that are operationally the most and most used. And we are talking a lot about how we will make the new law easier and shorter; we are forgetting all the sub-legislative acts that are operational, which are very burdensome and difficult and delay all these procedures and operational steps; and let us forget that. Take this seriously and this will be introduced as a permanent task and an integral part of the business step in the adoption of the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u87	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get ready, mags. Dušan Verbič and Mr Bojan Podkoršek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! If we really want to improve the procedure for obtaining the building permit as soon as possible and also for putting it effectively into space, it is necessary to cut down significantly deeper than this law did. Personally, I still consider that one of the best documents we have adopted in the National Assembly is the Resolution on the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia, which has guided all planners in the space, how settlements will develop, how the infrastructure that connects these settlements will eventually develop, how the country also links itself to international infrastructure, and where then those areas that need to be defined to a greater extent as industrial and more demanding industries. All of this has somehow been eliminated if I can use this term, at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and at the moment of being given, again, too large a commitment to Nature 2000. And given that in Slovenia we have 34% of the area in Natura 2000, if we add the best agricultural land and what is already built, and what is difficult to devote at all to the building, we find that these investment opportunities are very few for building in Slovenia. Somehow I would have appealed for a very demanding process to be made, but, however, a review of the entire hierarchy of decision-making on how Natura 2000 has been announced in Slovenia. The Nature Conservation Act has passed this on to the government. By regulation of the Government, by means of a sub-legislative act, such restrictions, in my view, cannot be accepted and are contrary to the legal order in the Republic of Slovenia. And once we clear that up, we're going to get a number of areas that aren't necessarily needed to be included in Natura 2000. At that time, we can also talk very actively about how we will adopt spatial acts, where we will also place all these infrastructures, residential, school and industrial facilities. We have become very self-limited, and that is why we have been building on the best agricultural land in recent times. Why the best farm? Because it's a matter of internal debate or, if you want, measuring power. Whoever's stronger in the country is going to decide where they're going to build. However, when it comes to Natura 2000, you are already running into the European Commission, international organisations, and this process is practically very difficult, or not to say that it is already doomed to failure in advance. But what country is the one that even allows itself to reach out to the best agricultural land? He who wisely plans his own development certainly does not, for without food there is no future; and this is something we must certainly have before our eyes. This is the broader view that we certainly lack if we are to talk about wanting to have an effective system. In this law, however, I kind of welcome that we are returning, in my opinion, to the period when we first issued, say, a location permit; and on the basis of a location permit, you can then obtain a building permit. The law, however, refers to prejudgment as a binding decision and a condition in the procedure for issuing a building permit. That, I understand, is some kind of location permit. If I don't understand enough, I would also ask for an explanation, because I think that the procedure that we've defined, that you first got a location permit and then a construction permit, was the most friendly to the investor, because you already got all the necessary information from all the co-conspirators, all the inspection services. In fact, you knew when you ordered the project, what was ahead of you, and of course the designer knew what he had to design. Today it's distorted because it's kind of a unified process and you don't know exactly when you're going to get one consent, another consent, they're complemented, they're changing. It takes a very long time for you to come up with a project on which a building permit can be issued. An added thought is to get closer to the process that has been substantially cleared. However, as regards opinions and inspection services relating to spatial acts again, if we have spatial acts well prepared, well received, then you must have virtually all the consent of the competent services, either for infrastructure or for other environmental conditions, at the stage of the production of the spatial act, even an implementing act. The investor, when deciding to build on a plot, in a certain space, no longer needs these additional consents, as this is already an integral part of the accepted spatial implementing act. If this is not the case, of course, twice, three times, we meet four times needlessly with one and the same services that must be involved in this process; and it is very difficult for you to get a permit in the short term. But what the law provides for right now, in this process of obtaining consent, I am concerned. You plan to rename or reclassify a large part of the consensus. The opinion is non-binding and I fear that these opinions will then serve as a basis for the construction of buildings which, once built, will cause very serious problems around them. As a result, for the investor, very serious problems due to the increased resistance of the local population, whether civil organisations or all those involved in these proceedings. This simplification from consensus to opinion, I estimate, is very dangerous or will need to be cleaned as best we can to really know when that moment will come, so that we can give our opinion instead of our consent. With regard to other matters, I can see that the law gives the congregations much greater authority than the congregation has so far. As an institution that adopts a spatial act, this law will also allow it to interpret this spatial act, which is appropriate and good if you have accepted something. Just like the National Assembly; if you accept the law, you are the one who interprets it. A similar spatial act; if it is adopted by the congregation, it is also appropriate to interpret it. I fear, however, that we do not have a fully cleared procedure, as we once did when we had a congregation of congregations where there was an entire procedure in the congregations where the administrative units were established today. From having adopted a spatial act to being able to interpret this act. And also to lead the procedure for issuing a building permit, which, once again, is this advantage of the location permit that I mentioned earlier. At that time, the referee who led this procedure convened exactly all inspection services, all co-legislators who went to the investor on the ground, to the plot where he wanted to build, and there they wrote down on the record whether this wish of the investor was realistic in terms of the content of the spatial act or not, and what he had to do to be able to build there. This process is not as clean as it used to be, because we still have an administrative unit that will issue a building permit. Otherwise, the municipality will explain the spatial act. We have inspection services at the local and state level. And this fragmentation of the whole system is the next challenge that should have been brought to the level that it once was – that municipalities where the administrative units are established are given even more powers and that they are actually the holders of the whole process of issuing the building permit and also of the design and organisation of all the inspection services at the state level that we have today and those at the local level. In view of the serious warnings given by the local inspection services, I would also like to appeal that further consideration be given to whether it is wise to transfer control of facilities for which no building permit is required to the local level. I don't think there's any record of this law, either, because there's no licensing, when such an object starts building what's going on in space. And since this is the current jurisdiction of the state inspection, it seems to me that it is only a transfer of responsibility from one state inspection service to a local level. In fact, this local level does not have a sufficiently clean mechanism to monitor this process successfully. We have also been particularly alerted to the problem of joint inspection services established in several municipalities, as well as to the problem of financing these inspection services, because it is also intended to reduce the level of co-financing of the common services in the future, which means that there will be additional interests, if I may say so, in the municipalities to weaken this control, but not to strengthen it, because there will be no appropriate mechanism to encourage municipalities to organise joint inspection services. This detail also needs to be clarified very precisely and clear answers before the final decision are given as to how this process will proceed, how it will be financed by the joint inspection services and how the municipalities will also assume this additional obligation, whether it will therefore be necessary to cut back into the appropriate consumption or not. Also on this basis, I think it is time that the National Assembly can no longer interfere with the law on the implementation of budgets, with the proper consumption of the municipality, but it must be regulated in the Law on the Financing of Communities; and only some exceptional circumstances can allow for derogations from this. So much for the construction phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u89	Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. It's about making a decision. Prejudice has some elements of a location permit, but this is not a location permit when compared with an old location permit under the previous legislation. In the case of a preliminary decision, ownership does not have to be demonstrated as required by the local authorisation. The investor may ask for a whole set of questions that he is interested in regarding the issue of the building permit, or only one of the questions that he is interested in. It's not limited to the whole story. And it can also get more people for the same plot, because the building permit is then obtained only by the investor who will later exhibit ownership of the plot on which he will build. Then it's about opinions. Of course, opinions are binding because they have a basis in marriage. They are non-binding only if they go beyond the framework laid down by the law that the holder of the regulation of the premises has more requirements than the law prescribes, which was not possible now because the consent was a separate decision and had to be taken or not taken. If it was negative, it was negative. It is also possible to convene a coordination meeting and to identify and coordinate matters if they are not coordinated between individual space regulators. This is the meaning of the opinion, so it is also done within the procedure. And in case of silence of the space manager. Then, as regards the inspection procedures, the issue of construction permits. If you estimate that municipalities could issue a building permit, then immediately in the next part, that they are not able to carry out inspection procedures only in a small part concerning simple facilities, then one is in conflict with another. The simple facilities are that part of spatial planning of municipalities where every municipality has a different definition, which simple facilities can be installed in the area of this local community. And the municipalities are over 200, the state inspectors are only 70. Who, if not municipal inspectors, has a significantly better overview of which simple facilities in a certain area of the municipality are built and are simple and at the same time illegal, since the municipality itself prescribes the conditions for which simple facilities can be placed in its space. And it's about funding. Even now, municipal inspectors are being financed from fines and fines are being provided here, as well as degradations for those lands where this simple illegal facility will be built, which means that the inspector will be financed in the same way as before. As far as it is known, most Slovenian municipalities already have common Medo-Chinese inspection services. From this point of view, I do not see any difficulty in organising this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u91	Mr. Janko Weber has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you. I was misunderstood in the part where you understood that I am not assessing that the municipalities are not prepared to accept additional obligations in the control of buildings for which no building permit is required; however, how will they only assume obligations for the entire building permit process. My aim was to point out that we must first train the congregations, prepare for this procedure, and also to issue a building permit.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u93	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Prepare Mr Bojan Podkrodšek and Mr Ivan Prelog.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Once again a nice greeting to the representatives of the executive branch of power! In view of the debate so far, I would like to continue with this red thread of the predecessor and the predecessor just before, two, three back. The fact is that we are now going around in a circle, because this law that we have before us, in contrast to the way we discuss it, I will first point out what I think is written in this law, at least for me personally, is difficult to accept. I hope that we will correct this further with appropriate correction. First, which I simply disagree with, is a municipal contribution. The fact is that the municipal contribution must be paid before the building permit is issued. This is mainly due to the fact that this possibility is very much on the way to pay the municipal contribution later in order for the investor to avoid this payment. We know forced settlement, we know the bankruptcy of legal persons, but we also know personal bankruptcy. Since these are the congregation’s incomes, I do not think we should talk in this direction at all. As far as I am aware, the position of the Association of Congregations in this matter is also very clear. The second issue is the so-called usable permit. We know that the components of the usable authorisation are technical checks. What is interesting is that there have been even a few fires in the last period on buildings that have been practically opened. He's sending us on his way here. Something just doesn't play a role. And third, so-called reduced procedures. I am now referring to the debate of colleagues who have just discussed. We must not forget that in 1994 in Slovenia decided to set up administrative units for environmental and spatial areas. These are 58 and the fact is that administrative procedures for issuing a building permit are carried out at the first stage exclusively through these administrative units. To the local communities, the municipalities remained the so-called spatial part. Why am I bringing this up? Because I believe that many of us, but I myself have been present several times, where the client, the investor in particular for individual or less demanding construction today, after so many years, still says: “I have made an application to issue a building permit to the municipality.” Interesting. After so many years, the powers of the administrative unit as a public administration have still not been so appropriate in this area. And if we look at the material given by the proposer, this is a comparison with Austria. It's interesting that in Austria, a colleague said well, you get a building permit in eight days, it's true. You get one week for a simple house. But it is true that he did not say that it is not so bad in Slovenia, at least this part; because on average you get on average for individual construction in about 20 days. In some administrative units, maybe a little earlier, some longer. I'm speaking officially statistical information that can be obtained at the M.I.U. Still, he's a three-timer. Special areas are more demanding, however, business facilities. What the colleague said, which are linked to various permits, is then really worth admitting that a lot of people in Slovenia should already have a headache. We speak environmental consensus, we speak water, we speak culturally for the protection of cultural heritage. In recent times, however, the area of anti-group consensus is also very interesting. I'm sure you'll need a major shift here. So much for the introduction, as far as the law is concerned, because I believe that there must be, or is expected to be, a change in these areas at a later stage. However, I will allow myself some comments because we have a first debate, because investors' criticism of the existing building law is justified. It is entirely justified, since such procedures are not always the fault of an official, here we need to be very objective. A colleague who had discussed the matter before also said in a way that we should sometimes use a so-called healthy farmer's mind in these procedures. There is a lot to say out loud here, unfortunately, this simply cannot be allowed at all. In the case of procedures carried out in public administrations, one fundamental and only guide, among others, is the principle of legality. What laws and regulations are like, the government has to respect that. However, I agree that at times they go very contrary to the common sense of the farmer. However, it is unacceptable to expect or ask the officials to do so voluntarily. What is the biggest criticism of the current building law, which in some ways, I agree, is improving with the proposal we have? But the areas that stand out the most and are painful are the following. The first area is what I mentioned in the previous law. The fact is that the responsibility of designers and contractors needs to be increased. When we start talking about this – the debater in front of me talked about inspections and then the secretary of state – we don't need an army of inspectors; however many inspectors there would be, there would never be enough. However, the fact is that all those involved in the design and implementation phases must respect the spatial OPPN, the OPPN and certain technical standards that apply to the construction itself. No inspector shall prevent this and shall not interfere with all irregularities of interference with premises or construction if the persons I have mentioned are not consistent in carrying out their activities. The following area; it is certainly necessary to reduce all types of documentation. What needs to be mentioned is where the necessary documentation could be reduced; surely it is necessary to reduce the description of the planned construction, as we have in simple constructions, which is only on the basis of a sketch that can be slightly expanded as the sketch itself. It is a fact, floris, a review of construction plots and connections to municipal waters; all these matters can be relatively simplified. For the current way that you must obtain all consent in the preceding phase for municipal contributions is normal, but this prolongs the procedures. However, this is simply not the responsibility of the administrative authorities if we have such a provision. The next is certainly how to go into the system of simplifying the procedures for issuing building permits to get close to what the colleague said we have in individual constructions about 20-25 days, but to get close to the cases of the northern neighbour — 8, 9 days. The fact is, here is the biggest problem, even in more complex constructions, a party in the process. And it is perfectly understandable that the law should follow that as a rule the party is an investor; not that we have plenty of any entities, persons who appear, stakeholders and the like involved. It must be acknowledged that, in some ways, laws or regulations allow and allow for this. As a rule, this is an abuse that goes exclusively to the detriment of an investor. For the administrative authority, it must also be in accordance with the ZUP and the applicable legislation as it is. For this reason, it is certain that the approach in this bill is also a correction to restrict, restrict or define who is really the primary party in the process. Further, as has already been mentioned in the debate by several debaters – the lifting or even necessity of such agreements and their abundance. He also mentioned that a so-called unified approach is to be welcomed, which is also right. Why should a client at various addresses be the one who should care as before?Oh, my God! However, by this legal definition or by means of a sub-legislative act, it should be essential to cut down on why the competent national authorities are already exceeding the existing legal provisions on the issue of different consents. We must not forget that the Administrative Procedure Act as the primary law or procedural law for such procedures clearly sets a 60-day period within which the State authority must issue a decision or consent. Really, then, one wonders why such an option is used by investors in one way or another, by legal means they do not take advantage of the country again; although we know that this is sometimes very painful. But we already have a 60-day arm that doesn't hold. And if, as far as the provisions laid down in this law are concerned, we are going to intervene substantially and in one way or another force the co-conspirators to respect their hands, then I think we are on a very good path. As I mentioned earlier, the applicable licences are also a special chapter in this provision of the law. I'm in a strong position that we just don't need them. It is beautifully written, except in those cases where objects of special national importance or objects of such a nature of difficulty are needed. However, this is not the case in the case of thousands of building permits issued, all in kind, as usual today or in past periods. What is absolutely healthy and meaningful in this law is that designers, especially the construction supervisor, must assume all such responsibility after completion of the construction and by making a statement to the administrative authority before issuing the building permit that the building is in conformity with all technical standards. If that's not the case, why do we even need a supervisor?Oh, my God! What, then, is his role; that he is merely on a construction site and writes a construction diary?Oh, my God! This is also necessary, but the primary task of the construction supervisor is to properly implement technical standards in construction. This is one of the key moments, because in the final issue of the building permit, even in more demanding buildings, or perhaps in a slightly less complex facility, this clock is, today, extremely badly opposite the investor. I would therefore ask the proposer to pay particular attention to this and to make some progress in the procedures in question, because I do not think that we need a technical review commission. Or we don't need the function and the full role of supervisor in the construction site itself. Finally, increase inspection and penalties. I may be a little overly critical here, but we have a debate, which is why it's right. According to my information, I won't miss much, we have about 60-70 construction inspectors in the Republic of Slovenia. My question to the billmaker is whether you have an analysis of how many demolitions of black buildings have already been carried out or concluded in the process. For the number of inspectors in themselves means nothing if there is no effect or disruption. Because an improper intervention into space is simply not enough and must be sanctioned. Here I also refer to a colleague who mentioned the case earlier, but we all know how it is falling in Bohinj; throughout Slovenia there are objects on water resources, and facilities in special protected areas, not only in environmental and spatial areas, but nothing happens. I believe that there are administrative procedures, inspection procedures, perhaps administrative disputes. I myself believe that we are interested in what is really going on in these matters, particularly in the direction of disruption. In this case, I strongly agree with the previous debater, who said: "It is stimulated to intervene in the space because it is not punished." On the other hand, after a good 20 years of legal black construction, I'm going to ask myself if I'm going to pay for a municipal contribution or usurpation or something like that. These are things that simply need to be followed in amending this law further. So much for now. I hope that this law, which is needed in the right direction, with certain additions, will give particular emphasis to the municipal contribution, because this needs to be regulated and going in the direction of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u95	Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I'd focus on the municipal contribution. We have foreseen a public contribution during the construction start-up phase precisely because it is not necessary that the project documentation for the construction and project documentation is then, according to PZI, a project for construction, exactly the same. If permissible derogations are allowed, the municipal contribution will also have to be assessed accordingly. That's one of the reasons. The second reason is that if construction is not done at all, community contributions will not have to be returned because construction has not started; what has happened now. Therefore, this municipal contribution is linked to the beginning of the construction. Nevertheless, the congregation receives it before anyone starts building. The administrative unit is the one who checks that the municipal contribution to the municipality has been paid because without the payment of the municipal contribution it is not allowed to build. The Inspector shall check this matter and sanction it if it happens. Then it's about responsibility. I think it is with this law that we increase the responsibility of all designers and architects, because things are also linked to their statements that everything is in accordance with the rules in force. It's a condition. At the same time, we are adding to both chambers the possibility of professional supervision of their members. This has not been arranged so far, so this responsibility has increased. Even in the case of usable permits, only for those most demanding procedures will it be necessary to appoint a technical commission and carry out a technical review procedure. The other procedures shall be made public and, on the basis of the declaration, shall also be issued with a valid permit. With regard to the demolitions, I must admit that, according to the data we had at the time we were preparing this law, there were a thousand 450 enforceable cases in the Inspectors. There were 180 of them that the investors themselves removed; 373 were legalized; only 15 of them were removed after the executive inspection procedure. It is true, however, that this also depends on the resources the ILO receives to remove matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u97	Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor. Prepare Mr Ivan Prelog and Mrs Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u98	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we are talking today about the construction law, which is in the first stage, let me say that in principle I agree with my colleague Verbic, who mentioned earlier that an official who issues a building permit would be very difficult to decide on a farm of logic or a healthy farmer's mind. However, it is likely that it is possible for all of us, the proposer and all Members of the National Assembly to adopt this important building law to use a healthy farmer of logic or intelligence. Two priors, I've heard of it before, and that's why in neighbouring Austria you get a building permit in a bad two weeks or a good week. I'm not going to argue that it's possible to go to Austria now, do a photocopy, and transfer it to Slovenia. But I think it would be good if at least a little closer to their legislation in this area. In particular, I have here in mind the timeline, and I also have in mind the unnecessary documentation that our citizens who apply for this building permit need. I think these maps could be a lot thinner than they are now. This important legislation has changed many times in the past. I am confident that I have met many who have built houses and needed building permits; especially those who have built more demanding buildings. These procedures have sometimes been very long for them, painful, and most of the time it has happened that no one has even reached the goal. Speaking of building legislation, it is also in the past, and I do not think that this bill also improves the scope of requirements and additions when an official gives to a designer or architect. [[…]] It would be necessary for all requirements or supplements to be made at one stage in order not to be carried out monthly or weekly. Because as a result, when someone is in a bad mood at the end, the official asks why the procedure was so long; his answer is that there was a supplement. I think it would be right for an official to have the opportunity to submit an application and additions at one stage; but not to drag on in several stages and thereby delay the issuance of a building permit. Most of the time, municipalities have poor spatial planning and accommodation in local communities. This is also one of the consequences of a request for extradition with all the consents needed to issue a building permit. Recently, the government has adopted a law for an investment that is to come to Slovenia. I think we should also strategically plan the map of Slovenia, determine 10 locations in Slovenia. I do not think it is necessary for any such investment, especially when a foreigner comes to adopt a special law as an investor; our citizens, who have been creating a business in Slovenia for decades now, are prevented from doing so. In particular, I would appeal, and I think that there is still much work to be done between the first and second stages of the proposal. That is also what we heard today in the debate. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the phase of this pile of documentation that is required by the applicant for a building permit. This construction law is of paramount importance. This is what we or our citizens and citizens face on the agenda, and past experience shows and knocks on the door of the proposer, who has prepared this proposal for much more work to be done. Let me finish with what I said in the beginning that we need to get some healthy farmers in. This is an opportunity for us when we accept this; not then to expect those who are supposed to implement this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u99	Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor. Prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The main solutions of the Proposal for a Construction Law introduce a number of important innovations and allow me to point them out in 19 points: 1. Expansion of the law to a greater extent of the facilities, including other construction operations and facilities, irrespective of their connection to the soil. 2. Facilitated conditions for certain types of construction and works, namely the waiver of the obligation to obtain a building permit for the removal of buildings, (all necessary is the registration of the start of construction), the suspension of the obligation to obtain a construction permit for temporary facilities intended for the events and during the season, the extension of the volume of maintenance works for which it is not compulsory to obtain a building permit for minor reconstructions. 3. Legalisation of non-binding information, advice and assistance obligations to the investor. 4. Option to obtain a decision binding in the subsequent procedure of issuing a building permit and allowing the investor greater investment and legal certainty. 5. Acquisition of a building permit on the basis of more concise and indirectly formally less demanding documentation. 6. Legalisation of the registration phase of the start of the construction with a view to monitoring, recording and more effective control over the implementation of the works. Seven. Legalisation of the possibility of a reduced procedure for issuing a building permit. 8. Legal basis for the informationisation of authorisation and e-commerce procedures. 9. Reinforce the role of municipalities in the authorisation process by reinventing the mandatory opinion of the municipality in the authorisation procedures. Ten. Determination of control over the execution of works for which construction permits do not need to be obtained as the original competences of the municipal inspection. 11. Integration of the procedure for issuing the building permit and environmental consent. 12. Legalisation of the inclusion of the public in an integrated environmental impact assessment process and decisions on the building permit. 13. Greater role and responsibility of participants, as well as of construction inspections and other competent inspections (decision based on declarations in authorisation procedures). 14. Simplification of the procedure for obtaining a user authorisation, this is without technical review, on the basis of statements. 15. Automatic recording of objects after issue of the usable permit. 16. Legalisation of non-problem non-problem construction works, such as those of a longer existence for 20 years or more and legalisation during a transitional period on the basis of the rules in force at the time of construction of the building. 17. Enable minor deviations from construction permit during construction. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Requalification of consensus in opinions and thus indirectly allowing for a balance between security and development interests in the authorisation process. 19. Determination of construction plots in the process of issuing building permits and recording them. I do not consider this bill to be ideal either, but I will also confirm it at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u101	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to stress that we must be the masters of our space ourselves; and not that someone comes and says, "Here I will build what has been happening to us lately." This is also why we in New Slovenia have been pointing out for a long time that we need to speed up the adoption of this construction law and also the law concerning the adoption of municipal spatial plans. Now I hear that the last law I mentioned does not bring much better solutions; which I will regret if so. Certainly this law brings some improvements, which we also support in Novi Slovenija. Our mayors also warned about regulating the payment of municipal contributions in the future. After all, you've given some excuses that I understand. However, since I have also been a mayor for some time, and I know how difficult it has been to set the right price or how difficult it is for investors to pay it, and in all ways they also want to avoid it or to make it as small as possible, I fear that the new regime will also contribute to raising problems, not to reducing problems. So please, if you reconsider at this point. We too are likely to make specific comments on the payment of the municipal contribution. As far as black construction is concerned. Yes, here I say we must all be equal before the law. Unfortunately, we know of cases that were media-encouraged when we hit some huts, while the villas of the famous Slovenians are still standing. We're not all the same before the law. Also, the arrangement that those who built black construction more than 20 years ago will be less punished than others does not make sense and sound sense to me. Things need to be cleaned, fines paid, things arranged, and black buildings should certainly not be allowed. But it is true that because too much time, municipal spatial plans have been adopted for many years, so many black constructions have taken place. And this is definitely part of the country's guilt.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u103	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Prepare Mr. Jože Tanko and Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Just five minutes ago, I got a text message from a friend who asked, "Is it worth waiting for an application for a building permit, or won't things get much better?" And I wrote to him that, more than reading the purposes, reasons and purposes of the law, I recommend that he wait; but when I read the articles of the law, I feel that in practice it will not change much. Why am I saying this? One thing first. This government is always talking about systemic legislation. We have before us a law on the construction of buildings, but we do not have a promised, already written and already approved law on the regulation of space. And I ask those present from the Ministry as well as the rest of us — Shall we first dig up a fundamental dig and make a foundation board, or should we build a roof first?Oh, my God! In my view, we should first, if not at the same time, adopt a more important law, which is this law on the construction of buildings, which is essentially an implementing law. And today we have heard a great deal about environmental matters, about spatial matters, about the municipal contribution that is not the issue of this law that is before us today. There's a matter of another marriage where there's a basis for this marriage. And why do I think this marriage is problematic? In 2007, I sat on some coalition coordination as spatial legislation changed, when we adopted and now the Law on Spatial Planning was in force. There were a lot of comments from such and different professions, local communities, but officials at the Ministry said there were no problems. It's a specific case. In the last coalition coordination before the law went into government procedure, the current Minister of Environment and Space asked the director of the Directorate that week whether he was convinced that after the adoption of that law all municipalities would have spatial plans, municipal spatial plans, within two years. Her answer was: With ease, respected minister. Easy. It was in 2007. What's the status? 1. Seven. In 2015, the existing UN has 149 municipalities. So much about these officials, and they are probably at least two thirds of the same ones that were in 2007 when they say – With ease it will be easier, easier, cheaper and easier. But practice overwhelms these beautiful words that hide in goals, purposes, and reasons. And that's what I'm afraid of in this marriage, especially as it is said, because at least together we should be accepting both marriages. Today there has been a lot of debate about the impact of construction, environmental and spatial legislation on all other matters, in particular economic matters, investment, agriculture, other infrastructures, sports, cultural and so on. But all we have today is an implementing act that speaks; we do not have a basic act. And I am very afraid that not only at the stage of the adoption of this law, then also that other law, will there be many more comments and you will say - her comment can no longer be taken into account, because the construction law already says so. Otherwise, my trifle was never the mayor, but I am the third councilman, and I know how things go around at least at local level, if I have not already been involved in projects of State importance; but all those who know, when we talk about opinions, consensus, so-called co-operators in individual matters, who know what a municipal spatial plan is, what a municipal detailed spatial plan is, what a community equipment programme dealing with PGD, PZI, PUP and everything else, we know that the theory in law and also the theory in sub-law acts carries enormously. In practice, however, stories vary. As my colleague Trček said earlier, for example, we can only face red situations before issuing a building permit. We have a young official who adheres to strict laws, regulations that he nearly doctored in this area, and the procedure for issuing a building permit is delayed not for 8 days, as my colleague Ljubo said earlier, but for 8 months. We also probably have one who says, "Well, it's not a building permit for me. The investor will already know what he wants." Perhaps the congregation plan allows, but the law also allows each one to interpret it in his own way, and the matter is fine. In short, a lot of problems. And if we know that we have different municipalities here, that sometimes from the administrative unit to the administrative unit they ask not only the chiefs of the administrative units, but the employees there when you bring them, for example, the OPPN and you say to them, "Will it be possible to do that here and there? And they say, "We don't know, we need to look again at laws, submarital acts, municipal decrees, and then we can give you an answer. And time is running out. And the construction time is increasing, even though we have good ambition in our goals, purposes and reasons, then practice easily overruns them. Then come the angry people to the mayors and the saints who say they are guilty because they only respect what legislation on construction, spatial and environmental work enables or does not allow them. In 2007, it was said that within two years, the marriage was easy to allow for all of the UN’s congregations. In 2017 we are on three quarters of this story. And that is why I do not believe that all those well-intentioned introductory words in this law will be implemented by practice. Moreover, I think that this law will have a lot of problems in practice, because I am looking at transitional and final provisions — even in recent times when we are dealing with debarcation. And there's quite a few of them here. The implementing rules referred to in this Article, this Article and this Article shall be issued within five months of the entry into force of this Article. And when we look at what the 69th, 75th, and other articles say in this case, it goes much more in detail than in these 122 articles, things that are then between a sweet theory and a cruel reality. Respectfully, there will be no opinion that everything in this marriage is only bad. There are some good things written about consensus as to how it unites, how certain consents go into opinion. The area of legalisation also needs to be regulated, although I do not believe or ask where you get these financial numbers. Not only those in the field of inspection, how much this will bring to the municipalities; especially in the area of legalisation when you talk about huge numbers. I think about 128 million. Wait a minute, that's right. Not much with the inspection work, but with the rest, just a second. [[…]] The positive financial implications, the increase in the revenue of all municipalities in 2018 – 128 million, in 2019 – 35 million, in 2020 – 35 million. They must have applauded the congregations and the Community, but they probably also laughed sourly because they said — How? We don't have inspectors, we don't have all the other things that we'd be able to sort out quickly in order to get the congregations here in the next few years, about 180 million euros. And more than that, these inspectors with whom we already have problems, not because some would not do well, but because they are too few, the congregations will carry this part of the inspection under this law. And you know how difficult it is, for example, when John of the congregation of Sevnica as an inspector walks through the congregation of Sevnica and sees what is right and what is wrong. And John comes to his colleague Jožet and how he should best write him a sentence because he may be missing some of the 60 pages of the building permit. And he says to him: "The law is such, you will pay, and I will not have any higher wages for it, but the state has pleased to take something away, and some of it will come from this congregation." Very hard. Even more so, because you are very precise in determining who this inspector will be able to be; and with all due respect, I do not believe that, apart from the human side, the inspectors will be able to control all the content that will be imposed on them, for the new legislation that is necessary, and then in the next five months they will probably be given a full set of regulations or regulations. I'd like to draw your attention to a few more things. You have probably all received a letter from the Community of Municipalities, which speaks very carefully about certain matters. Otherwise, we have heard today that it has been quite a while for this legislation to be harmonised. But respected, once again, there is a difference between officials in ministries, and something between those mayors and perhaps between heads of the environmental and spatial departments, or as they are called in the municipalities, who face every day in concrete terms all that the state imposes on them. When the state imposes on them, as has already been said, various shortcuts for which, before you become at least a young investor, you have no idea what the OPPN is, what I said before. We had just yesterday at a meeting of the municipal council a debate on a programme of municipal equipment for a seven-acre residential area, and we almost doctored from sewerage, Cti, Cpi, the width of roads; we almost doctored from the rules on road design and so on. But these are the matters of how municipal officials find themselves when there is an investor at their door and he wants as many answers as possible; unfortunately, the municipal official has many more questions that he probably refers to your ministry when he is interested in specific matters and is not interested in those beautiful sentences about how everything will be super nice. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect that these submarital acts will not, in the course of the Slovenian official bureaucracy of the past 25 years, make a solid product with huge errors. You will probably get some extensive material from the Legislative and Legal Service here, and probably some comments and suggestions from different engineering professions, local communities, and probably someone else; to make this law as enjoyable as possible. Then, within five months, we face a matter called enforcement. Maybe a few more things. Today there have been quite a few discussions about this decision. Otherwise, the matter is very well heard, but although it says that they already have it in Austria and Germany, that is, the countries by which we follow our example, because you know, even those good laws that we copy or copy from these countries, which are kind of like us, are born in Slovenian practice, mainly because of the Slovenian desire for overriding. The next thing, a legal building permit, was a debate today. I suggest that this time you listen to the congregations and all those who wrote to you to pay attention to what is final and what is legal building permit. Not only will we reject a one-bedroom project, but we may not reject the tougher, bigger cases that are happening to us. I will not talk about whether this law would not give Magna a case; or whether it was the desire of this law to follow the Magna case, but if you read the articles, if you read the consents and opinions, it is likely that in spite of this law, despite the Law on the regulation of space, different lex specialis in the field of investment will have to continue to take place if we want to give priority to anyone or to see it in the Slovenian environmental and spatial parts. Why do I miss the debate today, or the law – the debate today was quite something – about regulating space? Today, there has been quite a bit of a talk about Natura 2000, about the protection of the best agricultural land; but this implementing law does not affect those issues. I'm really sorry. The recommendation, not at the time of the July session, but above all in the summer, that under what cold climate officials at your ministry take a look at both laws in detail and see where the common points are, and where the questions are still open, not only in these preambles, but in certain articles you save by approaching what is ideal, as it was said, 8 days to issue a building permit in Austria. Or if you want the Magna case in the field of greater investment when it was promised that a municipal spatial plan and a building permit would be adopted within six months. To conclude, it's beautifully written in theory, unfortunately I'm too afraid of how this theory will then resolve in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u105	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. And then the government's representative comes to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Let me first conclude that we have had a very quick general debate. Since the request was made by the coalition, I expected that there would still be a little more serious debates. Obviously, however, the law is ideal and I do not know why you are putting up a general debate if you do not want to discuss these laws further. What you have seen in most of the debates is that this law should be dealt with under the law on regulating the space that should be dealt with in advance; for things must first be put in place. Most of the debaters also touched on the topics defined in the law on space regulation. The new law clearly excludes areas related to the regulation of architects and engineers, which can in some ways be welcomed. It also regulates permits for construction operations that are not objects, which is also in some ways positive, because in the past these matters have been played. I do not understand, however, that the obligation to obtain a building permit to remove objects is being abolished. If we do this in general, as foreseen in this novel, the problem is with more demanding objects that are falling apart. But I don't think every facility in an urban settlement can be broken without an exact laborate or permission. For ordinary objects, yes, but there should be a distinction here. I don't think completely abolishing this obligation is good. The power to control the construction of buildings not prescribed by a building permit has been discussed here by many discussers about the transfer to the municipal inspection services. There is also a problem, as the following articles, which speak of this inspection, also give obligations to those inspectors who must be in the field of construction or architecture. And whoever knows these municipal inspectors largely fails to meet these conditions; and this is an additional obligation that will be very difficult for local communities to carry out. Electronic construction business, we can agree here, but the PISO or this project will be in operation for a long time. You are also talking about the great assistance provided by the administrative authorities, which is expected to increase during the stage of the proceedings, so this is the assistance of the administrative authorities. I hope that this is a serious approach that you are taking, because we would already do a lot if we were to simplify the decision-making of all the administrative bodies, we are talking about administrative units, in certain cases. This gap in the implementation of current legislation is already a major problem and an obstacle. Secondly, if you do this to make sure that the administrative authority can only make a request for a supplement once and for all – since the ZUP does not clearly define it, we have repeatedly talked about this in the past – much will be done in this direction. On the other hand, it is indeed necessary to define that the drafter of a spatial act is the one who gives an exact opinion in certain border cases; not the administrative authority. We are talking about a congregation or a congregation planner. Because in these investments of building permits or in these processes there is a great deal of interpretation of the administrative authorities concerning individual UNOIs to a large extent very narrow, bureaucratic and without knowledge of the whole. It is often read only as a single article, not as a whole of the UN, and comes to a great deal of embarrassment and trouble. In the case of an ignorant party on the other hand, it may also be possible for a person not to pursue a procedure because he does not even know where to turn. I hope that this part will also be significantly better resolved. Prejudice; I think quite a few colleagues, including colleague Weber, have asked and questioned this. It is not known whether it is an administrative decision or whether it is a non-binding document. I don't think this thing is the most sophisticated and clean-up thing. Legalisation of objects, most of them touched, I think this is the right direction to try to arrange it in the most practical way, because there are many black constructions in fact, because it is within the walls. It was not in the process that she obtained all the permits because the OPs had been accepted for too long. I think we can peacefully say that at least 95% or even more of these black buildings can be legalised. It is clear, however, that it is not possible to legalise those facilities which are in a protected area or in an area where no spatial plan of any particular local community can cover this matter. In these cases, however, it is necessary to perform very strictly and to remove these things. I'm not quite sure that linking a building permit to an environmental consensus will simplify things. I'm afraid things are going to get more complicated, because to tie this matter up in the process, I don't know, from my experience, I'm pretty skeptical. You're talking about some unifying process, but it's easier, but I have a lot of reservations about it. I agree here with all my predecessors who say that this must be tied to the issue of a building permit. I think that with such a dictatorship as you are now putting into law, you are imposing on the inspectors and on all the other authorities a huge number of opinions in cases where this provision is being enforced. In the event that this is prior to the issue of a building permit, this is very precisely defined during the stage of the procedure. As soon as you let this go on application, as you say, the beginning of construction is elastic; that we are purely plastic. On the other hand, you are talking about the fact that preparatory work can start some other procedures first. You know that everyone has not reported the start of construction, especially in individual constructions until now no one has reported the start of construction. This gives only additional tasks to inspectors and other authorities who are simply not capable of doing so. Who will make sure that this is 8 days before what the law says; and there will be only complaints of complaints, this thing is uncontrollable. I hope you're aware of this and that we will continue to change that. In the case of pre-issue construction, this is an obligation, there is no need for any additional control; in the case of your diction, this is an open field to play indefinitely, that we are on the clear side, but we already know the practice so much. Obligation to obtain a usable permit for all facilities for which a building permit is to be obtained. In this case too, I think there would probably be a need for a distinction in terms of the complexity of the facilities. Individual facilities or some small objects that now require a new building permit, I don't know if it's necessary that they just need a usable permit. The usable permits have so far been linked mainly to the fact that facilities which are intended for a public function and where a larger number may appear, where there is some responsibility to obtain a useful permit; not for each facility. The transitional periods, which are in this law, and not only in this, but also in the engineering and architectural laws, are somewhat too long. What the colleague has warned, these sub-laws are also undefined and we ourselves know from practice, especially in this ministry, these sub-laws are largely the possibility of further short contact and it comes to the law that we eventually accept in the National Assembly, and we all find later that it has not fulfilled what we expected. At least one part of the sub-legislative acts and what you provide in the transitional provisions should already be clearly defined, because on this basis we will also decide whether the law solves or complicates matters even more. Leave it to an official to prescribe it is unacceptable. Remember some regulations that were then responded to in the National Assembly and had to be withdrawn; the same applies to these regulations on the basis of the individual articles laid down by law. You talk a lot about the need to establish some regional planning for some issues that are related to a wider level. We can agree here, but the ministry is the one that needs to complement and change something. Since there are many comments from the public concerned, professions, institutions, especially local communities, I believe that the debate on the committees will be constructive. However, I hope that this material will be added to the debate on the committees, at least in key matters. I expect from the Ministry and the coalition that it will be constructive in further procedures, and that it will also take into account the things proposed by the opposition and will make sense for them to be included in this legislation. Some good travelers, given that the coalition has today proposed this broader general debate, but there was no major debate, except for a few colleagues who were also quite critical of the law itself. I believe that this will be possible to correct and supplement on the committee and that the law will improve to such an extent that we too will have no problem with the fact that the law, which has nothing to do with politics, is not to be mistaken, is supported. Once again, what I said in the previous law; we can again write an ideal law if you do not establish a system of how the official work that does it, to train it and to educate it, as you wrote that you are trying to help people with procedures rather than to obstruct it, we can adopt an even more ideal law than we want, and the matter in practice will not work. As long as each administrative unit has different interpretations of individual articles of the law and will introduce different practices, and as long as the dispute between what the spatial act at local level foresees and what the administrative authority interprets in the procedure, the law will not solve the problems until then.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We are moving to the conclusion of the debate. Minister Irena Majcen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you. I apologize for my absence, but despite my absence, I'd still like to say something that he sometimes wants to see and sometimes he doesn't want to see. According to previous legislation, the municipal spatial plans of the congregations should have been adopted long ago, but they have not. I'm sure my colleagues have already told you. From 212 congregations, I think I do not sin much, if I say 150 municipal spatial plans adopted, a large majority of them are in some stage of acceptance. However, I think there are 8 municipalities, where no decision has been taken on the initiation of the procedure for the adoption of the municipal spatial plan. In recent days, I believe that information has also come to you regarding the Court of Auditors’ review of the work of our professional colleagues and what the work of the municipalities is when it comes to the adoption of municipal spatial plans. However, it is essential to me, and I would like to tell you this, until the procedures for issuing building permits are subject to the adopted municipal act. It is now said that some administrative units explain things differently than others, because municipal spatial acts are not adopted on the same basis. [[advertising from the hall]] Please, can I tell you? Thank you. So the acts that were adopted more than 20, 25 years ago are basically something completely different, such as modern municipal spatial plans or, in some cases, municipal detailed spatial plans. All the consents and procedures involved in issuing the building permit will also be different, despite the adoption of the new law. Will the municipal spatial plan be adopted, which has already been assessed, where all the consent procedures have already been adopted, the opinions of the security arrangements have been included in the spatial act and, of course, in the case that the act is 20, 25, 30 years ago, where all these procedures are not available and must now be checked for the issue of a building permit. I don't think it's fair for me to tell you how we're gonna handle this now, because we won't, because we can't. When those spatial acts from ZUREP, they're not on the agenda today. In ZUreP we have that after 2021 in municipalities, not in administrative units, in municipalities where there will be no municipal spatial plans adopted by then, construction permits will no longer be issued. In a way, when we had this solution, the Court of Auditors’ opinion also attached itself to it. The fact is that we already have a spatial information system where these spatial plans have already been introduced. After the arbitral tribunal's decision, we will upgrade this spatial information system in this part, where necessary, and then it will be accessible to all, so not only the administrative units, not just the municipalities, but all of us. And then it will be possible in the municipalities that have adopted municipal spatial plans to see where there are other areas in terms of industrial zones, craft zones, business zones, where there is more to plan or to buy and build a plot, to obtain a building permit. Because this spatial information system currently covers only those municipalities where municipal spatial plans are adopted and we now have a basis for business and data collection in this law. In this work today, it is difficult to predict what is done if we do not see it. I'm aware of that. We've talked about this before. We also invite any of the Members and honourable Members to look at this information system with us; it is true that data are already being collected in this spatial information system when building permits are issued. When a building permit is issued, it shall be entered into this information system. Once we have completed the eProstor project, the possibility will also be available in acquisition or in electronic commerce – which will then be legalised and will then be the only option – for electronic commerce, in obtaining the appropriate opinions on the issue of the building permit and for the role alone. It's too much to say that we have things planned, but there's nothing yet. I just have to say, we already have a few things in place. We're preparing a few things for them to function, that's eSpace. The way to obtaining a building permit can be quite different from what it is today. When this condition is actually fulfilled, that all municipalities will have municipal spatial plans, not with me, of course, but at the time, I imagine that, as is the case today, this local opportunity to issue building permits only for certain municipalities will be denied. But there will be something like this now in the land book, when something is filed somewhere, an application for a building permit will be submitted; and depending on the burden of each administrative worker, then anyone will be able to resolve the building permit. I say this primarily for the reason that these solutions that we have are not seen in the sense that we do not know what we are writing. I would also like to turn to the payment of the municipal contribution. I was also the mayor in my career, and then also in the administrative unit of the Environment and Space Department. It is true that under the current legislation a building permit is valid for two years. It can be extended for another two years. And if someone obtained a building permit — at present, the condition of payment of a municipal contribution — and then for various reasons did not go into construction, it is time for the congregation to be to that individual, it could also be a company, but it was mostly natural persons who returned these funds for a municipal contribution, two years. In the congregations, this was a very difficult time because the visits of such citizens, who paid something, felt that they needed to get it back, seemed to them absolutely too long for two years. In fact, the mayor had no opportunity to return this earlier because the validity of the building permit had to be extinguished. We now have in our bill that the building permit is valid for five years. This seems very reasonable to us, especially for reasons, because if we leave this solution, this option could be taken away from some landowners with the naive today. This is to sell some land claiming to be the land on which construction is possible. If our solution is then confirmed, such people may realize that buying a plot for which a building permit is issued is only proof that there is really a possibility of building what he himself as a future investor wants to build. This means that such land would then be sold after a building permit has been issued, and the municipal contribution will be paid either before its entry into force or before ensuring that the construction begins. As I have already said, in this spatial information system, it will be possible in a way that is not called without finding out that the municipality will at any time see whether the notification is already part of the implementation. Inspectors are already checking with the help of this system where building permits are issued. In this work, we allow citizens something that they are not allowed to do now, namely not to buy some plots with the owner's claim that construction is possible on this plot, and later it can prove that this is not the case when obtaining a building permit. If we only remember the cases in the Braslovča Congregation, where these owners do not yet have their riddles solved. In returning funds, a five-year period when the funds paid for the municipal contribution are returned to individual citizens seems to me a long time. The regulation, as it is and such would also be maintained in the proposed law, cannot be abolished by a building permit, which is legally binding. If construction does not begin within five years, the building permit will cease to apply under the law itself. I thank you for the debate, for all the positive thoughts. Further discussion would be worth discussing. Our coordination, some of them I have attended, is about coordination with the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, with the Association of municipalities of Slovenia and the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia with their professional services. In these coordinations, the municipal contribution remained the most in the sense that the municipality should immediately secure its income. I agree with that, and I think that even with investors starting construction, that is not an obstacle. However, it is also necessary to leave some room of manoeuvre for our citizens who have not had these options so far, since building their own housing capacity in many municipalities in Slovenia is the only opportunity for our citizens to provide a suitable living environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec, procedurally? That's the only way.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Otherwise it will not be procedural; or so. I would suggest to the Minister that she look at the legislation in force and explain it accordingly in this national assembly. She said that the UNJO is accepted on a variety of grounds and will now work to ensure that the UNOs are unified. I hope he knows what he's talking about, because all the U.N.S. Department services, different institutes, confirm everything. I hope they are accepted and treated on the same grounds, not on different grounds. I hope so. Madam Minister, we have pointed out that a municipal contribution must be made, regardless of whether the proposed law speaks of paying at the beginning of the works, and then this five-year period that you are now interpreting is, in any case, irrelevant. Most coalition and opposition discussers pointed out that this was unacceptable and that a municipal contribution should be paid before the building permit was issued. And in this case, your explanation comes in handy, which means you've attached the whole of our debate. The second part, in which you are now discussing that this will be possible within five years and that this is better, is not in line with what you have written in your law. In Article 64, you speak of a municipal contribution being paid before the beginning of the works, 8 days before the beginning of the work. I would ask you to talk about the law you're proposing; and when you talk about the laws that apply, you talk about what is written. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Let's say a procedural proposal. Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time for discussion has not yet run out, I ask, does anyone else want to discuss it? Please sign up. This also applies to the representative of the Government, Madam Minister, by turning on the microphone. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater has 5 minutes. Mr. Bell Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much. There's a lot of new acquisitions in this marriage to make things go faster. But what we need to achieve in order to reach the level that neighbouring countries have, let's say, when we issue a building permit, is an average of 20 days, as you say. Yeah, from the perfect role. That the role is perfect, but it takes several years. Let's forget about it. Then why did Akrapovich wait six years for a building permit, if that's the average?Oh, my God! And that it is possible that co-operators make up or referees in administrative units yet to supplement; this is not true. If this is over now, it's okay. With regard to the OPN, this will be discussed next month, and it is likely to continue in the autumn. It is true that so many municipalities do not yet have the UNJO and that construction permits are now issued on the basis of spatial acts adopted 20 years ago. I got it right, my friend got it differently. And it's not right. In 2009 we adopted in the municipality of OOP in the deadline, I think that between the five municipalities as well as colleague Krivec when he was mayor. Then, in 2012, we went to supplement and obtained general guidance for the UNO in 2013. We are now in 2017 and the supplement has not yet been adopted in four years. As we take a closer look at why, what are the requirements of space regulators, one begins to loathe himself. When they're inventing different things every year, things that don't fit in any rules. “We will not change our opinion, period.” And I said, "Then you'll have to do something else, do it." When we fight for Magna there, when we go to the Fire Act to get 100 hectares of building land through all our legal order, someone remembers in the middle of the process, changes his opinion, and 16 hectares along the highway of the land is intended for the passage of a game that never went there. “We have such an attitude, dot, do not deviate from it.” And I said, "Then you'll have to listen to me here for a while." Who am I talking to? That needs to be changed. The spatial planner, who works for the congregation, needs to know in advance — here is possible and so; not that procedures are adopted or continued and money is spent. We deal with every role so much and so much costs, and in the end someone who changed his mind says, "No, now I mean otherwise, it's not going to work." Where are we? Then the space regulators enter their content through the spatial act and thus legalize their current flash. And with the spatial act it's an act, before it's gone, before it's nothing, it's all fog. It is only: this legislation, that regulation, European, such and different. If whoever's in charge of this gets up on the left or the right foot, that's right. Well, after the new one, it's gonna be different, but I don't think it's a solution, not yet. They need to be squeezed, they need to have a position; otherwise, they should do something else. There's a lot of that. If we do not come from this legislation so far that we will have such conditions for investors and foreign investors as the neighbouring Austria has to price EUR 20-30 of municipally equipped land, not EUR 100 and more, there will be no investors; we need new jobs, we need taxes and the rest. There's a lot to be done with this law. Next week, not so much [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Tink Lah. I'm sorry, there's something wrong with the technique. It's been more than five minutes. Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you again for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye to all of you again! Although there were not many debaters, I think there was a very substantive debate. In my opinion, all the rather solid replies from the Secretary of State, who tried to answer certain parts, I hoped that eventually she might get a word and answer specific questions. However, we received some exposition from the minister, who, although she had not been here for most of the time, sailed the MPs, then mixed up the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction of Buildings, talked about municipal and state spatial plans, said how the mayors were incapable of adopting municipal spatial plans. Dear Minister, if you look at your ministry’s website, how many municipal constituencies there are — usually a municipality and what sewerage and water company — then look at how many state sponsors there are under the Law on the Construction of Buildings in the Adoption of Municipal and State Spatial Plans — if printed, it would probably be for four pages. When an OPP is accepted or an OPPN of some kind, they say about 20 or a little more of the state’s co-operators. Today, all those who work a little at local level listen to how the congregations are, and I do not know who is to blame for the slow adoption of legislation or spatial plans. Dear Minister, with all due respect, you will probably have to apologize at the next meeting with the mayors that it is not only their fault; but it is also the fault of the various co-legislators who are in charge of at least two, three in all areas and for each square metre. Whether it's a stream or a hill or a cave or a road or something, there's always a ministry, an agency, a fund, a state co-sponsor. And so, once again, Minister, consider whether it is worth your time to run with the Construction Act or wait and take a complementary look at the law that we have before us today and the Law on Spatial Planning. Once again, it will not happen that after the adoption of the Law on the Construction of Buildings we will not get different opinions in the second law not only to the professional and other public, but also to the Law and Law Service of the National Assembly, which repeatedly says – boys and girls in the National Assembly, correct this because the government's legislative and legal service and officials in certain ministries, professions and lawyers have not done their job. If the Minister were here, I would say that we have found that certain things are going to change, that something might change; but the problem is in the general promises, how great, how fine it will be when, instead of consensus, the opinions come together. But practice teaches us that we have a problem in achieving what we call the so-called Austrian ideal – 8 days. And before that, I proved with your answer to my question of how ideal it was when two thirds of the same officials wrote a spatial planning law in the Ministry, where transitional provisions promised that municipalities would have spatial plans within two years. In ten years there are no three quarters, 149 is less than 211, in short there are not three quarters of municipalities with municipal spatial plans. And I'm afraid of that, not because of the pity of some official at the Ministry, but because of the practice that, despite the nice words about how great, fine things will be in obtaining a building permit, we may already have problems with the implementation of the law, followed in the preceding article by the so-called enforcement rules when certain officials make up such or other matters, we may even refer to the European directive in order to have exactly such regulations, with such centimeters, with such square centimeters, with such cubic centimeters and other measuring units. I'm afraid we'll end up with a bad practical performance after the fine words of theory. And so once again, let us take the law one month later; and let it be better than the present.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irena Majcen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you. I would like to thank Mr Lach for his understanding of my surrender, and I must say that I fully agree with him. It is true that, so far, the current Law on Construction of Buildings (PGI) has been in fact on a number of units in which an official – not to be overly generalized at all, because I don't think everyone has done so –to know when the role is complete, for a long time, for a few months, even a year. Again and again, the applicant was required to complete the application for a building permit. We now have this resolved in this law, an administrative officer in the administrative unit can only ask for a supplement once, and he must then write everything relevant and complete the application. However, if the application is already so prepared, even with the consent of the neighbours, it follows practically a reduced procedure for obtaining a building permit. Thank you very much for supporting us or for agreeing with us. However, when giving an opinion to the co-legislators, I would like to say that not all co-operators are listed under this Act, because many of them consider it necessary to obtain their consent on the basis of their laws. We cannot solve everything in this law because it is a question of not letting go of any law depending on how many of these co-operators there are. Here, however, I would like to say for myself that the issue of construction permits is currently under the SGI and later also under the construction law, based on spatial plans that are of different quality. The procedure for issuing a building permit is therefore different when it was mentioned that these procedures are not the same. It's true, they're not. Finding the culprit, I'm really not looking for the culprit, why there are no more municipal spatial plans. It's up to me to explain that the mayors have nothing to do with this, and it's not gonna work. I don't know where to look, but I have to look somewhere. That's not gonna work. If I think about how much we did at the time of my county's adoption of the municipal spatial plan, now it hasn't moved in seven years, because it's moved, but it's still not. However, this indicates that municipalities where the mayors are interested in adopting these procedures, and then a lot of preliminary examination of the individual sections of the plan is subject to, say, Natura 2000 or what conditions they are with regard to water. With regard to roads, it is clear to us that for many roads, that is, local ones, the congregation is a co-sponsor; otherwise, it is not. But what I'm saying is that a lot of things can be cleaned up in the adoption of the UN, that's some way, I just wanted to say to myself, that even now that we're going to adopt a building law – I want it, especially for the sake of investors, because of people – to still make a little difference whether this building permit as a basis will have a municipal spatial plan or not. That was my intention to tell those who were interested. And by the way, thank you so much for the debate. Mr Lah, in view of our cooperation in the past, I hope that you are at least a little satisfied with the prepared material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the course of the meeting, decide in the framework of the votes in about half an hour. I hereby interrupt the 9th item of the agenda and also the 31st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 16.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u118	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 15, 8, 9, 16, 7, 5, 11 and 12 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to the end of the 15th item of the agenda, which is to re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. We are moving on to a re-decision on that law. I would like to point out that, in order to adopt that law, a majority of all members of the assembly should vote in favour of the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of that law, i.e. 46 or more. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will touch on the important dimension of this point, to which the rapporteur of the Council of State has also pointed. There is a subject that has been rolling for us since this entire mandate, and there is some preliminary funding for the mandatory tasks of the municipalities. Forever so-called averages, someone calls them chieftains. I do not know how many audit reports of the Court of Auditors are read in other parliamentary groups. This audit report has recently been issued. What's he telling us? At the Ministry of Public Administration, it is somehow unclear to them how many of these mandatory tasks it is to communicate with the Ministry of Finance, that the government is only partially aware of this. In some approximately normal parliamentary democracy, the Minister of Public Administration should step down within 24 hours. I asked Mr Koprivnik again on behalf of the United Left for the first half of his term of office, and then he showed me once a website where I should pick it up. I didn't ask him just like that; on behalf of the United Left, I asked him, because this is some matrix that the referee minister, who prefers, regrettably, bingo from helicopters, had to have and in the light of the new policy of this. In fact, he did not do so, and this mandate is, in fact, clearly a delayed mandate for the reform of local self-government, which is necessary. We are not all just Members and Members, we are also citizens and citizens of Slovenian municipalities. This creation of a substantive minister, who has the most diverse portfolio, as well as these coalitions, is extremely irresponsible. We will therefore abstain in this vote in the United Left. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u120	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for an Act on Architecture and Engineering. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Act on Architecture and Engineering is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 61 votes against and 17 votes against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Construction Law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a construction law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 17. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Decision on Internal Organisation, Jobs and Names in the Services of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on the supplement to the pension for work and outstanding achievements in the field of sport, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Floor Property in Certain Buildings and on the Identification of Precinct Land, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 51 were voted against and no one was present. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Ombudsman. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on amendments to the Law on the Ombudsman is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group is given by Matjaž Hanžek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much, President. In the United Left, we will certainly support the further debate on this law as appropriate. However, I would like to point out that we will continue to take a closer and closer look at the whole marriage. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular to the National Assembly and to those who we are, you were thrilled that the Ombudsman would protect the rights of children and so on, which is wonderful and all congratulations to the Ombudsman, especially to those who have done so before the Ombudsman. But I'd like to warn you about something. This is a matter that should have long been regulated by the State, to work, since the Ombudsman is mainly a control institution. When we started with these employees almost a decade and a half ago [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u122	A little peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u123	In the Ombudsman's case, we started this because the State institutions did not do this. [[…]] That's when we thought we'd set up the beginning of an institution that would then [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I don't know if I should keep talking or if I'd rather go home because it doesn't matter if there's no one here. Why don't you come sit here, 'cause you can sit in your room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-06-22-SDZ7-Redna-31.ana.u124	We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 57 votes against 5. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act is suitable for further consideration. A little peace, please! We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 23. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the disabled as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Members and Members of Parliament, I ask that in preparation of the Hall for the festivities meeting on Saturday, 24. 6. 2017, at 8 p.m., take all your materials from the hall. I also conclude the 31st session of the National Assembly. I expect there'll be a greater peace in the hall when we have our festive session!
