ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we have quite a few reasons to celebrate this week. Today we celebrate the 28th anniversary of the creation of the Mayan Declaration, which paved the way for our independence, tomorrow, May 9th, we celebrate the 72nd anniversary of the arrival of partisan units in Ljubljana and the liberation of Ljubljana, and at the same time tomorrow the Municipality of Ljubljana in the National Heroes Market in Parliament will discover the monument of Dr. Francet Bučar, the first president of the democratically elected assembly. I therefore propose that today's meeting take place in this positive spirit. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mrs Ljudmila Novak from 3 p.m., Mrs Iva Dimic from 14 p.m. to 15 p.m., Violeta Tomić, Mr Jan Mahnič from 2.30 p.m. to 22 p.m., Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 7 p.m., Dr. László Göncz from 16.30 p.m., Mr Roberto Battelli, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec from 15.30 p.m. and from 20 p.m. to Matjaž Hanžek from 17 p.m. I invited the President of the Government, Dr Mir Cerar, to the 2nd item, the representative of the Council of State at the 3rd and 4th points, and representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday, 4 May 2017, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 74 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 43rd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. On behalf of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is the report on the participation of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Miroslav Cerar, at the extraordinary meeting of the European Council in the format of the EU27 (50). ARTICLE) ON THE BASIC GUIDELINES FOR BREXIT 29. APRIL 2017 IN BRUSLIE. On 4 May 2017, the Government forwarded the Report on the participation of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Miroslav Cerar, at an extraordinary meeting of the European Council in the format of the EU27 (50th Article), on the subject of the negotiating guidelines for Brexit on 29 April 2017 in Brussels, and at the same time proposed that the President of the Government, under the second paragraph of that Rule of Procedure, explain it orally at the meeting. I immediately sent you the report in accordance with the provisions of Article 239(2). I give the floor to Dr Mir Cerar, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to present the report orally to the National Assembly. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members, dear citizens and citizens! 13 years ago, Slovenia achieved one of its key priorities and became an equal part of the European Union, a member of a unique community which, based on historical experience, is still aware of the importance of freedom, peace and fundamental democratic values of the Union, which is aware that we can only be united better and stronger, has become one of the largest economies in the world over the past 60 years, and has also established and maintained an enviable level of prosperity and social protection. We are not aware of this progress and the reality of the situation in the Union. The fact is that the Union has changed since the outbreak of the global financial and economic crisis. Many of the challenges that we have been different from Member States have taken a good step towards its development, have undermined the ability to cooperate effectively and, particularly worryingly, have brought citizens' mistrust to the future of the link in general. To some extent, there are increasing calls for protectionism, extreme nationalism and the destruction of the values that have fortified for decades instead of trying to find common solutions. The outcome of yesterday's presidential elections in France and before that the parliamentary elections in the Netherlands are a clear confirmation that such a path is largely unacceptable. That the will of people, through cooperation, peace and freedom and a common response to increasingly strong and unpredictable global challenges, is still clearly expressed in the Union. Dear Members and Members! The European Union is far from perfect. It needs changes and concrete decisions on how to improve things. But this community is still the best alternative available to us. I am convinced that the European Union is the best option for both Slovenia and the other Member States to create a better future for all our citizens and citizens. No Member State alone can do as much as we can for all countries together, in close cooperation and in liaison. Unfortunately, not everyone shares that thought. As you know, at the referendum last June, the UK citizens decided to leave the European Union. We have not yet desired such decisions, but we respect their democratic will. We're moving on now. We've got a new time ahead of us. Following the formal launch of the exit procedure from the European Union a good week ago, the leaders of the 27 Member States at the special European Council adopted the key guidelines for the start of the negotiations and to the European Commission as our negotiator. We have adopted guidelines quickly and decisively. This expression of strength and unity of the seven-twenty is significant and also surprised London. Of course, this does not mean that our unity at this time will not be tested again. The negotiations are beginning with a determination to proceed first with the process of the process of a negotiated separation and then to adopt a new form of Union cooperation with the United Kingdom – a uniform, fair, for all and without separate negotiations under the table. However, of course, we will also agree on the future development of the Union of 27 countries with the aim of making this process better and stronger and open to further enlargement. As it is said, exit negotiations will not yet be easy. The expectations of both sides are already very different at the beginning. In the following year and a half, negotiations can go a long way. No divorce is easy, not after 44 years together. Whatever the outcome of the negotiations, relations with the United Kingdom will change significantly. The situation will certainly be changed for our citizens who work and live in the island, and even more so for the companies that operate with the island. However, if it is in the mutual interest of citizens, the United Kingdom has already made it clear that it is no longer seen as part of the European Union's single market. We must all be well prepared for this and, above all, in good time. An important element of the guidelines adopted is the so-called phase of the negotiating process. It means that, first of all, from the start of the new British government to the end of autumn, we want to agree on three of the most important elements. Firstly, on the rights of citizens, secondly, on appropriate financial settlement and thirdly, on the status of the border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland as an important element of peace in this part of Europe. Only after sufficient progress has been made in these areas will we focus on other open issues. This second part of the exit negotiations, which is expected to continue until autumn 2018, should also launch preliminary discussions on future cooperation policy with the United Kingdom. If negotiations are to take place on a fixed time-table, the United Kingdom from the Union is expected to withdraw from the Union in the spring of 2019. Only then would there be, I hope, the most ambitious agreement on a new relationship between the Union and the United Kingdom, whose implementation will also depend on the decision of this esteemed State Council. We must be aware, however, that negotiations at any stage can take different paths than we are currently planning. The negotiating process will therefore always require appropriate dynamic adjustments and our full attention. But this process must not deter us from refocusing our attention on key development themes. For in the coming months and years, we must prove to our citizens as firmly and effectively as possible that we are able, of course, to ensure security and peace, to continue to develop and modernise the European Union, to be able to ensure further economic growth, employment growth, to offer a clear perspective to young people, to develop and use the latest information technologies and to successfully drive the Union into the future in all other ways. Ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia is ready to negotiate with the United Kingdom. The first priority in these negotiations is the welfare of our citizens. On the Island he lives, studies or works about a thousand 500 Slovenian citizens. Our aim is to ensure that their rights acquired following the departure of the United Kingdom from the Union change as little as possible and, above all, the predictability of their situation in the United Kingdom is important. That is why we need to agree on this first. The elimination of uncertainty is also crucial for all, as, apart from citizens, different economic and financial actors on both sides of the negotiating table are also deeply concerned. Finally, Slovenian exports to the United Kingdom amount to more than €500 million per year, and services add about 160 million more. Slovenian tourism will also have an important impact, as British tourists create around 4% of all foreign nights each year. The indirect effects of the exit, in particular its financial aspect, will therefore be very important for Slovenia. The fact is that with the exit of the third largest member of the European Union, which contributes around 15% of the total budget of the European Union annually, it will also significantly change the scope of the European budget, which is important for Slovenia's dominant share of public investment. Our position is therefore clear here – we will do everything we can to ensure that Brexit does not reduce the amount of cohesion policy funds or the common agricultural policy available to us in this financial perspective. This is why it is crucial, and we have therefore agreed at the recent Brussels summit, that in the first stage of the exit process we agree on a fair payment of all commitments and commitments arising from the entire period of membership of the United Kingdom in the Union. Slovenians have a nice negotiation for this. Clean accounts, good friends. Fair financial settlement is an important basis for trust and good further cooperation. It is the basis for our ambitious cooperation with the United Kingdom in the future, which I hope will not only stop in trade, but will be much broader, including in the areas of security, defence, external relations, development cooperation, science, higher education, etc. Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time, the UK's decision to leave the European Union is an opportunity for a new impetus for the European Union. Unity and determination have been confirmed several times. It is time to start concrete agreements on what kind of Europe we want. The five well-known idealistic scenarios presented by the European Commission in order to stimulate the debate and President Juncker discussed them for the first time in Slovenia on purpose this March. These scenarios are therefore the starting points for reflection on our common future, allowing for a combination, as well as the creation of a completely new common scenario. It is therefore not about any black and white positioning, but about the rainbow range of opportunities that we must convert through democratic dialogue into our common story of the future. It is, therefore, crucial that we all begin to implement what we have committed ourselves to so far, and in the coming months, we are shaping a vision of the future of a strong European Union, one in which we are committed together to the same basic framework and objectives, even though, if this would benefit the further development of the Union, the pace of progress towards these objectives can also be different. If this were to happen, I have no doubt that Slovenia would not remain in the most related part of the European Union. Slovenia is committed to the values followed by the founders of the European Union. We have also demonstrated this with words and actions several times, so we will actively insist, together with similar thinking countries, that these values remain at the heart of European integration. The European Union needs strong institutions, but it is the task of these to clearly and decisively defend the interests of the whole community on the basis of equal treatment of all members. This is particularly true for the European Commission, but unfortunately some of its decisions do not help to strengthen the common interest. It is unacceptable – as we have seen in the recent proposal to extend control at the internal borders of the European Union – that the Commission is subordinated to the interests of only a small number of Member States. This decision is in total conflict with the common interest to consolidate the Schengen area and to strengthen the single market based on the free movement of people, goods and services. In the absence of convincing objective arguments, it simply harms our economy and does not contribute to good neighbourly relations, but it makes it clear that the Union cannot appreciate enough of its own achievements and the efforts of those who work hard to protect the Schengen borders and thus ensure the security of its entire area. There is a strong awareness in Slovenia that agreements need to be respected, especially when it comes to European legislation. When applying the latter, it is important that people living at the external border or the latter with good intentions are legally prevented from crossing the waiting line as short as possible. We also managed to achieve this last Saturday with a lot of effort with the help of the European Commission. We have received clearer guidance on what is still acceptable in the implementation of the regulation, so that the situation at the border crossings will be sustainable. The fact is, the columns on the border with neighbouring Croatia have always been and will be. Finally, our first priority remains to respect the rule of law of the European Union and to ensure security, and therefore Slovenia will continue to be the Ombudsman of the Schengen Border. Discussions on the future of the European Union need to be addressed through concrete agreements and measures focused on people's well-being. In addition to some of the guidelines already mentioned, much more will have to be done in the area of social cohesion, or the so-called European Pillar of Social Rights. The fact is that the population of the old continent is unreservedly ageing, that quality jobs are too small and that due to the consequences of globalisation and the recent crises, social inequality in the Union is too large, and in many European countries it is significantly higher than in us. And that needs to be answered. There is no point in talking about a better Europe if its citizens are not receiving it. It will therefore be necessary to focus more fully on this subject in the coming months. That is exactly what I discussed with the ministers at the youth meeting days ago. We also discussed this with Swedish colleague Löfven on his recent visit to Slovenia. On 17 November this year, Sweden hosts a social summit for growth and decent jobs, where I will participate actively. Finally, let me add that the future of the European Union and Slovenia is inseparably intertwined. As I advocate further joint development of the European Union, I am doing so out of the belief that the possible disintegration of the Union by all its members and the whole of Europe would lead back to the past, in times of many mutual disagreements and conflicts. This would be extremely negative for Slovenia as well. Of course, at the same time, I am aware that Slovenia has a good and acceptable future for the European Union, in which Slovenian citizens and citizens will also be guaranteed peace, human dignity, fundamental freedoms and human rights, security, work and creativity, the highest possible level of social well-being and other democratic, legal and solidarity values. Dear Members and Members! We live in interesting times, full of challenges at home and around the world. Last but not least, we are also receiving the historic exit of one of the members of the European Union. But this can make us even stronger if we focus on people's needs and not on their fears, if we actually start making key decisions and if only the awareness, as Vice-President Timmermans recently said, that we have only two kinds of countries in Europe – small and those who do not yet know how small they are. I wish you a pleasant celebration of Europe's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his report. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is for a re-decision on the Law on Construction, Management and Management of the Second Tyre of the Hooker-Coper Railway. At its 28th extraordinary meeting, on 26 April 2017, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divaca-Koper Railway be re-elected before the announcement. To explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Jerne Verbic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! At its 28th extraordinary meeting, the Council of State adopted a request for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide again on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Railway Route of Divac-Koper. The National Council points out that it is not doubtful that it is necessary – not only to achieve the business objectives of Luka Koper, but also in terms of the benefits of the logistics transport sector and the Slovenian economy in general – to establish as soon as possible a modern railway connection between the port of Koper and its markets. The Council of State also recognises that the possible search for new solutions for the second track that would require a change in the State Spatial Plan would result in a few years' departure from the start of the second track, which of course should not happen. Nevertheless, we cannot support the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway, since it is one of the key infrastructure projects in Slovenia that requires deliberate solutions for its implementation, but does not contain them, unfortunately. Among other things, it does not provide a stable financial structure for the implementation of the project, although its objective is to ensure an effective second-track financing model. The Council of State also points out that the law is opposed by those stakeholders who are supposed to provide funding to finance the construction of a second track. These are: Luka Koper, Association for Transport at GZS and Section for Transport at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The law sets out in Article 30 funding sources for the construction of the second track, with only EUR 200 million of state budget funds to be provided, while the remaining funding sources are now uncertain. In the past, the Council of State has already taken the view that in the search for additional sources of funding for the second track of the Koper-Divač railway route, it is essential that Slovenia connects with the countries of the multinational group, to which Luka Koper represents the shortest supply route and has the greatest interest in building this second track. However, it is not clear at this point whether the so-called opposing countries to which government representatives are speaking will cooperate at all and with what financial participation and, above all, under what conditions. The Council of State also points out that in the public opinion it raises doubts as to whether the specific conditions are not known to the public – whether they are merely a return on a given loan, or whether there are other expectations in the context of a possible logistical holding, which is unacceptable for Luka Koper in terms of its neutrality and thus competitive advantages. The State Council also recalls the unacceptable additional financial burden on carriers in the form of a toll charge and Luke Koper in the form of a transshipment fee in the Kore cargo port. The additional financial burden on those stakeholders in the transport chain will result in a deterioration of their competitive position, which is certainly not the right solution from the point of view of the trend towards greater visibility of Slovenia as an important logistics destination. In view of the expected benefits of the second track for Luka Koper, it is right to participate in financing its construction, but it would be more logical to anticipate Luke Koper’s profit as a source of financing for the second track. In the opinion of the Council of State, the public would deserve a clearer presentation of the possibility of funding, and it also deserves to know what the real value of the investment will be. Given that Slovenia has failed in the past to obtain European funds for this project, the issue of this time the successful acquisition of European funds and thus the financial opportunity to build a second track is raised. The State Council also notes that 2TKK, instead of its limited liability, should bear unlimited responsibility for the performance of its tasks. In view of past poor experience in the construction of major infrastructure projects, the law should limit corruption risks to a minimum and lay down additional conditions for responsible persons. Since, even before the adoption of the law, uncertainty about the financing of the construction of the second track should be addressed, or more precisely defined, the economic origins should be defined, the Council of State proposes that the National Assembly decide again on the law and reject it. From the point of view of the projected economic growth and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia, the state councilors are also examining the proposal that the country itself, with the help of European funds and loans, ensure the implementation of the project. The difficulty in financing the project must not be the reason for the third partner's entry into the ownership of the consortium. The importance of the second track for Luka Koper could be justified by the intention to finance this strategic project itself with additional debt. In view of the expected multiplier effects of the second track and data on several billions of euro of savings from households in banks, it would also make sense to consider the possibility of Slovenian taxpayers participating in financing its construction by issuing infrastructure bonds. Thank you so much for listening. What you press is your business.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u5	The request was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, the Environment and Space as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Nice greetings to Members and Members and representatives of the Ministry and other representatives of the Government! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 53rd emergency meeting. 5. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway, submitted to the National Council. The request was accepted by the State Council at its 28th extraordinary session. 4. 2017. The request of the Council of State was presented by Councillor Jernej Verbič and, like today, presented the reasons for their decision. On behalf of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Jure Leben, pointed out that the Government had given a written opinion presenting its arguments on the criticisms raised by the State Council in the request. The responses to the criticisms of the State Council will be reiterated by the representative of the Government of Jura Leben, State Secretary. In accordance with its powers, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined the request for re-decision on the law and has found that the State Council’s statements relate to issues related to the assessment of the substantive suitability of the legislation. The questions thus identified go beyond the scope of the tasks of the Legislative and Legal Service set out in Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and have therefore not been defined until those reasons. In the debate, the opposition Members fully supported the State Council's arguments in favour of the decisions of the state councillors to vote veto on the law and, inter alia, pointed out that instead of limited liability, 2TKK should bear unlimited responsibility for the performance of its duties. In view of past poor experience in the construction of major infrastructure projects, the law should limit corruption risks as much as possible, lay down additional conditions for those responsible. As a failure to adopt a specific law for the construction of a second track, it was also pointed out that two new tracks should be built under the project and that the second track project was defined as a project based on an existing building permit defining the construction of one track by means of an accompanying trench. For possible deviations from the existing building permit, they believe that the law will have to be amended, which is an additional obstacle to the optimal implementation of projects. Members of the Modern Centre Party expressed their support for the law and pointed out that after many years of discussions on the construction of the second track, the government of Dr. Mir Cerar finally decided to undertake the actual implementation of the project. In their view, the law provides a good basis for all planned follow-up activities, including negotiations with European institutions, banks and behind-the-countries, to approach the financing of the project. With regard to the evidence that the law does not limit corruption risks sufficiently, they pointed out that, inter alia, in Article 7 of the Act for the bodies of the company and members of the bodies of the company, it provides that, in addition to the provisions of the law governing the company, they are required to comply with a series of additional conditions and criteria that are appropriate for preventing corruption risks. With regard to the indication that the law is an obstacle to the successful implementation of the project and not an urgent condition, since it specifically mentions the building permit on the basis of which the project is to be implemented, the Secretary of State explained that Article 2 of the Act clearly defines that the implementation is based on a specific building permit, including any subsequent renewals, updates or upgrades on the same route. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted, by a majority of the votes of all members, 11 and 4 against, that the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the second track of the Divača-Koper railway line was appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u7	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposaler of the law. Mr Jure Leben, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The government is proposing to this assembly that today, in its re-decision, the latter should re-adopt the law on the second track. Let me explain. The second track project is a priority project of the government, the coalition. To take the project seriously, our visible results show. We have been granted a building permit, we are building an extraction track, we have connected with the behind countries, we have received the support of the European Investment Bank and the European Commission. We have prepared a law on the second track, which is urgently needed if we want to start building a second track this year. In its explanation of the veto, the Council of State highlights the unstable financial structure of the project. The opinion of the State Council that Slovenia could itself finance this project from budgetary resources is not in line with the principles of the Fiscal Rule Act. Nor is it acceptable for the Government to take additional responsibility for this project, as proposed by the State Council. Finally, we have achieved a key fiscal stability that this government does not intend to reshape. The government therefore proposes in the second indent law that the financial burden and responsibility for the project be distributed – not only to Slovenia and to European funds, but also to obtain the financial contribution of the behind countries and the loan of the European Investment Bank. Such a clear and transparent way of financing separates a second-track project from other major infrastructure projects that were built on the basis of the State guarantee. The Ministry does not propose a state guarantee. We have also presented our vision of the financial structure to the European Investment Bank, the European Commission, Jaspers and we have received a response to go in the right direction. We want to allocate the financial burden among the stakeholders involved and transparently include in the project all those who will benefit from the second track. I would like to point out once again that we do not want to burden Slovenian taxpayers with the project, which we have over and over and over again after unnecessary payment for errors. In its explanation of the veto, the Council of State underlines Hungary's unclear role. The law does not define cooperation with a particular country, but with the other countries. The government believes that the second track is the project of Slovenia and the entire region, so we are working with the LAGs. In the debate in the State Council, I heard a lot of disinformation about Hungary's involvement in the project. The logic of the Ministry, which is agreed by both the European institutions and the professional public, is that the project is brought together by all stakeholders who will benefit directly from the project. Let me rephrase, holding with Hungary is not on the table. Hungary and I are working together under a clear prerequisite that infrastructure and Luka Koper remain Slovenia. I would like to stress that the Interstate Agreement will be confirmed by you, Members of Parliament and Members. If you do not agree with Hungary's cooperation, it will not happen. The second track project is of course of crucial importance for Luka Koper and its competitiveness, since this corridor represents the shortest supply route from the Mediterranean direction, and therefore the second track law also provides for financial cooperation of all legal and natural persons carrying out the transhipment in Luka Koper. To conclude, the Government is not in a hurry, the government has proposed this law as a matter of urgency, because we want to provide investment to 2TKK in time so that it can apply more effectively for CEF's European funds. At the same time, we held a broad debate; we met with Luka Koper, with Slovenian Railways, residents of Black Kal, with a civil initiative. We are aware that a broader consensus is needed for such a major project, and we have led a self-initiative and constructive dialogue at the request of the coalition. We took into account everyone's comments. In particular, I would like to point out that we have also taken into account the Commission's comments on the prevention of corruption and the Court of Auditors. A respected choir! The fate of this law and this project is back in your hands. It is the fate of the second track that depends on the convocation of this assembly. Today, in our hands, it is an opportunity to join history and to be proud that this important milestone has been made during our term and that we can begin the construction of a second track. This will be our joint success, as we will jointly modernise our country. Let me get this straight. We need this law if we are to start building a second track. We need your vote to proceed. For all these reasons, the Government proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a second indent law when re-decision is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u9	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u10	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! The second track is undoubtedly needed for faster development of logistics and the economy in general if we are to take advantage of the geostrategic position at the site of the fifth and tenth European transport corridor. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the project and we are confident that we must build two new tracks at the same time. The national location plan for the second track was adopted already in 2005. In 2010, the value of the project was expected to be 600 million and in 2015 it was already over a billion. Activities for alternative variants of the second track were also launched at that time. The details of the project were kept secret to the public at all times. We're wondering why. The Minister promised a more detailed presentation of the project after the audit, which did not reveal all the pitfalls of the project and argued the high value of building only one track. In the debate, the Council of State opened a series of dilemmas to which the proposed law does not respond and is inappropriate. In the New Slovenia Group, we expected answers to a number of questions at the Committee on Infrastructure on Friday, but unfortunately there were no. In our view, the project is too expensive and inappropriate because it only provides a half-solution of the necessary railway connections. The second track with only one track will cost 52 million per kilometer and will be significantly more expensive than the most expensive motorway sections. In comparison, the Shantvian bypass, so inexorably, cost 48 million per kilometer, 2 quadruple tunnels, the Trojana section, which was very demanding, only 24 million per kilometer. Or the construction of a highway on this coastal work – two tunnels, viaduct, the largest in Slovenia, 19 million. More than half as much as this track's gonna cost. This data shows that this project is essentially too expensive. In the New Slovenia Group we propose to complement the project by building two tracks at the same time, preferably at a more optimal option and significantly cheaper. This was also discussed extensively by the State Council, which argued on what the prices of construction are today and at what price this can be built. As long as we do not have a project to perform works, it is difficult to assess how much the project will cost. We therefore propose that the project for the execution of works be first designed, then, based on market prices, construction prices, evaluate this project and then, if we go together with the other countries, first conclude an interstate contract and then adopt legislation if necessary. In our opinion, it is not necessary. In our view, it is possible to build two tracks with a half price of the envisaged and the remaining resources spent on building the most urgent part of the southern and northern part of the third development axis. Civil initiative has already collected signatures and, as far as I am aware, it has more than that necessary to start collecting signatures for the referendum invitation. Is that even necessary? Don't we see that the planners have gone by, which is what engineering chambers see, because they're all against this project. In the debate on the committee, however, it was very strange because those of you who don't know how to build could be asked before deciding on the nonsense we have here on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u11	The text is given by the non-connected Members' Group, Dr Bojan Dobovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u12	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! Critical infrastructure is still important for the development of the country. This is known to all advanced countries, and of course the Scandinavian countries are leading the way. Our neighbours are building infrastructure that's important because of the multiple effects. What about us? A whole bunch of problems. There's been a lot of exposure. Procedural first – haste by procedure, which was pointed out both at the KPK, the Court of Auditors, the State Council, corruption risks. Then how we build and what we will build is not clear to this day. One track, two tracks, in some way. And of course what is most important, where are the strategic interests of Slovenia? What are these phantom icy states? What kind of project is a public-public partnership? It's not clear how much money and why. And why build in this way anyway? Who's happy? The minister, his team, and team 2TKK are satisfied. Why? Because we don't need a marriage at all. Why is the law here? Because this brings responsibility to Members, as with SDH supervisors recently. Thus, Members will be responsible for the entire project when the Commission of Inquiry is then. And if we look ahead, we see that it has been mentioned that the Interstate Agreement will also be confirmed by Members. When will the minister or his team be in charge? I appeal to SD Members and others in the coalition who have already supported one similar project, TES 6. Will you support such a project again? I see what the State Council has done as a lifeline that it has thrown you to get rid of your responsibilities and transfer to those who have brought this project to Parliament. Let them answer. We cannot support such a project in the group of non-connected Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u13	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u14	Dear President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a re-decision on the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway. The second line of the Divača-Koper railway line is one of the largest infrastructure projects in the Republic of Slovenia, which aims to increase the capacity of rail freight in this section and thus enable and accelerate the further development of Luka Koper and also the general Slovenian economy. The second track project is and will be a project of more governments; this government has not started and will not complete it. Her goal is to get the project out of the dead course into motion. And that's the law we have on the table. The law lays down the legal basis of the project, sets out the status of the company 2TKK, its role in the construction and management of the second track, the revenue to be paid to the liabilities of 2TKK, the status of the infrastructure or the track itself and the provisions intended to address the corruption risks, including the recommendation of the Commission to prevent corruption, such as the conditions for the meeting of the leaders in that company, the obligation to apply public procurement legislation, the obligation to separate accounting records and the involvement of the Court of Auditors and the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Because there are indications regarding the law that they have nothing to do with its contents, let me explain. This law does not limit any decision on whether to build two tracks or one track on a new route, which is a lot of debate. The course of the second track, the number and location of tunnels, safety and bridge facilities were established more than 10 years ago, first in 2005, when the Regulation on the national location plan for the second track at the Divač-Koper section was adopted. Today, some, including those of the ruling policy, are criticising the project because of the planned single line, noting that the decision on the single track has already been made during the previous governments, even when there were all the reasons mentioned today as crucial for the construction of the parallel track to the second track. These reasons are: abandoning the old route because it burdens the environment and the people around it and so on. Why the previous governments insisted on building one track – either because of the funds invested in rebuilding the existing track or because of the increase in investment costs – is not important for today’s decision-making. Because, as has already been said, the law does not restrict the possible decision to build a parallel track. On the contrary, the government's representatives confirmed that this option is also open, and requires its own time, which, at least as regards the construction of a track, is no longer available, so many warn. This law also does not provide that a dedicated undertaking must be included in the financing of the project by means of a capital injection, but merely provides that it can be included in what the Government is working on, but that we will decide whether or not to participate in this national assembly only subsequently. In the parliamentary group, we disagree with the position of the Council of State on the re-decision requirement. We only agree with the part where the State Council emphasises that the possible search for new solutions for the second track that would require a change in the state spatial plan would result in a few years' departure from the beginning of the second track, which cannot happen. It follows that the State Council also rejects the attempts of some of the heard interest communities to verify the third variants of the second track so long after the adoption of that first national site plan. We also do not agree with the State Council's arguments that the second track should be financed solely from the profits of Luke Koper and not as a transhipment fee, as laid down in the law, because the revenues of this company, i.e. 2TKK, must be stable. As has been explained earlier, our Group agrees with the Government's position that it is right to pursue long-term good relations with such a project, including in favour of the economies of all participating countries. Of course, the final decision will fall when the possible international treaty is ratified. In the parliamentary group, we also disagree with the State Council's assessment that the public did not know the actual value of the investment. In the Republic of Slovenia, only one evaluation was carried out by the company Geodata. All the other assessments being carried out in public are approximate and, I will say, assessments that are not professional, which have not been made on the basis of the procedures set out for the evaluation of such projects, which is why we also receive a lot of manipulation. The right price will only be awarded once the tenderers have applied and the right price may be lower than what is currently being assessed. In view of the above, our parliamentary group will once again support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u15	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greeting also to all colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The National Assembly must decide again on the law on the construction, management and management of the second track. In an extraordinary session of 23 votes in favour and two against, the state councillors voted in favour of the second indent of the second indent, giving a very clear message to us who will decide again, as well as to the Ministry and Government. The State Council, in its veto, particularly stresses its support for the construction of the second track of Koper-Divić, but points out that solutions in the proposed law do not allow for successful implementation. The law does not provide stable and predictable financial structures for the implementation of the project, although the key objective of the law is to ensure an effective financing model. They also point to the opposition of stakeholders to provide funding to finance the construction of a second track. Thus Luka Koper, Association for Transport at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Section for Transport at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, all object. Although the law defines funding resources in Article 30, only the funds of the state budget amounting to EUR 200 million are provided. Other resources envisaged: capital injections, loans and EU funds are still uncertain. At this point, it is also unclear whether the countries with which the talks are being held will cooperate at all. Nor is their financial participation clear and the conditions under which it will be given. There is much talk about cooperation with Hungary, where intensive discussions are to take place, but the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure did not know us at the Committee meeting on Friday or did not wish to provide any information on how many of these meetings have been held recently. There are also no clear answers regarding the increase in the profile of the escape trenches to the transport profile, which later allows the upgrading of another track. It is clear, however, that this means a change in the existing building permit, which the law, as it is now written down, does not allow. It is clear to all those involved in investing and applying for EU funds that this dilemma must be removed immediately before the call for tender. Many questions remain open and have not received relevant answers since the previous examination of the law. There is still a problem with the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, as the concerns and comments of the various stakeholders have not been addressed precisely enough. Therefore, there is also a high likelihood that the law will be judged at the referendum if it is re-elected in the National Assembly, which raises a major question about meeting the time limit foreseen by the law, including the application to the EU of funds. According to the Ministry’s replies, a technical solution is also questionable and a related building permit is issued, which is explicitly stated in the law and does not, of course, include the construction of an additional track. There is also an irresponsible question as to what should we not get sufficient EU grants. It also remains unanswered, what if the funds of the behind countries are not obtained at the planned level. It is probably clear to everyone that these resources will have to be replaced. So there will be a budget or an increase in loans. It is also unclear why the newly established company 2TKK is directly subordinated to the Government, which is contrary to other state-owned companies managed by SDH. In this case, the 2TKK, together with the Government as a meeting itself, approves the investment programme. In the Commission's view, the Government's second-tier bill is also inappropriate and allows corruption risks to arise. Since there is too much confusion in this project and is trying to transfer responsibility to Members for the decision on the future long-term financing of disproportionately expensive and non-economic project from public funds under different peripheral principles, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we will vote against the law and support the veto of the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Ivan Hršak is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! As expected, the State Council voted veto in the Law on the Construction, Management and Management of the Second Route of the Divac-Koper Railway. According to our assessment, this is a classic move to delay the adoption of the law, which is finally expected to bring about a significant shift towards the realization of the second track project. In our parliamentary group, we find it extremely double-faced that the State Council and the opponents of the law are doing their utmost to ensure that the law is not adopted, that they are preparing even a referendum, while at the same time explaining how they support the second track project. As the Secretary of State pointed out in the re-examination of the draft law on the home working body, the rejection of the law constitutes a hindrance to the implementation of the second track project, so the move of the State Council can only be understood as opposed to the realization of the second track project. In our parliamentary group, we have already said that after more than 25 years of waiting, the time has come for the construction of the second track of Koper-Divač to finally begin. We all agree that this is one of the most important infrastructure projects that will have positive consequences for the Slovenian economy, which is, according to the assessment of the Desus Group. The second track is strategically important for several reasons, as it represents an industrial vein linking our port of Cyprus and Primorsko with the rest of Slovenia and opening the way forward to Europe. As logistical trends are moving towards increasing shipping, including through the port of Cyprus, it is extremely important that we develop and increase transport capacity to carry cargo from port to world. However, in our Group of Members, we are also aware that the project carries certain risks that we are constantly alerting in our Group of Members. According to our assessment, the minister's team is working hard and looking for consensus both in the professional and civil society. We have already said that the Ministry has taken into account our calls to ensure maximum transparency and control over the implementation of the project. The law has thus been further monitored by the Court of Auditors, while at the same time a representative of the civil initiative will be included in the project and financial council, which will agree on the investment programme and financial plans. Also with regard to cooperation with the latter countries, a safeguard is provided in the sense that any possible entry of another country into the project will be made on the basis of an international agreement to be ratified in the National Assembly. This means that Members will have control over what the Western countries will require in return for the capital injection, and we can also refuse the participation of other countries if their demands do not seem appropriate to us. Members and Members of the Desus Group will be supported by a majority of the bill. We repeat the warning that there is no longer time to delay, as neighbouring countries are accelerating to build railway lines across Slovenia, which could have devastating consequences for our entire economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u19	Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If you would allow me a little bit of malice in the introduction, I would certainly be very proud of Kafka as we follow this process, and perhaps Mary Teresa would just wave her hand and focus on more important matters. If the project itself is one of the shorter in Europe, the process of its acceptance, placement and start of construction is certainly one of the longer, more spring snakes and is more similar to the one suitable for the construction of the Danube-Trieste railway line than the 27 kilometers that we do not know and cannot build for the last 25 years. In view of the fact that the project will be paid by citizens and citizens, regardless of the model chosen — including the one before us — it is therefore crucial, with or without the countries behind us, that, after years of placement and debate, what will be the most effective and best, we decide on one of the scenarios to complete this story and enable the Slovenian logistics industry to move forward. Of course, it is no secret that the Social Democrats wanted a different model of partnership between the state, Luka Koper and Slovenian Railways, because we estimate that it would be significantly more effective, and in particular to be more friendly to the state budget, as it would allow for a significantly lower required structural effort in the coming years. However, we do not want the traditional Slovenian folklore of pollen to be shown and continued at all points, and we want the second track project – at least concluding on the views of all parliamentary groups – to begin once because we all support it. How the project will be guided, what will be the financial structure, who will participate in it, is not quite known. The law is in its core, and this must be said, is crucial and necessary in particular in order to do everything we can to ensure adequate secondary funding, this is part of the European Union's grants, and financing through development banks. On everything else, both the Ministry and the Government, as well as this National Assembly, will have to take their key decisions and make their key moves. The rejection of this process, including through the referendum initiatives itself, if it is of interest that the completion of this project will take place, will neither slow nor halt, as Mr Dragonja, the adviser to Director 2TKK, said at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee; "if the funds of the frozen countries are not available, the remainder will be covered by the state budget". And I'm sorry to say that this is the most likely scenario. Social Democrats, as has already been said, want the dead-point thing to move forward and that the endless debate on possible scenarios, when we have an additional one every day, closes and the project begins to be implemented. And if two more steps are needed to obtain his resources, it may be better than doing one less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u21	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! In a request for a reinstatement of the law, the Council of State pointed to its many weaknesses and traps. They highlighted the unacceptable adoption of the law by emergency procedure under the pretext of applying for a call for European funds. They pointed out that only EUR 200 million was currently provided for the construction of the facility, that the acquisition of European funds is still questionable, that other resources or financial contributions from the hinter countries and the conditions are still, at least officially, a great stranger or a government secret. The State Council has also highlighted the fact that the value of the investment is still unknown. Last year, the Ministry ordered a rewind of the value assessment, and for the last 14 days after the State Secretary's visit to the field, we can read that a two-tier solution is being discussed and considered. With these and all other obvious laws, which we have talked about a lot in this National Assembly, it is most important that in Slovenia the construction of a second track can and should also be financed in large part alone. Why? The entry into the ownership structure of the behind countries is unnecessary and is also unacceptable in the way it is intended. Article 19 of the bill states that the second track will be owned by public railway infrastructure of 2TKK. The co-owner of the company will therefore also co-owner of the public railway infrastructure. It's a poorly disguised privatisation. In addition, we will pay eight million euros per year for the operation of 2TKK from the budget, an additional 24 million euros will be paid to 2TKK by Slovenian Railways, Dars and Luka Koper. We know all that. These funds will not only subsidise the construction and operation of the second track, but it is clear that one of the neighbouring countries will provide a 4.5% return on capital. Government representatives can say what they want, but the Hungarian Foreign Minister made their demands clear when he visited. When we proposed an amendment in the United Left to prevent such harmful and costly financing by involving the frozen countries, you opposed it in the coalition. Most of you also objected to our amendment to strengthen the control function of the project finance world, which at the end of the day shows that something in everything smells strongly and that you do not want any independent body to look under the hands of the government and the coalition — this and the future — in the execution of this project. The requirement for re-decision on the law is a valid last option to prevent this from being applied to the country of the harmful and also to the more expensive model of construction. The time to apply for a European call is sufficient, so this cannot and cannot be an excuse for the urgency and adoption of a harmful law, without at least changing in the work that talks about project control and without excluding the possibility of co-ownership of other countries. We will therefore vote against the law in the United Left. But since I still have some time, there's still an unwritten part to follow. So far, so much has been said about how it will subsequently be something else, then something else, then something in the third Brief, into the National Assembly all responsibility in one long mathematical inequality, because we don't really know all kinds of variables. [[...]] Mr President of the National Assembly began today by mentioning the Majnik Declaration, forgetting the original Majnik Declaration. This year at the end of May we will have the centenary of the Mayan Declaration of 1917. Key fathers would never support both the first and the second Main Declarations of such a law. Unfortunately, the late Spider would probably write something witty and gallant in this and such a marriage. At the same time, I would ask, Milan, that in the future, we are not somehow alerted by the executive branch to what our function is. In the United Left after three years in Parliament, we know what the task of the National Assembly is. And it would be fair to use the word SMC, that even when you read the views of a party to the coalition, you don't have to be alerted to what the task of the State Council is, because they know what their task is. We will vote against it again. Because we're responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u23	We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to a redecision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, IT'S FOR A REGULAR DECISION ON THE MARRIAGE LAW At its 28th extraordinary meeting on 26 April 2017, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Law on apprenticeship. In order to explain my request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Alojz Kovška. Is that right? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u24	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On the basis of its powers, the Council followed the opinion of those representatives of the economy, who are supposed to carry out apprenticeships or apprenticeships mostly, and on this basis, the procrastination veto. Two concepts were faced at the time of the introduction of the apprenticeship system. The first favoured apprenticeship as a form of working relationship with all aspects of labour law, while the second concept used to place employers as active educators and define apprentices as students. The Law on apprenticeship, as adopted, constitutes some kind of mix of solutions from these two basic concepts. The apprenticeship is introduced into four categories of educational staff: children with completed primary school, unemployed adults, adult workers with an apprenticeship, and employees who are apprentices with another employer. It is therefore a matter of intertwining the education of persons with a substantially different social and legal status and mixing the educational-andragog education approach. Instead of uniformly and transparently regulating the content of the educational process, which is unique in the way of acquiring skills in a special apprenticeship, the solution is aimed at a new form of working relationship for adults which is intertwined with the education of minors. Adult education can in principle also be regulated in the apprenticeship system, but only when it comes to obtaining competences in areas that are complementary to the already acquired competences of an individual, and in cases where an individual is susceptible to certain skills. Thus, apprenticeship is characterised by the fact that an educator acquires skills and links them to the theoretical content of the educational process. And that is why all age periods are not as suitable for acquiring skills, so apprenticeship is not suitable for all generations and not for all professions at all. Thus, the law, instead of treating the population to which it was primarily intended, is stretched over the structure of completely different persons. The adoption of legislation in its current form makes employers no closer to the role of equal participants in the educational process, unable to participate in educational resources and remain in a more passive role. Although the Chambers have a relatively strong role to play in the apprenticeship system, only as representatives of the interests of employers, not as representatives of the interests of professions, which is one of their fundamental social roles and tasks. The law clearly defines the content of the apprentice's activity in the apprentice's apprenticeship. Only those activities by type and extent as defined in the apprenticeship implementation plan certified by the competent ministry shall be permitted. The apprentice in the apprenticeship must therefore not be placed in the role of an employee, nor shall he perform works and tasks which are not foreseen by the apprenticeship implementation plan. Given the clear differentiation between teaching and work and learning and work, as set out in this Act, it is not appropriate for the apprenticeship education system to involve labour law or representative organisations of both employers and employees. And that's exactly what the marriage witness is doing. The specificities of certain activities such as: construction, catering, food activities suggest that apprentices in individual professions should exceptionally be trained at night, on Sundays and holidays, and on certain parts of the day off, but only under conditions as already stated in the apprenticeship contract. The law doesn't allow that. The law also requires that the apprentice's apprentice's apprentice's apprentice's prize be paid for a time when he is not trained practically with work due to excused absences. Given that the apprentice is not in a working relationship, his existence does not depend on the prize, so it makes no sense that he is rewarded for his absence. The law provides that the employer must provide the apprentice with reimbursement of the costs relating to the service journey and the field allowance in the same manner and in the same amount as the worker employed by the worker training the apprentice. This does not make sense because it additionally burdens the employer. It would make sense for the employer to bear all the costs of transport and nutrition of the apprentice, and certainly not to pay him extra for education in a dislocated apprenticeship. The law also provides in the transitional provisions that the State will, with the assistance of the European Social Fund, be in the transitional period of up to 31 years. 12. 2021 co-financed the cost of the apprentice award and the costs of mentors in the company and the cost of transport and nutrition. However, the law should regulate the financing of the costs of employers and educators systematically so that the costs of the employer are more fairly distributed between the State and the employers. For all of this, the Council of State proposes not to adopt the law in its existing form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u25	The request was addressed by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as the parent working body. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u26	Thank you very much. All right, everybody, welcome! At its 30th emergency meeting on 4 May this year, the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on apprenticeship submitted by the Government at its 29th regular meeting on 25 April this year. Following an introductory explanation by the representative of the State Council, the Minister of Education, Science and Sport presented the opinion of the Government and, inter alia, stated that she rejected the findings of the State Council as the Law on apprenticeship was prepared on the basis of a broad public debate. During the drafting of the law, the competent ministry has always coordinated with all the social partners and there has also been consensus in the coordination process. It explained that the introduction of apprenticeships is also, according to the European Commission's assessment, one of the key pillars for reducing youth unemployment and social exclusion and is therefore also crucial in terms of the labour market, reducing youth unemployment or the faster integration of young people into the labour market. In its presentation of their opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the State Council's arguments related to questions related to the assessment of the appropriateness of the legal regime, which are of a substantive nature, and therefore to those reasons and thus to the requirements of the State Council, the Service is not defined. However, if the night work requirement also applies to student apprentices, it has pointed out the provisions of the Labour Relations Act which prohibits night work by minors. In the debate, some discussers considered that they agreed with the proposed request of the State Council for Law Redecision, since it did not allow employers to play an equal role in education, and they were also prevented from responding too little by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as well as by the fact that the apprentice does not have any obligation to him after education with the employer. Others have said that they support the objectives and purpose of the law, that as the best possible compromise between employers and trade unions is to protect apprentices and give employers the opportunity to find added value in them, that the law will be effective in practice if trust is exercised among the participants in the process and that the systemic regulation of financial costs is clearly defined in the law. After discussion, the Committee adopted an opinion that the Law on apprenticeship was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u27	In order to explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker. Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u28	Honourable President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! We have often introduced the Law on apprenticeship — not only in the National Assembly, but also in the State Council, where the National Council of Law also supported the first reading. At the same time, of course, we have repeatedly coordinated all the opinions, interests, visions, concepts they had about apprenticeship and, of course, the search for a common solution, including all our stakeholders, all the social partners. I would like to point out that we have been very broad with them and that we have also tried to reach consensus through public hearing, which would not only aim at feasibility, but also at the quality treatment of apprenticeships in Slovenia, not only today, but systematically in the future. That is why, in our view, regardless of what has also been vetoed in the State Council, the basic and central work of all of us is to ensure the good, quality and, above all, the effective functioning of the apprentice-student triangle, or student-student, school and employer in the way that we place apprenticeships in Slovenia in a successful, effective and, as has already been pointed out, in the long term. The introduction of apprenticeships is also an assessment of the European Union, and also in accordance with its principles, one of those which gives the possibility of faster professional socialisation to young people in particular. This is also the basic purpose of the law. Professional socialisation can also bring faster placement to the labour market, while allowing employers to see young people in reality as an investment, as someone who is being raised, learns in a learning job and not as someone who just steps into and leaves the workplace. The concept of apprenticeship differs from the existing forms of dual education in that it is carried out more extensively in this so-called teaching place with the employer, so at least 50% of the education programme also means practical training. This is the largest share of such training in our educational programmes so far. I emphasize, students, students are in the status of students, students as they enter the apprenticeship. This also applies to unemployed or adults, whom we have had considerable discussions about, not only on the State Council but also on the Committee itself, as the President has already pointed out. What was also crucial in the discussion domain is mainly labour protection, which we must use not only in accordance with the legislation but also the conventions applicable to Slovenia and to which Slovenia has acceded, by protecting the young and at the same time providing quality training in a way that also provides a work reward. This was precisely the two key points of contention highlighted by the Council of State, and in particular some of the chambers, which also showed within the chambers that the interests of vision and the concepts of looking at apprenticeship are different. The law must bring first and foremost security to all those who are trained in it within the framework of the apprenticeship concept. At the same time, it must bring employers and, of course, also pupils, pupils with adequate responsibility for the implementation of the mentoring programme, as well as learning objectives that are the domain of the apprenticeship. This is the responsibility of both the school and the employer. Both will have a mentoring concept in the way we already knew it, but we will also design it in the context of the renewal of professional programmes. What is most important to all of us is that in the triangular school, the employer, the chamber operates confidence and responsibility, and that we also do not deter young people and their parents from entering the concept of apprenticeship. I think that this is an opportunity for all, both for young people, for employers as well as for Slovenia as a whole, in its social and, of course, economic growth, so I hope that we will also confirm the adoption of this law again in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u29	I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, for whom Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have been talking about the need for the Law on apprenticeship in Slovenia for a long time. The apprenticeship was already regulated in the Vocational and Professional Education Act between 1996 and 2005, but the implementation of this law by 2005 showed that apprenticeships in this way had not achieved their objectives, as young people had made fewer and fewer decisions about this form of education. In the Alliance and the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we have always stressed the need to adopt new legislation in this area. We are convinced that it is high time to listen to the demands of the economy or craftsmanship in this area. We have repeatedly expressed our expectation that the reintroduction of the apprenticeship system would bring young people back into the fields of secondary vocational and vocational education, for which there is currently no interest, but, on the other hand, by providing adequate staff on the labour market in view of employers' demand, these professions improve the economic development and employability of our young people. Although we supported the draft law at first reading in our parliamentary group, we continued to raise some dilemmas. Among them, as the most important thing for us is the proper regulation of the position of apprentice, which, despite the student status, is actively involved in the work process with the employer, for which he will also receive payment. So it is a mix of two statuses, which needs to be properly defined and defined. In our parliamentary group, we will support the Law on apprenticeship once again. We believe that the open questions raised primarily in the Chamber of Commerce are adequately answered. Both the pilot project and the practice will show whether any matter can be handled in any other way, better. We believe that positive results will soon be demonstrated, taking into account the opinions of all stakeholders, especially with the provision of good and qualified mentors, which are a condition for the success of the apprenticeship system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u31	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u32	Honorable President, Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! Today we decide on the recent request of the Council of State that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Law on apprenticeship. Let us make it clear in the introduction that the Law on apprenticeship is the best possible compromise that has been concluded among key stakeholders during the preparation of legislative solutions. In doing so, we think of employers as well as trade unions. All of us today know how difficult this has been, even though we have been criticized during the legislative process to propose bad and non-systemic solutions. These views were, in fact, diametrically opposite. On the one hand, we have heard that we give employers everything and apprentices nothing; on the other hand, we give the apprentices everything and the employers nothing. And it is these strongly conflicting views that are a good indicator of the fact that the law has followed the middle path that protects the apprentice on one side, that means that it offers him adequate education and thus social protection, while encouraging employers to recognize the added value in the apprenticeships in the learning and working processes that guide him. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! There is a social consensus to reintroduce apprenticeship, and it would be a great harm to have it crushed, and we would have started to implement it in the first place. It is important that all stakeholders involved in the apprenticeship system will be responsible for fulfilling their respective legal obligations. Perhaps a little more confidence among them would be welcome. Only then will apprenticeship be able to be successful in practice. The fact is that most of the views and comments of stakeholders have been taken into account, and so today it is so much more — although perfectly legitimate — that it is a bit unusual for us to decide again on the law we have adopted. Let us recall that, at its 49th session, the State Council has once supported the proposal for a law. We cannot help but overlook the fact that during the preparation and adoption of the Act of Shareholders’ position – in particular the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia – has changed nicely from day to day. This certainly is not a good trip if we all really want each other's apprentices together. And this is our criticism that we are reiterating today. Let us respond to some of the comments or views expressed by the State Council in the request for re-decision. Since all age periods are not equally suitable for acquiring skills, apprenticeship is not suitable for all generations and for all professions. That's what they're saying. Let us stress that the possibility of incorporating apprenticeship into the apprenticeship system in itself promotes the principle of lifelong learning and follows specific objectives: retraining, that is, acquiring new skills, obtaining secondary vocational education or further vocational and professional education. Let us recall that such solutions are also known in comparable countries with a well-developed apprenticeship system and that the possibility of carrying out apprenticeships in exceptional education in the draft law has in fact been included due to the needs and wishes of employers. We also point to Article 49 of the Constitution, which provides for freedom of work, which includes the right of an individual to education and completion in the exercise of a chosen profession. Last but not least, he could be a 25-year-old apprentice. Is it fair to deny him new knowledge and skills on this basis? The apprentice is adequately protected as a weaker party in the draft law, and so is the case. If apprentices were allowed to train at night, they would violate a number of international treaties and conventions that further protect minors. The apprentice, even the best among them, can get sick and believe that the responsible employer of such an apprentice will not cancel because he should pay him the remuneration of the apprentice's prize. However, in the event of serious health problems, he was, of course, given the possibility of cancelling the apprenticeship contract. Finally, during the legislative process, we adopted a solution proposed in Novi Slovenije that the apprentice would also have to give written reasons for the cancellation of the apprenticeship contract. Respected, the bill regulates the allocation of costs systematically and clearly sets out what is the burden of the State and what the burden of the employer is, so we do not agree with such flat-rate statements, especially since we know that employers will be adequately rewarded during the transitional period to promote apprenticeship. For some substantially too, for others apparently still too little. In the SMC Group, we believe that the law is good and, above all, feasible, so today we reiterate our unanimous support for it and wish it all the best in its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u33	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u34	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister with co-worker, colleagues, good-bye! Allow me first of all, President, to say that the position of the Chamber of Commerce in this law has not changed, as the predecessor of the previous Slovenian public has deceived him in reading the position of the Group of Members, who was obviously too poorly written to him. Allow me. In 2014 we actively joined the SDS Group in solving the problem of or reintroduction of apprenticeships into the Slovenian school system and, finally, into the labour system. We knew what happened to the apprenticeship system in 2006, when the craftsmen said that this story was no longer going on. And it is the craftsmen who, before the adoption of this law, find that they will not make the law known. In short, they will probably not go through this game imposed by the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education. In the last three years, we have tabled three proposals for laws amending and supplementing the Vocational and Vocational Education Act, which is a system law governing the field of apprenticeship. We were very afraid when we learned that the Mira Cerar government would take one chapter out of the system law and include it in a new law to increase the number of new laws. We were even more disappointed when we saw that all the burden was on the chambers, craftsmen, in short, on the employers, that schools had little effect on this system, and that the Ministry of Education – namely the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economy – had completely withdrawn from the law, except that their representatives would participate in one of the commissions that would check how the apprenticeship system works in practice. In the SDS Group, we will then vote against the law and the veto of the State Council because we know what the views of the craftsmen are, that is, the key holders of this field of apprenticeship and, last but not least, what is the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which allows me to quote it: "The laws must be clear, clear, understandable and unambiguous, and coherently incorporated into the legal order. However, the Legislative and Legal Service considers that, in the case of the proposal under consideration, these criteria are not followed by a legal proposal, since the text in some segments is incomprehensible and undetermined.” Then at the committee meeting itself, despite some editorial amendments, there was an even greater confusion in this area, as I quote the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service: "We have received certain amendments, which are mainly editorial in nature. Some of our editorial comments take into account some of them not. Above all, as has already been said, they do not take into account our more difficult comments." What, then, should be the travel of the Law on apprenticeship in practice if the craftsmen disagree with this law, and the legal profession in the National Assembly said that the law had huge shortcomings? We have also pointed out some shortcomings in the SDS Group. Thus, at the first reading, we tried to tell the coalition MPs and government representatives that we would take another month or two to make some law at least realistically enforceable, as the minister himself said at the veto, “We need a law that is enforceable, which respects legal standards and which introduces systematic and long-term apprenticeships.” Your Honor! We have before us a law that is not enforceable, which does not respect all legal standards, which deviates from systemic solutions and obviously brings only a short-term pir project and not a long-term placement of apprenticeship in Slovenian law, but especially in the real sector. And there are many other problems that this marriage brings and does not carry out as expected. The problem of this law being applied to the unemployed and the adults in the short term will only be a pioneer to reduce the number of unemployed in the records of one minister and the students will be nothing better than they have been before. [[…]] This programme will be directed only to some schools in pilot projects, which are likely to be selected by political key, so that Prime Minister Mir Cerar will work ahead of the next national elections. In short, for veto and against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u35	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, co-worker, all Members and Members of Parliament! At its 28th extraordinary meeting, on 26 April 2017, at the examination of the Law on apprenticeship, the decision of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a request that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decide again on the Law on apprenticeship, and we were somewhat surprised by the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. On the other hand, the requirement of the State Council is expected, as the concept of the law does not follow the aspirations of employers who are oriented through the eyes of capitalist views. In the Desus Group, we are disappointed that our economy is not willing to follow the path of common good. In spite of the renewed economic boom, when this economy is capable of creating 3.2 billion net profit net, it is incomprehensible for Members and Members to invest in the added value of their future employees. However, during the pilot project, employers will receive financial assistance from both the State and European resources to cover the costs of apprenticeship. We in the Desus Group see this so-called transitional pilot period as an opportunity for apprenticeships at all and the possibility of all possible identified shortcomings being addressed. Finally, employers, with the help of the State Council, challenge the prize for a apprentice who, by the way, is significantly smaller than what the German system gives. The apprenticeship form of education, which is governed by today's contested law, is, according to our assessment, a great help to the economy, as it brings high added value, which we see in the very fact that such a form of education will give exactly as a qualified person, as the employer will design and needs in his work process. And if the economy doesn't think it needs it, fine. But it will not use this option offered by the State and which was so desirable for years and years after its termination. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that apprenticeship can be a major contribution to the economy and at the same time to young people who will receive all the necessary practical knowledge and skills in mentors, i.e. all the skills needed to enable them to enter the work process on their own at the time of completion of education. This is also one of the points that employers like to point out. It is constantly heard that young people do not have enough or adequate practical knowledge that when they are employed, they need to learn. Today, employers refuse this option. They are also not prepared to train or retrain their already employed people, nor do they want to hear about the training of the unemployed. On the one hand, they want the high flexibility of the workforce, and on the other hand they are not prepared to contribute anything to the meaning of lifelong learning, which is now practically necessary. In the Desus Group, we are of the view that the proposed apprenticeship is the path of law, as it protects apprentices through the aspect of labour law, and we believe that this form of education, which the law provides, will not be another option for the already high quality of work in our country. On the part of the Desus Group, I thus announce full support for apprenticeship, as provided for by the law already adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u37	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In deciding again on the Law on apprenticeship, I would like to point out in the introduction that this law also does not introduce compulsory apprenticeship, but is optional, so it is not mandatory for employers or students. For only those employers who will have free apprenticeships and fulfil all the conditions required will be included. So, despite the law, we are likely to be far from the full introduction of apprenticeship in Slovenia. The debate on the branch of the State Council on the labour market has also shown that it will have a decisive impact on whether the pilot project will take a more permanent form of training, particularly the attractiveness of the professions for which apprentices will be trained. In this regard, we would also like to draw particular attention to the fact that the deregulation of professions in Slovenia, which has been required several times, even in this mandate, by the economy, certainly does not help us to prepare people more actively for jobs and to be better qualified, including through the apprenticeship process. In doing so, we would like to point out in particular the fact that the level of payment is also not one that would, of course, attract many young people to decide on this profession or on a particular profession and that they are also involved in the pilot implementation of the apprenticeship system. However, as this is an optional form of exercise of apprenticeship, we also note the problem that can arise in practice due to the uneven regional coverage of apprenticeships. This is why we expect the competent ministry to continue to try to ensure adequate access to apprenticeship by training those who want to do so to the extent possible right at home or near their home or residence, which, of course, also significantly reduces the cost of travelling or possibly even staying in other places. Otherwise, we see the most important reason why we will support this law, especially in that it will be a higher level of labour rights and, above all, a fair pay for honest work done by the best promoter for young people to participate in vocational education and thus also in apprenticeship. This is also the most basic reason for us to back up the Law on apprenticeship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u39	The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government coalition presents the proposed law as a recipe for reducing youth unemployment. But in practice this law does not provide new jobs. It only introduces a new form of leniency, so this time we will vote against the Socialists. Unlike employers' representatives in the State Council, we know that unemployment is not the fault of the vocational education system. Unemployment is a result of a crisis that has been strongly contributed by the very economic people. A small number of new jobs are mainly due to their inability to organise and market higher value added production. Our staff, for example, are easily employed in Germany or Austria and are considered to be good workers there. The staff of our technical schools are not lagging behind for co-workers who have been trained according to the model of apprenticeship. So the problem is not in school. The problem is management, which cannot use this staff better in Slovenia. And the problem is in the political class, which, by allowing for leniency, social dumping, non-payment of social contributions and other types of illegal exploitation, blocks the development of the industrial sector and the economy in general. Our vocational education system, it is said, is not so bad that it should be replaced overnight with some system that was shut down ten years ago. The real reasons why the government is forcing apprenticeships are elsewhere. On the one hand, it is clear that the Government is unable or unwilling to justify the use of European funds within the existing system of vocational schools. In particular, this government for each individual project, if we look only at Magno Steyr, the second track has been spoken about, it changes the system and invents warm water. On the other hand, the Government gives in to the gainful interests of employers’ organisations. Instead of getting a practical complement to vocational education, which is basically supposed to be apprenticeships, the coalition will legislate a new category of laxative work. This is reflected in all the essential points of this law, if I now limit myself to the essentials. After the calculation of the SOS, the average apprentice will receive only EUR 100 per month. The social contributions will cover the budget instead of the employer. After the apprentice's apprenticeship, the apprentice's employer will not have to work. So why would a company hire new workers if it could chain apprentices and thus get to a quarter of the free labour force? A third-year apprentice is certainly able to do most of the simple work and is inappropriately cheaper even than an agency worker. That apprenticeship is not only a practical lesson, but a new form of work is also based on the fact that apprenticeship status is not limited to students. After a new one, the employer, as an apprentice, will be able to hire even his own employee or to send them in the form of apprentices to other employers. Has the government calculated how many normal, safe, regular jobs will we lose because of their poor version of apprenticeship? He still understands employers who want to maximize their profits in any way, even in such a way that the apprentices work on Sundays and holidays to resist paying for field benefits and the like. It is difficult to understand, however, that the Government, which reportedly strives for decent work and the abolition of the segmentation of the labour market, introduces a new category of holiday employment. It's like we don't have too many forced espions and illegal agencies. And even when you subsidized self-employment and encouraged outsourcing, you talked about anti-abuse guards, and we see where we came from. And I'm afraid this apprenticeship law will have the same effect. Legal social dumping, which will not only affect apprentices, will reduce the standard of all employment. And it will not do us any good if we have the best technical staff in the world, because anyway, because of the widespread pretense and the perversion of wages, at the first opportunity, they will flee abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u41	The text is by the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat speaks.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, dear colleague and colleague! Instead of the introduction, let me ask all of us one question, given that we are celebrating the 28th anniversary of the Majnik Declaration today. Here in the immediate vicinity, the poet Tone Pavček read it. And the question is: What would poet Tone Pavček say today if he heard the opinion or position of one of the coalition parliamentary groups, which also read: "If the economy does not need this law, okay?"? In the basic programme of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, we wrote that there is a need for a closer integration of theory and practice in education, especially in secondary education and vocational and higher education. Vocational and secondary education plays an important role in the development of staff for the development of municipalities, regions and countries. We are committed to achieving higher levels of knowledge. Despite the general principle of support previously mentioned, Slovenian vocational and vocational education is still far from those objectives. This law was difficult to expect, and especially the Slovenian economy was hard to expect. We hear many times from economists that there is an increasing lack of professionally qualified professional staff, so the Members of New Slovenia also supported this law in the first reading, of course with a clear expectation that we will complete it in the second reading, improve it, correct shortcomings and illogicality. New Slovenia tabled a number of amendments that made sense during the course of the hearing, and unfortunately only one was accepted. Therefore, we can honestly say that we cannot support this law even now in redecision. The apprenticeship law will be good and beneficial only when we are fully able to implement or when it takes into account the interests of the students and, on the other hand, the interests of employers or those who want to train young people in this way. In the debate that we had on the committee responsible first, and then in the plenary session, I feel that we have actually forgotten what the purpose of this law is. What, then, should be the purpose of this law? To obtain at the end of education a well-trained young man or young woman who will be professionally qualified, who will have excellent skills, which will also have working habits, which will be responsible and eventually employable. Those who train the student will do their best to keep him if he sees that the young man or the young woman is good at his job. Some discussed how the apprentice would be exploited, how poor he would be. The law gives unions a strong role and strength in this model of apprenticeship. It's a good thing the apprentice gets the prize, but he also has to earn it with a good job. That is why in Novi Slovenija we were disturbed by the fact that the apprentice can even have a paid hospital allowance, which, of course, is paid by the employer. Practicing isn't like being employed. Employers, or their chambers, also object. Or perhaps we can expect a hospital allowance from this coalition for, for example, a student in general high school. In our view, there is too much opacity or confusion of status in the law. If we are talking about apprenticeship, let it be apprenticeship, and we do not have to rush into this marriage for the unemployed. These are usually adults who should be educated under different conditions. This is about the apprenticeship system, so it's about educating students. On the basis of the field visits carried out by Nova Slovenija – over 40 in the last five years of these field visits and we have visited more than 200 economic operators, micro, small, medium-sized enterprises – we can say competently that we know what the Slovenian economy needs and what policy should do, in particular the legislative branch of government, to make people more employable. We estimate that this law will not help, but will make entrepreneurs even more burdensome. For this reason, as has already been said, we cannot support the reinstatement of the Law on apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u43	We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to a redecision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in favour of that Act, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present and 56 votes against 19. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMENDATION RELATING TO THE PROBLEM OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE BREAKDOWN OF STATES, AGRICULTURES AND ENTERPRISES AND THE SUSTAINABLE REDUCTION OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENT IN SLOVANIA The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of 23 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mr Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u44	Your Honor! Overly bureaucraticism is one of the key problems that inhibit faster development and have a drastic impact on the well-being of citizens and citizens in Slovenia. For thousands of years, since the birth of modern civilization, it has been known to hold the following negotiations: There are more rules, less freedom for citizens. There's more rules. There's more red tape. There's more rules. There's more corruption. There are more rules, less legal security for citizens. In all the legal universities of the world, rights are also taught when they are familiar with these frameworks. Let's look at the statistics first. This one's scary. As far as we have been able to verify, we have been able to find that Slovenia is an absolute – and relative to the number of inhabitants – country with far most regulations at national level. In Slovenia we have one regulation at national level per 200 population. In numbers this means that we probably already have more because the government had several meetings in the past, but in early April of this year we had 834 valid laws in Slovenia and 19 thousand 167 under-laws at the state level, totalling more than 20 000 in a country with 2 million inhabitants. Maybe someone will tell you what's unusual here. Well, let's see how many regulations we had when Slovenia adopted itself and when we already had under the roof in this house of democracy the current Slovenian Constitution, at the end of '91. At that time, we had 357 laws and 872 regulations at the state level. The number of regulations at national level has doubled in this good quarter of the century, double the number of rules! For agriculture only, I believe that there are currently more than 4,000 regulations at state level. Tell me, who can be found in this bureaucratic jungle? And you will say, well, Slovenia was only born in 1991, then a new constitution was adopted at the end of the year, and the legal system had to be rounded up. Let's take a look at the year we've rounded up the legal system. It's 1994. At that time, we had 475 laws and 2 000 888 underlaws. Total less than 3 thousand 500. And the country was functioning, we had all our institutions and so on. And then maybe someone will say, and the government will write this in its reply, "a lot of rules had to be adopted when we went to the European Union." At the time of entry into the European Union and a few years later, when this legal and European corps was also rounding up, it was possible to need a new total of about 300, 400 regulations, but everything else is, I will say, domestic production for domestic needs. Now let's look at the consequences of this. At a time when the number of regulations has increased most, Slovenia has been the most lagging behind comparable countries in relative development. Let's see how Central Europe has achieved or tried to reach the European average at that time. Slovakia was a resident of 71% of the European Union's average gross domestic product in 2008, the latest total in 2015 was 77%. So at this time, they've made six percentage points. Poland came from 54 to 69%. The fastest development – Hungary from 63% to 68%, Lithuania from 63% to 74%, Latvia from 60% to 64%, Estonia from 68% to 74%, the Czech Republic from 81% to 85%, and we fell from 89 to 83%. Not only that, but in these words — overly bureaucratic — there are many or most of these causes. We can also look at the classification of Slovenia on the global competitiveness scale. Here we fell from 42nd city in 2008 to 59th place in 2015. I think that neither in the hall nor in this country is there any human in common sense to support the claim that the number of regulations currently in force in Slovenia is normal. That it is practically now necessary for every citizen to adopt his own regulation. We don't blame the current government as the sole culprit. We're talking about a condition that with rare exceptions has steadily deteriorated and now we're in a state or a number that's alarming. 20,000 regulations at national level. Laws and regulations. I doubt the entire Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana is in this legal chaos. And then there are consequences. About these later, because now is not the time. What should we do in this situation so that the situation improves? The first step to reducing excessive bureaucracy is, of course, debirokratisation. Various governments have adopted various anti-biocratic programmes at this time. With one exception, these programmes have given birth to more measures in terms of a larger number of regulations, a larger number of institutions established at that time, working bodies established to reduce red tape. And in the end, as this statistics show, also a larger number of regulations. The rules are necessary, the administration is necessary for the normal functioning of the country, but there are some limits here, there are limits and there are comparisons with other countries and with other regulated civilizations on the basis of which this reasonable limit can be established. And as has already been said, there is no country in the world that would have its own law or regulations on every 200 inhabitants. There's no such thing as hospitality. There is a need for a programme that will require that, whenever a new regulation is adopted, a few previous ones be merged, abolished, however, by at least two for one. A programme is needed to reduce the number of administrative institutions, labour bodies and everything else. I think it's urgent decentralisation. It is necessary to transfer the powers and funding of these powers from the State to the provincial and municipal levels. A complex package of this transfer is ready, but it's been in government drawers for ten years now. During the preparation of this meeting and the preparation of this material, which we are considering today, we had discussions with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber. This material also contains many of their demands, which have been repeated and largely unheard of in recent years. A number of proposals have come from these chambers recently, in recent years, in the years of this mandate, and a very small or practically minimal part of these proposals has been taken seriously, let alone realistic. What the attitude towards these proposals is, it is very illustrative of the debate at the previous point when this Law on apprenticeship was considered. When one of the representatives of the government said: “We think this law is very good for the economy. If the economy disagrees with this, then help God." What if we once listened to those who represent this economy, agriculture, craftsmanship and perhaps put some of what they propose to life? If already here in this temple of democracy, where elected representatives of the people are, deny to someone in this sense, if we already know what is right for you, if you do not agree, you can take pictures, imagine only the relationship of administration or bureaucracy when it comes to specific procedures, to these entities. I doubt they're better at such examples. In this paper we have mentioned a number of recommendations to the Government, a series of proposals, very concretely. Later in the debate, these proposals will also be presented more precisely on our part. The first thing that is necessary is that it is consistently required from the administration to respect the rule that citizens and also economic operators are not required to do the same again or twice. We introduced this rule already in 2006, and then the next governments scanned it and now again in many things the same thing is required again. Second year, same data, but it has to be re-sended and so on. Maybe a few more measures that don't have to be taken just to break the rules. For example: the tax returns, the valuations, should be extended the possibility of flat-rate taxation, which will save, introduce and respect the mandatory deadline for reply – if the citizen is one second late, his role falls. But we do have a number of institutions that say they have no deadline. The introduction of electronic vignettes, the abolition of these forestry carriers, one item for related expenditure in copyright, for example, and so on. And, of course, the key recommendation to the Government is to start working in this direction, because if the Government does not work in this direction, bureaucracy itself will not work in this direction, but it will work in the opposite direction. More regulation, more need for more administration and more staff in the administration. And more employees will again give birth to more rules and then we will come from a thousand in 1991 to 20 thousand in 2017, and people and businesses are choking on it. And if the government does not act against this move, then what has happened to the current government in these responses that we have received; with the exception of a few concrete and correct clarifications, most of these answers have been written by the administration, of course, written in this sense, why something cannot be done. And the most common argument in this sense, why something can't be done, is that they wrote that something can't be done because it's so specified in some law. It sounds like something that can be changed, of course. But if it wasn't led by the government, then don't expect the administration itself to act against itself. So the key recommendation to the government is to know. More specifically, later, when we hear the views of the members of the groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u45	Thank you very much. At its 48th urgent meeting, on 5 May 2017, the Committee on the Economy considered the Committee on the Economy as its parent working body. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mark Ferruga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the government's representative! The Committee on the Economy is at its 48th emergency meeting. 5. The draft recommendation submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Mr Tank with a request for a reference was considered as the working body. In addition to the proposal for a recommendation, the following material was submitted to the Committee: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 3. 5, the opinion of the Government of 5. 5. The amendment of the NSI Group to point 5 or new point 5 was tabled in the proposal for a recommendation. Representatives of the Government, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and, of course, the Legal and Legislative Service were also present at the meeting of the Committee. Ms Šimenko, on behalf of the applicant, presented the content of the proposal for a recommendation and presented the administrative burden issue. She considered that the administrative burden was too high and that this was true for all the areas listed, so she expects the Government to identify itself in all the proposals contained in the recommendation and to draw up an action plan on how to remove administrative obstacles in various areas, as they also affect the competitiveness of the economy. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service highlighted in her written opinion the need to edit the final text, as a preamble should be added. She pointed out that it was not necessary to eliminate the internal disharmony of the proposed solutions and said that the call for the Government to act in accordance with the Constitution was not necessary, as this was already the case with the Constitution itself. In the opening presentation, individual representatives of the various ministries presented key issues from their respective competences and provided information on the measures taken. Initially, the representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry also presented their views on the removal of administrative barriers and highlighted the issues and specifics of the areas they represent. Most of their proposals were covered by the proposed recommendation. In the debate itself, the problem of removing administrative barriers in all the areas mentioned above has been raised by the transmission of the same data to different institutions. The smallness of Slovenian farms and uneven development across different regions of Slovenia were noted. With regard to labour taxation, it was mainly pointed out that there was a high tax burden on development staff and the issue of obtaining different permits, long-term solutions to various problems, particularly in the area of agriculture. However, the three key challenges facing Slovenia for the next 10 years were: a poor business environment that does not allow the number of foreign investments, a high public debt because annual interest rates are more than €1 billion, and negative demographic trends that require certain reforms in the health, pensions and social system. On the contrary, some members and members felt that the Government had given good and comprehensive answers and that the findings regarding administrative barriers were too general, inconsistent to further increase the number of regulations and not vice versa. They have advocated the adoption of good marriage solutions and therefore do not support the adoption of the proposal for a recommendation. They considered that the Government had implemented a number of measures and improved the business environment, as economic indicators and, last but not least, foreign investments also show this. In doing so, they highlighted some examples of good practice for entrepreneurs, such as the e-VEM point. At the time of its consideration, the Committee, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, defined itself until the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats to point 5 and did not accept it. After discussion, the Committee voted on all parts of the draft act in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and did not adopt them. Since the points of the proposal for a recommendation on the home working body have not been adopted, it is, on the basis of the interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with the provisions governing the treatment on the home working body of the Commission for Rules of Procedure of 9. 12th, the proposal for a recommendation on the parent body has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Štravs Podlogar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for an introductory explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u48	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, you are most welcome! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the Proposal for a Recommendation on the administrative burdens of citizens, farmers and entrepreneurs, as well as on the continuous deterioration of the business environment in Slovenia, which includes proposals for the elimination of burdens, which, according to the material and proposers, are a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, are met by citizens, farmers and entrepreneurs. As the Government has seen that the issue raised in the proposal is very important, it has taken an urgent approach to drawing up views, although it has little time available and that some of the proposed measures and recommendations in the proposal are too general and difficult to identify. The Government has identified all recommendations or proposals for action in the proposal for recommendations, except up to 4. Points – up to the proposal for a timeline – as it considers that the Government's normative work programme, which the Government adopts for each year and is published on the Government's website, already shows a normative work plan and a timeline. The coalition agreement on government cooperation for the 2014–2018 term clearly outlines the programme vision and the starting point to which the Government is also following. The government is responsible and constructive, supports the implementation of activities to increase international competitiveness and economic performance in Slovenia and supports the reduction of administrative barriers in all areas. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government has proposed a number of legislative proposals and forwarded them to the National Assembly from the time of the beginning of the mandate. Some of the proposed laws and regulations are due to the harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the EU acquis, and some laws and regulations have been proposed with a view to simplifying and improving the rules or eliminating the anomalies and reducing administrative burdens. In the draft laws proposed by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly, the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law and the analysis of the proposals for solutions were clearly explained. The government is aware of the importance of both the government and the ministry of all the proposals and initiatives it receives by the economy and citizens being examined and responded to, either by incorporating solutions into legislative proposals or by providing an opinion. We also pay a lot of attention to the participation of the public in accordance with the Resolution on Regulatory Activities. The Government has thus already responded to the proposal's proposals and the drafters' initiative. Each department has carefully examined the issue of its field and has prepared substantive and reasoned definitions and views. They reflect the work done so far by the ministries or the government as a whole and also define further activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Ferruga will present the position of the Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u50	Thanks again for saying that. Therefore, reducing administrative barriers in all areas with the aim of creating a friendly, predictable and stable business environment is important for all. That's what I think we all agree on. The question is how and how. The government has its own way, the opposition has its own way. That this government alone is responsible for all obstacles and administrative burdens? It's not. That everything's wrong now, it's not true. Neither are the flowers themselves, but in the SMC we have written in a coalition agreement that we have signed with both coalition partners, SD and Desus to fight these administrative obstacles. Therefore, the Government also has a set of measures and proposals and, let us not forget, a reception timer which is clearly reflected in the normative programme of its work. And where are we today? I think we're on our way. We have encouraging results and very favourable macroeconomic forecasts for the economy. Not everything is in the government, and there are positive trends in the world, that is clear, but let us remind you of Umarov's very encouraging forecast for strengthening economic activity, with export and household consumption remaining key factors. The recovery of the economy is therefore becoming increasingly widespread. This year, 3.6% of gross domestic product growth is forecasted, which is 0.7 percentage points higher than the autumn forecast. The government of Dr. Cerar also attracts foreign investments. Remember Yaskawa, Magno Steyr, and there are others. The value of foreign direct investment or TNI in 2015 amounted to EUR 11.5 billion and 13% more than in 2014. The situation in the labour market is also improving faster and more markedly than in previous years. After improving employment opportunities at the annual level, Slovenia is forecast to grow 27% of net employment growth. We therefore have encouraging current situations and forecasts, but this does not mean that there is no room for improvement. Members of the SMC have been committed from the outset to improving the business environment in terms of simplicity, predictability, transparency, which will also increase investor confidence and of course consumers. SMC advocates a modern business environment for which we need stable legislation and a clear environment in which we live, and only the tax environment is important. There is no doubt, however, that the continuity of the business environment is very important, so that everyone can account for certain rules, not that they change from today to tomorrow. In response to the SDS recommendations, a number of measures are listed precisely by the Government and allow me to list them. Thus, as of 1 June 2016, the so-called SME test has been carried out to systematically prevent the emergence of new administrative burdens. They measure the impact of all emerging legislation on economic proposals, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises. Compulsory application of the assessment of the effects of regulations on the economy through an established application is also introduced for each law in the regular adoption procedure. The e-VEM website is upgraded and the job regulation project continues. Due to the issue of environmental and building permits, a recast of spatial and construction legislation is being prepared with the aim of reducing investment risk to the greatest extent possible and of facilitating the process of obtaining building permits. Thus, the Government is operating on its route and is taking measures for the Slovenian economy, the effects of which, according to the Ministry of Public Administration's assessment in certain segments, are already estimated at around 100 million. Members of the SMC believe that regardless of what the Government is doing, what it has done in the area of reducing administrative burdens and improving the business environment. Otherwise, some will never be well, nor will they by any means answer by action or by fact. Therefore, in the SMC Group, we will reject the SDS recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u52	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! Slovenia is often said to be another Switzerland, that we have the natural, transport and other potential to have a decent workforce, experts, but this breakthrough does not happen. Even if we compare ourselves with the Baltic States or the countries of the Multi-Garden Group, which have come to the European Union in a much poorer condition, it appears very poor. Slovenia is the only one in which purchasing power fell after 2008 compared to the average of the European Union, and if I say very simply, it means that the standard has fallen. The progress of these countries ranged between 4% and 15%, measured according to the GDP average, and Slovenia alone is the country where the achievement of the standard fell by 6 percentage points compared to the European Union. After seven, eight, nine years of hard work, after many photo-terms of different government presidents, we are the only ones who have collapsed. All the countries I am talking about, like Slovenia, have faced a global economic crisis, none of them has been spared, nor have they been spared by economic power. But according to Eurostat, they picked up more and more quickly. What have we done wrong, and what are we not doing right not to approach Switzerland but to distance ourselves from losing our fight with the Baltics and the Visegrads? Borut Pahor’s government, while Janez Janša’s second government, Alenka Bratušek and Mir Cerar’s government, have received similar receptions as our competitors or have they flaunted, paraded, torn up flags, waited for various trains and raised public costs? If we take a closer look, after 2008, only the other Government of Janez Janša went on to solve the problems, to take the right, comparable and effective measures, but what if the Pahor government was three years behind it and the government of Mir Cerar and Alenka Bratušek for a further four years. In the last years, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we were an opposition party, we have continued to put forward a number of proposals to simplify and reduce the functioning of the State and its institutions and to bring them into an acceptable, manageable and comparable framework with other countries, and to enable people and economic companies to carry out their ideas and projects more quickly, more cost-effectively. Unfortunately, all our proposals in the field of economy, agriculture, transport, education, social, judiciary and so on, which have suggested simplifying or reducing unreasonable, disproportionate measures, deadlines or penalties, have reached a similar conclusion to this proposal. When Cerar's government and coalition have decided as many times as they have so far decided that recommendations are not necessary, because the government is working effectively, that it has done much in between and that it has much to do in preparation, it is only necessary to let it finish the work in peace. Is that true? The proposals that we have tabled in the process are updated, updated proposals from the Chamber of Commerce, Agricultural Forestry Chambers, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and others, which simply means that everything mentioned in our proposals is still a problem. An open problem the government hasn't solved yet. This means that the government's opinion, which will be read and quoted by members of government's parties, is not correct not to respond to individual proposals from our material, but to general and bureaucratic concealment and confusion of the actual situation. But the writing and speaking of one, and the situation is quite different, we're getting used to it. At one of the meetings in the National Assembly at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, the current president of the Committee on Economy, Alenka Pavlič, came from the camp of the current prime minister, publicly identified the meaningful and necessary amendments made in the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, Employers' Association and others, bearing the title Kissik for the economy, defined the economy with ministro and wet dreams. And in fact, the proposals of the Houses in the times of all these left governments, including Cerarov's, were a wet dream for real-economy proponents. There was no respect for their suggestions. Few of them were implemented, and therefore the business environment was deteriorating, as well as the competitiveness and attractiveness of the location known as Slovenia. Which is logical, because everything was built on the satisfaction of the public sector, in which, in addition to providing adequate salaries, accelerated employment was carried out. Each new official and each new institution needs space, computers, pyars and judicial advice and logical forms for its work. Unfortunately, this mandate with such administrative receptions is no exception. We got the values and the carriers or the new bookkeeping document, the mandatory tree references above a diameter of 10 centimeters on construction plots, and the tax warehouses with which small producers were most affected, the small farmers selling on the markets. Perhaps much of this or most of this could be done in a different way — by changing standard costs or by higher flat rates, by a different dose of KD or by some other measure. Instead of letting people do what they know best, force them to fill out forms, burden them with additional costs for various advisory services, software suppliers and computer equipment. One of the major problems is the enormous, disproportionate penalties for minor, minor offences. In many cases, they are several times or even ten times higher than the value of the error. For a seller on a market or carrier, the penalty may be several thousand euros quickly, even higher than the monthly or even annual earnings, and there is no penalty for a bad banker or a criminal owner of state property or a buyer in the UKC. Even if you bring evidence to the U.S. Attorney's Office or the National Investigation Office, nothing happens. Usually only then do they begin to collect notices and then by studying them by guaranteeing that they are not yet able to process the matter, and so on. A number of things lie in drawers and old age, or when a matter is somewhat forgotten, a notice of withdrawal from the investigation is issued. In the worst case scenario, however, any relocation to a similarly paid position occurs to a regime official or an official, except in the event of a possible or even a deliberate procedural error. Therefore, no penalties, no procedures, no treatments, no property blockade or verification of the origin of the property, no cameras or special broadcasts in the largest media houses. However, if such a broadcast has already taken place, the choice of performing forces has been carefully made. This time there is a comprehensive set of measures ahead of you, where we have gathered in one document proposals from a small and large economy and agriculture, with their clarification. We have also added our proposals, proposals from municipalities, citizens, in short, many who face excessive red tape and non-life normative obstacles daily. The proposals cover all vital areas – from taxes, facilitations, uniformity of forms, placement in space, response of the state and its institutions in short, a comprehensive set of open questions is prepared, which should be answered as well as solutions within the deadlines we have proposed. [[…]] Unfortunately, we are once again witnessing the classic response of all left governments and coalitions in the National Assembly. None of the hundreds of proposals are worth the attention, and all four recommendations have been rejected. Governments such as the Mira Cerar government are simply saying that they want a successful economy and satisfied people, but in practice they have done and will do everything to increase bureaucracy, to establish new offices, to regulate your family life to the smallest detail, to ensure that the work will be properly serviced by various social transfers, that they will always have enough paid propagandists, that banking crime and crime in the management of state property will remain unpunished and so on. However, good and working people will be exposed to forms, inspections, high penalties and media killings in the abuse of state institutions, and their minor errors will be identified as the most terrible tax evasion and illegality, thus proving to be accurate, bureaucratic picolitics in their work. Of course it's not an accident. This is the systemic approach of all left governments. In the case of Goran Klemenčič, the so-called ethical authority of KPK found that his work at KPK was infected with suspicions of illegality, the Court of Auditors found and proved to him a number of violations of the laws, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court annulled him for violations of human rights to persons in proceedings, but he became Minister of Justice of the Government of Mira Cerar with an important staffing function in the judicial system, while his kinship was still heavily involved in the service of state property and public resources, but there was no doubt as to what else the investigations into property were. In other cases, such as banking crime or health - care crime or elsewhere, things do not go anywhere. In its response, the Government has called for its achievements, particularly in court, with not a single word on the cases that have been abolished in our courts or in the European Court of Human Rights, even in cases that have been politically launched and have eventually failed. Despite the thanks of the Government's proponents of this meeting, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group and co-signatory, as well as the representatives of the material – municipalities, citizens, chambers – we do not see these achievements in the same way as the Government. But there'll be no mistake. The answer is essentially the continuation or upgrade of that official fairy tale, which she wrote a few months ago in response to the Government's interpretation of the government, in which we told her that she did not fulfil the commitments of her coalition contract and her normative programme. And indeed they are not; there are no reforms, the dates are shifted; every promise of the covenant is broken the next day. Just look at the words of the President of the Government and the Minister of Health, and there are no rationalisations yet. As far as de-de-barcation is concerned, the situation is the same. Let's just say the solutions with the registration of the old mopeds. Unfortunately, this government and coalition can easily find money and consensus for the most controversial and incomplete projects, such as the second track or Slovenian state forest company, either for overstandard migrants or for the comfort of some unions or to stimulate the cheap sale of Slovenian brands to ad hoc companies in tax havens. By no means can he find a few million euros to improve the conditions for the economy and agriculture or for citizens or taxpayers, which would stimulate investment interest and do something for the welfare of citizens. This would reduce the dependency of citizens on the various social transfers shared by CSDs and labour offices, and in both cases the Social Democrats are staff-controlled. Do you have any idea what we could do to enable citizens and businesses, if there were no overpayments, evasions and abuse of TEŠ 6, which should actually be half the price? According to some estimates, TES 6 has lost as much money as investment in state roads in a four-year government mandate together. Only an annual loss amounts to around €60 million, which will be covered in one way or another by public and private resources, and represents an additional one-third loss of state roads. The last bank hole swallowed 10 times more, nothing else will happen at the second track. In such cases, all government decisions are taken very quickly. The coalition in the National Assembly is following this. Unless it goes otherwise, even a special law is drawn up. But when it comes to us citizens, it is the deadline, and the deadline, and the addition, and the silence of the body, and the whole range of obstacles that are being handled at many meetings, are not moving anywhere. Perhaps it would indicate in the near future that this delay of state institutions would be a special meeting. What could be offered for this stolen money to the economy and agriculture, how many new jobs could be created that would reduce social distress and dependence on various state institutions! How many additional resources would drip into the pension and health allowance to increase GDP and so on, a whole range of issues. In order to start over again the Baltic States, the state of Visegrad, in order to become the second Switzerland, we must do something on our own most and first. This is our duty, and this is our right. And it needs to be used. The only hope that the economy, real jobs and prosperity will become seriously dedicated is political change, government replacement, its replacement with one that will put market mechanisms and approaches at the forefront, which will relax and simplify the regulatory system that will start with restructuring, integration and rationalisation. That the administration will become what we all expect of it – the service of citizens and the economy. And the only party with sufficient will, knowledge and power is the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the end, let me thank all those who helped us prepare the material and also those who gave the signatures. We will continue with our proposals, we will include them in our programme – they are already included – and then we will upgrade them into the pre-election programme, and I hope that soon there will be a time when not only wet dreams will be discussed but real changes will take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! Allow me to give you a brief introduction to Desus' position. We understand the recommendations in the Desus Group as nothing more than the opposition's apparent work so far. No area of work is an exception, and in some ways, in our view, the entire coalition treaty is being undermined. The motioners recommend to the Government that in the last year of its operation it show all its results, which is, of course, correct at the final stage, but not that it develops an economic and social policy in a way and under the conditions to take into account all these unrealistic ideas, and that I be allowed here to say, of course, even the opposition's pleasing wishes. Hand to heart, there is no need to put too much effort into drawing up three pages of recommendations without any concrete consideration as to the consequences of the adoption of an individual measure. Clearly, this does not seem important to you; it is only important that the measure is liked enough and will satisfy certain partial interests without any analysis or concrete financial calculations. In our Group of Members, we believe that it is relatively easy to make and create the country's social and economic policies in its own way, thereby reducing a large number of different rules. This is, of course, to be honest, much easier if a Member sits in the opposition's parliamentary benches, while already on the first few pages of the explanation, he writes down some positive statistical indicators that speak in favour of the recovery of the country's economy and are the result of the functioning of this current government. It is true that the economic picture is quite optimistic, but not so much so that we can relax the mahomo completely all austerity measures, which, of course, could also mean a negative domino effect. The result of the reckless, I'll call it partial decisions, it can only be a total collapse. These issues need to be addressed — unfortunately but realistically — gradually, with careful consideration of all possible effects, as is the case with this government’s actions. In doing so, of course, I stress this in the same breath, it is necessary to have a clear objective: first and foremost, to help those who are of course most in need. This time you have chosen a different path and you have taken the matter a tiny thread, without some systemic solutions and real awareness of the consequences for the economy, as well as wider. This is a bit of demagogic behavior that we see in the Desus Group as concrete preparations for the elections. It is more than obvious that the fight for the electorate has started among the various opposition parties, as each fights in its own way and strives for the largest possible electoral base. We are witnessing a continuous flood of marriage proposals and similar recommendations, such as this one to the Government, which is approaching in a very popular way, we must acknowledge this, either to the individual interest group or to the groups. Thus, some are suddenly concerned about the situation of pensioners, but nothing before that, others would contribute slightly more to the social situation of families, some would try to improve conditions in agriculture and in rural areas and so on and so on. It seems that the only goal is to show us, coalition Members, are indeed some very critical of this or other move, that is to show us as socially insensitive politicians, insensitive people and thus gain support. We could also discuss in a nice way, beautifully said, if I may say so for several hours and more days, but the facts are those that speak more and more strongly than promises and words. It is true that not all measures taken are public likes, especially when we only look at them for a short period of time. I'm going to point out, even though this may not sound good to anyone, the introduction of tax boxes. We needed a lot of time and energy to inform people, inform the general public, and try to convince them that the word tax is not such a taboo, and also tax box is not taboo, especially for those who work honestly, issue bills, and those who actually have nothing to fear. In this place, of course, we in Desus agree with all of you in the work, when you say that it is necessary to create and only then to share, since, however, the state treasury and the treasury local communities and both the steam room are charged with the collection of taxes and contributions. In this way we are also the creators of a just and successful country in both the social and economic fields. In our parliamentary group, in the Desus Group, we have tried to make it and that tax policy will be as fair as possible and not at the burden of the weakest. We will always be willing to admit that if we have broken it, that is, all our mistakes, especially listening to the voice, the experience of the field. Thus, we have been the proponents and advocates of setting exceptions for small taxpayers, such as pensioners' societies, and, after the adoption of the law, we have further amended the rules of the field – unfortunately also the rules as a sub-law, which is here, and not only in this law, of course, necessarily evil. So in the Desus Group we know and can listen to and help more vulnerable target groups and relieve and do not interfere with the business environment. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In Desus, we have never spoken, we never speak, and we will never speak, and we will not advocate bureaucracy and unnecessary administration, which for the unnecessary soul of both the individual and of course the economy. It is only necessary to carry out the objectives outlined in a consistent manner, and many are under the common denominator of the so-called removal of administrative barriers, and we must not invent warm water every day, but must – and this is also the case for the executive branch of the authorities – use at least a little empathy and common sense in everyday work and tasks. Such a positive result in terms of lower administrative burdens on people and businesses, of course, cannot be missed. Following the recommendation in the Deus Group, we have already rejected the recommendations at the examination of these at the home work body and, of course, we do not change our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Bacič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, welcome to the hall! Proposals to improve the business environment and facilitate business operations for businesses, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers are always welcome. This is true, of course, in the event that the applicant recognises the real problems and, above all, that he has concrete and feasible solutions for them. In view of the drafting of today's recommendations, however, we cannot help but feel that more than the well-intention of the proposer to adopt substantive solutions for debarcation, we are looking at one of the political episodes of preparations for the elections, which will be more and more at this time. At the same time, we recognize the ingenuity of the proposer, who by his recommendations skillfully outsources part of the deal by imposing it on the Government. With all that we have the power to see — overly and ineffectively — the preconceived bureaucracy in our country — we must not avoid these debates even if they are driven by wrong motives. On these pressing issues, I think, all knowledge, arrogance and underestimation are completely superfluous. I therefore hope that, on these issues, we will leave some political accounting and search for the culprit today to the greatest extent possible and focus on solutions. Not for us politics, but for people. The strategic orientations and objectives of debirocratisation are, of course, necessary, and the path through which we reach them is equally important. And in this situation, there is a call on all those responsible to initiate, conduct and conclude a thorough debate on long-term objectives that go beyond the mandate of one, two or three governments. To put it simply – The government, too, should do more to involve everything, including the opposition, in planning everything that matters in the long run. We cannot just leave this to professional writers of strategies for one term, so that even at the end of this term we do not know where we are going, but we are proud to travel more and more quickly. However, the opposition must also do its constructive work and have not done its best in this proposal. She made a flat-rate assessment that everything was bad. She's made a wish list and now she wants the government to respond to it. And he did. We can see that in most cases we are going in the same direction, we are only different in a few basic concepts. In fact, we can see that most of the goals can be agreed upon. It is more confusing than the inconsistencies that the applicants like to cite in any and very diverse subject. Lower taxes, where do we make up for the deficit? There's no idea. That they always want fewer permits and regulations by the time something goes wrong. The high taxation of labour is such a constant observation that we receive from the conservative right and neoliberal capital. That they do have a smaller margin between gross and net amounts in other countries, but it is often forgotten that we are reluctant to compare ourselves with many of these countries. Or even more — let us mention them when we show what we do not want. For example, when the smaller difference between the net and the gross amounts is shown several times in poor public services. I am aware that someone will suggest to me that it is for this very reason that an individual can afford to search for these services in private. However, this mathematics is not simple, it is often completely misleading and goes to the mill to those who, at the expense of privatisation first turned public services into less quality and much more expensive private services. On the other hand, we have high-paying countries with a good public sector network, which is expensive or in combination with private claims, additional resources from individuals for the same service due to lower taxes. Slovenian contributions to work income may be much higher than other countries, but, as an example, Slovenian public kindergartens are among the best in the world and for the user among the cheapest. The right hand often says that people are not paid to work, but it aims to achieve too high social assistance in their opinion. We have repeatedly said and said again: People are not poor because of taxes and not unemployed because of social assistance, people are not paid to work because wages are too low. This is regulated by employers, those employers who, in view of the introduction of this proposal, consider that Slovenian workers are productive, well-educated and qualified. Thus, as is expected in a developed country based on well-rewarded knowledge rather than on poorly paid labour. That is why we must tell the applicants clearly and loudly – no, you cannot have it all at the same time. Low taxes, cheap and quality kindergartens. Things can be good, fast and cheap. But not good, fast and cheap at the same time. Unfortunately, practice shows that we can only choose a combination of two of these three. Otherwise, what is a trap and a holding of pre-election time, we have long-term costs, cutting, and great disappointment of people. That is why this debate requires a great deal of responsibility to people, so that we, the politicians who want to be liked, without making accusations, can tell them clearly and loudly that debarcation is a process that needs to be cleaned up by 25-year-olds and unfortunately requires more effort than just a blacklist, what is wrong. In addition, I would like to add that we need to separate grains from weeds; that we have problems of debarcation, which require only a few healthy farmers to be removed, that we have systemic problems of debarcation, which require thorough interventions into the social structure and where the smallest deviation from the desired can cause enormous damage, and that we have problems that are convenient for policy to use effectively to enforce its doctrines, which do not have much in common with the well-being of most people. I hope that today we are not on the ground of this third category and that the summary of the multi-annual debates will not only be yours and ours but concrete substantive conclusions that our people will be better off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček will present the position of the Joint Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice hello to you all! The recommendation under consideration is mainly a recipe for the continuation of the periphery of Slovenia within the existing model of political economy. In most cases it is a summary of the demands and wishes of the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise with logic that we need as much wild capitalism as possible, and in the race to the bottom each one should be found alone as he knows and knows. In the United Left, we strongly reject this harmful and brutal logic. A logic where we can't talk about patriotism if I use the proponent's vocabulary. It should be made clear, however, that the SDS is proposing to the Government of Mira Cerar a recipe that the coalition with a few different doses follows fairly faithfully. Let me just mention a few cases. The Government of Mir Cerar has liberalised the funeral activity, deregulation of the market for petroleum derivatives, granted twice the tax leave to the best paid at €80 million, deregulation of trade professions, against the will of the people signed the CETA agreement and wants to continue to privatise or sell out a number of companies through SDH if I stop here. Under which of the indents of the recommendation could they also be signed in the United Left, which must be honestly said and acknowledged. In some cases, certain procedures could be regulated without excessive red tape and administration or without a number of sub-legislative acts and regulations, which are too often harmful for the majority of the society and the country, or serve only the interests of a handful of individuals with successful lobbying at specific ministries. But where does the increase in regulations and administration, shown statistically by the proponents, come from? The increase in regulations and acts is due to the very predatory Slovenian paide capitalism combined with the already mentioned logic of the political economy, which is clearly also strongly advocated by the proponents. The school case is the labour market. As long as the central form of an indefinite-term contract and a more secure contract was needed for a certain period of time, much less regulation was needed than today when we have agency work, work through forced especies and other forms of penitential work, that is to say what is called a flexible labour market in neoliberal jargon, and simply exploitation of workers in human language. The second aspect of bureaucraticism is what the entire political esteblish without question, with an exceptional United Left, thus values or blindly believes in it – the European Union or, if I am more precise, the European Commission and to a large extent the interests of the lobbies represented by it. Many of the legislative changes they impose are harmfully defended and also misunderstood by our political elites, directives, European directives are unnecessary, pointless and often very harmful to Slovenia. They give even greater powers to capitalize on people and destroy the environment. Bureaucratation certainly places more burden on craftsmen, smaller entrepreneurs than large business systems. From a development perspective, however, development is only very problematic through the development of the small sector. I'd say personally, even wrong. Why? We've had a major economic collapse. The sector of small and medium-sized enterprises employs about three quarters of all employees. The small sector is less productive than large. In Slovenia, for example, in 2012 productivity measured by the added value to the employee was less than a third lower in small and medium-sized enterprises than in large enterprises and in micro-enterprises more than half. The small sector is not and will never, as I have said many times before, be able to drive development. It is of course very important, but as part of a common economic structure, as part of growing within a smart specialisation, if I may say a little too much for someone. Technological development and progress are being driven by large companies in cooperation with the scientific research sphere, which has been neglected for too long. Large companies depend on the entire value chain, but the country does not develop them in us, but simply sell them out. In Slovenia, for more than a decade – from the first Janša government – there is a process of decommissioning capital and people with high incomes and, on the other hand, the burden of the remaining majority. Since 2005, governments have been reducing corporate income taxes and high incomes while at the same time increasing excise duties and VAT, so the profits of capital and wealth of the richest are increasing and labour standards are decreasing. Despite the increase, Slovenia still has a very low rate of corporate income tax, a serious high value tax and a capital income tax. The effective tax rate for companies was only 15,5 % in 2015. The EU average is 21.1. Since 2005, the effective rate in Slovenia has decreased by 6.5 percentage points because it is a record reduction. If we add to this the non-discipline of payments, including the non-payment of taxes and even the contributions of employees, which can be afforded by governments and coalitions in the past 20 years or, I will say, by adding to this the breakdown of control systems in this society and the country in the last 20 years, we are where we are unfortunately. TES 6, second indent, pensions below 60% of the salary, youth unemployment, understanding the state as prey of each government and coalition. The alternative to this logic and processes that push Slovenia to the periphery is that much of the SDS recommendation is to turn largely to the head to do exactly the opposite of what they propose. What? The State reactivates its policies and its soft infrastructure, in particular in education and science, to ensure, through fair tax reform, that capital and the rich contribute more, and that these resources are used for development, that serious supervision is introduced and that inspection services are not intended for themselves, and of course that work and those who co-create it begin to be respected. Only in the medium and long term will the productivity of the work be increased and wages can actually increase. However, the long-standing problem of poor governance can also be solved by giving more words to workers and workers and local communities. It is interesting that it is in the workplace that those who follow the example of the countries north of us, where such forms of economic democracy are much more developed, turn to both eyes. And also in community ownership forms, including bank ownership, even though they know it. Regrettably, the recipes proposed by the proposer mean much more ulcer on the stomach and, in the medium term, an increasingly empty stomach. More in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Matthew Tonin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u60	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Slovenia is an average country, and the government says it's okay. Do you still remember when we were the best inside the socialist bloc? We have already been overrun by both Czechs and Lithuanians, Estonians and Poles. Even athletes know if you want to be a real champion, an Olympic or a global champion, and then in some area you have to shine, it seems that in some way, at least the government, we were put to sleep by this averageness. If you are average, then you are no longer on the radars of the European Commission or other institutions that would warn you all the time that something is wrong with your system. But in the long run, it can lead us to destruction. To avoid saying that the opposition speaks in general, let us take a look at some very specific cases. For example, in Slovenia, wages are overtaxed, and we compare them with, for example, developed Ireland. If, in Ireland and Slovenia, the employer spends EUR 500 per employee, do you know how much the worker will get in Slovenia and how much in Ireland? In Slovenia, out of these thousands, 500 workers will receive 900 euros in their own account, and in Ireland, a thousand 200, the difference is 300 euros. These are the differences we're talking about. That we have impossible accommodation in the space, the government has practically admitted itself, because for an investment near Maribor, in Hocá, Magna has fully adopted her law. If our housing system worked well, as it was supposed to be in an effective country, then certainly we would not need a special investment law. I think it is this law that has pointed to the entire misery of our spatial legislation that clearly some investment in Slovenia cannot be made quickly. If we go ahead and look at the taxpayers. For 124 euros, which the citizen does not pay in the discharge of the cemeteries, his house is taken away. On the other hand, you have a lot of companies that don't pay contributions to their workers, which makes it impossible for these workers to retire, and nothing happens. Even more, do you imagine that contributions are not paid to workers in public administration? Such an example is the case of Topolšica Hospital. A truly unique example from the state! With regard to unpredictability and constant changes, I could tell you what kind of accountant or accountant. Things are changing so quickly in this country, not to the positive, but they are further complicated that practically one small accounting service should have someone who would constantly and constantly read and monitor changes in the law and the official list. This is certainly not good for the predictability of the business environment. And too much standardization and red tape. I come with villages, if you like, from farmers. Now things have gotten so complicated that simply some young farmer, the takeover who took over the farm, would be the best thing to do in addition to hiring another lawyer to interpret all the regulations and to do everything in accordance with what the state imposes on him. If we look at these cases, we find one interesting feature. When it comes to small fish, the country is accurate to the last branch, but when it comes to large fish, nothing shocking happens. And apparently the big fish are looking through their fingers like this, and it's okay. How is the governance of the country running, and what should be the subject of this extraordinary meeting today? However, Parliament, which we are in this country, sometimes rightly, is to blame for everything, but in particular we Members are a good driver for all dissatisfaction.Sometimes I say that those who see the problem of being Members of the problem should be told that Members of every citizen in one year are worth four euros. [[…]] If it solves Slovenia, O.K., I'm the only one who doubts it. So Parliament adopts laws, and the government is the one that implements them. For this, the administration, the public administration, which helps it to implement all these laws that we adopt, is also in a position to do so. At least that's how everything is cool in theory. But where does it get so complicated? It is complicated there when we can have a super law, super articles, uniquely written, but things start to get complicated in small details, and this is by means of sub-legislative acts and regulations that this Parliament does not adopt, but are written by officials and confirmed by the Government at its meetings. And it is in these matters that things are impossible, irresistible. I often speak a concrete, very banal case in the Environmental Protection Act, where the law can be purely fine, but the sub-laws have introduced such bureaucracy that two municipalities, even if it is rational, even if it makes sense, should not build a common centre for collecting municipal waste. In some cases, we came to such an absurdity that Drava was separated from the congregation and Drava was built by a congregation on one side and Drava on the other side by a congregation on the other side, as the regulations commanded. Submarital, of course. As a Member, I have been fighting since 2012, and I have been writing parliamentary questions about this matter to change, and in all these years until this year officials have been explaining to all ministers that it is impossible to do so. Now, thank God, obviously, when the story was slightly reversed, when a law came into this parliament that would solve this thing, then a political command came to pass. What do I have to tell you? I would like this country to have a government to send officials to look for a solution to a problem, not to have ministers who come first to tell us – I am telling Members – that something cannot be done. Of course they're convinced by the officials. And another interesting thing. Ministers and Members are exchanged every four years. We come and go, you know who stays? Officials. I believe more and more in the House Mayor, who once said in the State Council: “This country is run by a second and third level of officials and by-laws.” Only we're not in place to yam. We've probably been sent by people to this place to try and solve certain problems and act. And here it has scissors and canvas and the highest possible government and also a government coalition. So that when the first official comes with an answer, not that he will be sent back – not with no, but what options and solutions are. In these days, the government has said that the independent office of Umar has issued a special publication, the Long-lived Society Strategy. In the past, some proposals for Slovenia have also been made on the European Commission. Other institutions, including the OECD, study the situation in Slovenia, recommend certain things. But whoever is working with Slovenia or within Slovenia or outside, in some way all these institutions share three recommendations or three points. One is that we have a poor business environment that needs to be improved, the other is that we have a high public debt that needs to be reduced, and the third is that we have negative demographic trends that need to be addressed. With regard to the poor business environment, if we compare ourselves with other countries again, we are the worst in the area of wage accommodation. I would like it not to be because there have already been some debates in the past on the committee in this direction, czech, the opposition can, but you just recommend saying what is wrong, say some other solution. [[…]] I'm going to try and strut some. At least as far as the pay is concerned. If it were the basic leadership of this government that every employee was a double benefit for the country, we would have taken a big step forward. If we only knew that everyone who is employed paid contributions to a health and pension allowance while at the same time not having to make certain transfers to the country from any social register, we would really understand that it is a double benefit or, if we do, double the harm if anyone is unemployed. Another rule, which is almost blasphemous and very difficult to break with in this House – in order to be able to fill the budget with a smaller tax. What is on the left side of Parliament is completely out of the box, impossible, much more difficult has been said on this account, but we claim that with smaller taxes it is possible to collect more. Of course, if taxes are too high, then there are several questions: With or without an account? Then there are a number of such cases that the minimumer is officially involved in an envelope or even working in black. Therefore, we claim that with lower taxes, the country could collect more and also have more employees. But the basic thing about work is that work has to be worth it, work has to be worth it. And many, when we walk on the ground, warn us that work in Slovenia is unfortunately not worth it today. When someone is calculating what he can get from the country if he stays at home, and if he predicts that he should go somewhere to work for a minimum wage, the calculation is very easy — to stay at home. Therefore, in Nova Slovenija, we argue that it is also for money from social bags or social funds that something needs to be done for it too, so that it cannot be automaticism, but something must be done for this public money. The municipalities have a lot of things to do, including the state. Of course, I speak only in cases where there are no health barriers. In case of health problems and obstacles, there is another story. But if a healthy person is jobless, then the absolute rule we have to establish is that it's worth doing. It's about putting it in the room. Let it guide us that legislation is good when we do not need specific laws to place it in space. Above all, the State should respect its own rules. The State has written down in some documents and also in legislation that its offices, the agencies, will answer, give their consent within 30 days. On this 30-day deadline, a lot of people are buzzing. And when the municipalities are able to adopt municipal spatial plans within two years, then I will be the first to say that we have absolutely the right legislation, as far as placing in the room and also the law. But there's still a long way to go. With regard to public debt, which is also highlighted by a number of institutions, this is a Slovenian problem, as the trend has been clear since 2008, when we owed 22% of GDP, to date, when we were at 80. There is a big difference and only interest takes away a tenth of the budget. We could almost build two thirds of TES 6 each year with what we give for interest. Of course, there is little to be said about public debt. Here, even I will agree with the socialists that indefinitely tightening the belt does not work, that it also has negative consequences. And in order to reduce our public debt, we can only do this by making more people work and by making more people work, because more than they will be employed, there will also be more contributors to pension, healthcare and, finally, more people who will have the opportunity to spend and thus pay taxes. Of course, I think it is important that we achieve this, but we must make two urgent changes. One is the public sector and the other is labour legislation. As far as the public sector is concerned, many say that this is the first obstacle to the realization of your idea and should be first aid. Many are telling us about the comparison of the operation of Koroška, if you like, Austrian public administrations and Slovenian public administrations. They come up there to ask you what they can help you with, where else they can advise you, and they're doing some inspections with us. It is necessary to create a system where all officials will not be paid the same. Today, I will dare say, sloths as well as those who are working in the public sector are paid the same, and this is certainly not good in the long run and demotivates all those who, however, are doing well in the public sector. We are also in favour of paying in the public sector, not to this extent, depending on how long you have been in the system, but, above all, what you have done in this system. As far as labour law is concerned. A great deal of movement will be made if we settle matters in such a way that fraud companies who cheat on workers are immediately closed and shut down, especially those who abuse such things in order to prevent them from setting up another company. You have a Slovenian record – someone who cheated on workers, paid no contributions, zero and had more than a hundred companies set up. This is clearly a business opportunity for some in Slovenia and this is the first thing to stop in labour law. I remember, once on one committee, when we considered that if this inspector twice got you to commit a very large and serious offence, twice they had to get them so that they could not have a business, they should not have opened the company for more than 7 years, and the officials convinced the government and the minister that two years was the maximum possible. It's not right. We want people in particular to be better employed, which means easier employment and easier forgiveness. We're for the workers to have all the rights. But there comes a period when there is no work and a simple employer cannot give it, and in such cases it is also necessary to allow the employer to reduce employment. I am sure that no employer will forgive a good worker, certainly not, but if this legislation is too rigid, too hard, then we simply have more jobs through espies where things are more flexible or even more working in black. Regarding demographics; at least we talk a lot about these things in New Slovenia, we are not embarrassed to open a debate on this topic, because we think of the future of Slovenia and the business framework and all our systems – for the economy, pension and health system – we think this issue is crucial. Even if someone on the left mocks us about this, but the fact is that 10,000 children are not born in Slovenia today, and if the country looks at it peacefully forever and nothing is done about it, then we will soon be gone. Therefore, the urgent family policy should be adapted to at least eliminate as many reasons why young people do not choose for more children. There are options, only they need to be decided. There's been a lot of talk about the health system. And here I'm afraid that you're running out of time, a respected coalition, but such a system that people are dying because of long waiting days, it's just not good. And finally, even the pension system needs to be adapted in a way that those who want to work can work, but those who want to retire and have opportunities to do so must receive a decent pension with which they can at least live, without getting new and new social problems when people leave for retirement. If I conclude, then I would say that if we want a normal change, we need to take action today if we want a normal Slovenia, but it is clear that the changes are crucial. It is clear to me that there is a severe apathy in the country and that people are convinced that we are all the same. I'm saying we're not. I also advocate that elections are still the only weapon to change in this country. Everything else means either bloodshed or severe problems and problems. Elections are the only thing that can be changed, even though people think they don't. But surely the biggest mistake is to paraphrase a very well-known scientist to vote for one and the same people and expect different results. I'm afraid that's not gonna work. Therefore, if we want good results in future and subsequent elections, then we will also have to stop voting against it. That a political party or some people win just because it's the majority or the number of people against someone can't bring good results, and things will improve when people start to vote for and not against.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u62	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, dear colleague and colleague, all together a very nice greeting! You will most likely agree with me if I say that we are meeting every day with a preordinance that is practically at every turn. The problem I see here is that this distortion affects a very small man, a farmer, a small entrepreneur. Why do I see a problem with that? Because those most exposed are the ones most struggling with this bureaucracy, because they are both human and financially limited to this thing because they do not have sufficient financial resources and, of course, knowledge. To that end, we have also heard the number of laws in force — 830. Even more so, the problem is that there are almost 19,000 regulations under the law. This is a set of regulations that we are almost unable to comply with, practically speaking, because we are not even able to get to know them. It is still the biggest problem and, I will say, iron bar for investment and development legislation in the area of spatial planning and, of course, legislation which prescribes procedures for obtaining or issuing a building permit. I hope, and in the Group of Members, that this urgent renewal of the procedures for the preparation of spatial acts and the procedures for issuing the building permit will be as soon as possible. And that is why a new system law on space regulation and, of course, construction law will be passed. We have also heard this from the Government that they have detected this problem and that they are rapidly working in this area. I would certainly like to point out that there is a great deal of effort to invest in appropriate legal solutions to increase our competitiveness. This is mainly the case in order to provide the legal basis for greater flexibility in the labour market, which will help small businesses once again to be able to better employ and plan their development. I would also like to point out that we need an appropriate social policy that will promote work, not work. Furthermore, it is very important that we finally achieve concrete, visible results in the area of demobilisation of calls for European funds, which I think is mainly for agriculture. Finally, it is very important that we design and also get an encouraging tax environment. Here, I would like to draw attention to at least two important issues, namely the possibility of extending flat-rate taxation, this would be extremely helpful in the development of complementary activities, since, last but not least, the complementary activity is very important for the development of rural and rural agricultural economies, and of course, the tax burden on work is of great importance. I think that we can be united that in Slovenia we want and need a predictable, transparent and stable business environment so that we can be competitive in the space where we live and work in global situations. In our parliamentary group with colleague Dobovski, we support the recommendations because we have seen that certain recommendations that are intended and proposed to benefit Slovenia have been made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. All right, Mr. Janez Janša, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u64	Yes, thank you very much. As previously announced, perhaps a few answers to what the Government replied plus what was partly said here. As I have said before, in this government response, some things are correctly explained, even explained, as they should be in normal communication, but some are somewhat comical. They are very surprised, but they touch on the essence when you have the following written on the fourth page: “Look at the better legislation and the removal of administrative barriers...” The expeditions, I guess. “... The Government of the Republic of Slovenia explains that in early 2016 the final stage of the determination of the efficiency of the decommissioning of the economy and citizens was carried out with unnecessary administrative procedures and burdens and increased efficiency of the public administration in 2009-2015. The target was to reduce the legal burdens identified by 25% and 362 million euros respectively. And says the government: “The results of evaluation are as follows: 146 measured measures, 365 million Euros of realised revenue, a reduction in legislative burdens of more than 25% of the identified burdens.” Oh, come on. See, the target was to decrease by 25% and this has decreased by exactly 25%. Even a merchant in a local store would write 24,9 so it wouldn't look like a fake. The target was €362 million saved, and see, the government found that the target was exceeded by €3 million, so 365 million has been saved. [[…]] I think everything would be very interested in the methodology on which this happened, but it's not that important. We have data in the material that shows how the situation in this area has actually changed since 2009. And look, at this time it became a new job, despite the fact that it was stopped in 2012 for a year, even slightly reduced, but at this time it became a new job in the administration and public sector of 20,000 people, 20,000! The cost of salaries has increased by almost 400 million. So it wasn't 365 million euros in savings, but it was about 400 million dollars. And at that time, the country's regulatory corps grew by another 6,000 laws and government regulations, by 6,000. Now tell me, how does this work together, how does this work together? In 7 years – 7 years this programme is expected to take place – they are expected to relieve the economy and citizens by 25%. At that time, however, the number of regulations increased by 6,000, the number of employees in the administration and the public sector by 20,000 and the amount of wages by some 100 million. Where's that load? Where's that load? Some steps have been taken in a positive direction, which comes from the following answers, but we do have some macro numbers that say exactly the opposite of what the Government says here. The next such illogicality in these answers is the denial of the problem on the one hand, and on the other hand the use of this same problem as an argument that some situation is the same as it is. Thus, in this chapter, which has obviously been written by the Ministry of Justice, it has already been said that we are the last in the European Union, as regards the number of judicial delays and so on, although the trend is very positive in recent years, but look at the fact that we have seen cases once more more than in the Czech Republic, it is said that more cases have been brought before the courts. Yeah, why is that? Yeah, probably because he's trying to regulate everything because it's full of rules. There's more rules. There's more than one conflict. There's more than one dispute, and then there's a bigger fallout on the authorities that solve it. So the things in this answer are illogical. Clearly, it was written by different ministries or administrations in different ministries, and there are always problems here, regardless of the government. But still, such contentual contradictions can't be, someone has to read it. Somewhere you also refer to quick action when it comes to important projects – Magna, right? Just because the Government proposed a special law on painting and a few hundred employees there at Maribor shows that we have some bureaucratic swamps, a bunch of regulations, full of obstacles that made this project impossible to go through on a regular basis, and you proposed an intervention law. If the situation were as beautiful as described, we wouldn't need a special marriage for Magna. And probably not for the second track that you voted for the second time. We have Slovenian railways. Slovenian railways are responsible for all kilometres of track, they have their own company that builds lines. But no, you have proposed a special law for a 27km track where a kilometre will cost €50 million, and the average in Europe for a kilometre of electrified railway is €5 to 7 million. If there are tunnels, it's times 2 or times 3, but it's not times 10. And it's a special law. If things were so right and the Government's mind was so anti-biocratic, we wouldn't really need a special law for Magna or another track. There are some illogicalities here, including — at least later in discussions by government parliamentary groups — some completely unnecessary defence. This isn't where the government was attacked. We did not come from a thousand to 20,000 regulations in 1991 because of the government of Mir Cerar. This is just some legacy of this increase in bureaucracy over various mandates. But it is true that right now this government has scissors and cloth in its hands. This government is not responsible for everyone, for the situation as it is in its entirety or in its main work, because it is only three years old, but it is the only government that has the responsibility to begin to correct it. And don't take it as an attack. These pre-election weather reports are also somewhat comical, because if they are measures that are needed I think they are necessary. [[…]] No normal person in this country can agree that it is normal for us to have one government rule per 200 inhabitants, says 20,000 laws and regulations. Then the smart government would say, okay, it's not all like you wrote, but some things are to be changed, and we'll change them, thanks for offering your hand, it'll go easier through the procedure. Where these calculations that you've given show that things aren't the best, and sometimes that's a healthy logic that says, it's possible to change a lot of things. And if this is a pre-election topic, why don't you grab it? Do these things and people will be happy with you. Don't tell the opposition that she's proposed something that people think is necessary. And the key reason why we suggested this is, I'll say, the horror that took us when we saw what statistics were like. I didn't realize here until we got this data that we had so many regulations. Okay, so we've accepted them, yeah, but usually when a new marriage comes into force, at least that's what I thought, then some of the previous marriage doesn't apply anymore. This is where it just rained, and now we're at 20,000. And this figure is totally contrary to this data that we have reduced administrative burdens by 25% since 2009. Nor is it worth commenting on what the United Left has said because they are living in a parallel world. You can share it and then create it, and so on, it's not worth answering. But the fact is that this underestimation of some serious warnings by the representatives of the economy also stems from these discussions by the government. Tell me, what, say, are 48 of these demands of the economy not smart? There are things where the finance minister will always say, without this overnight, there will be a drop, a short-term drop in revenue and so on and are things to discuss. However, it is full of concrete proposals, which cost no budget at all, that are added to the budget. And if they were done, all the public cash would be richer, the wages would be higher, the pensions would be higher, it would be more for solidarity, because there would be more productivity, because there would be more jobs – with us, not with Austria. As the lower tax rates would also increase in the medium term, as more would be generated. It would be better for fellow Members of the United Left. There's a lot of illogicality here. There is another motive for this situation, however, to be mentioned in this debate. The law of bureaucracy, I mentioned earlier, is a vicious circle. More bureaucrats, more regulations, more regulations, more bureaucrats, more bureaucrats, more money for administration. More regulations, more bureaucrats, more administrative barriers, more difficult life for citizens and more difficult business for the economy. But someone outside this circle is likely to be in a position to do so. And that's what sociologists call controlling society. There are more rules, the more the rules are unclear, the more ordinary citizens feel that they are somewhere on the edge, they are always afraid of violating something. However, if you add to this drastic penalties for minor traffic offences, which has been said in recent years, I will say, hastyly introduced, but the claims of some state institutions that there are no deadlines for them; for citizens there are no time limits for them when they should do something, then this symptom of the control of society through the fear that someone is constantly in a crime or that he can be prosecuted for a real or alleged offence, is always present and then the citizens are more remiss. [[…]] And this is some motive, probably outside of this circle, which is today discussing this, which is why this problem is not being discussed. We have so-called central national media that does not pay any attention to this problem, which is felt by two million citizens and citizens and virtually all economic operators around the country. That's not the topic. Wherever you go, you talk to people, economists at all, it's a topic that's neurological. But for so-called central Slovenian media, it is not a problem. Of course, he knows why. So much for now. We would be very pleased if someone from the government explained the methodology by which the Government calculated that the administrative burden had decreased by 25% from 2009 to last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Boris Koprivnikar, Minister of Public Administration, asked for the floor. Prepare Mrs Anita Kolesh and Mrs Iva Dimic. Here you go, Mr. Koprivnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u66	Thank you, President, for your word. Thank you, honourable Members and Members, also for these debates, and not least this topic, which is something we deal with every day, day after day very intensively and in some way try to stop this burden – a burden that I partly agree with – excessive bureaucracy of this country that we inherited. And so I will be very pleased to answer some questions or some questions, because I do not want this debate by the proposer to be answered in a way that is as if we are not aware of this problem and we are not doing anything about it, but this is something that we are happy to support, we are happy with these proposals, and we will be happy, as we have already responded, to continue to respond. For the first time, as regards employment, honourable Member Janša; 20 000 new employees in the public sector as a whole, while the share of employees in the last six years in the government has been reduced by 8% in the last six years, according to the Ministry and the authorities in the composition, the readers of bureaucrats, for salaries in this part, and this is very clear also from public statistics. It is true, however, that the public sector has gradually increased mainly in the field of education and health. For our known reasons. This methodology, which you have highlighted and is also explained in the measures in between certain measures – 146 – has been reduced by 25% by an administrative burden, measured by an external operator who has measured this by his own methodology. [[...]] There is a public publication, published, also listed in the material, and I suggest that we look at in this publication exactly how many millions or thousands of euros of measures, how many procedures and to what extent these measures have been implemented, because they are all individually explained, calculated and also presented in this publication to remove administrative burdens. And nowhere does it say that we have reduced administrative burdens by 25% in the Republic of Slovenia, but from identified administrative burdens, from identified administrative burdens. This methodology has proved to be good, and we are also strengthening it and we are continuing intensively with purely concrete projects and measures. For the first time in this mandate, we have introduced a so-called single set of measures to improve the business environment, the “STOP bureaucracy” project, and that is to say that we are different sources of proposals, different sources, where proposals are collected from chambers, individuals, citizens, not least from political parties in different places, we have arranged that this is all in one place, that this is recorded, that it is also true for a measure that is judged to be possible and meaningfully implemented, that is determined by the contractor – the competent ministry and is also monitored as to how this measure actually takes place and how its implementation is successful. Finally, all of this is accessible via the Internet, published, so that both Members and journalists and citizens can monitor how well and where the ministry is successful in removing administrative barriers, and unfortunately new ones are emerging. Finally, even in this proposal, 77 of the measures that you have mentioned as a proposal are a whole series of measures requiring additional administrative regulation of certain areas and will automatically propose an additional administrative burden. Sometimes it makes sense, sometimes it doesn't. However, that is why we are introducing concrete measures to avoid these additional burdens as much as possible. The requirements of the Slovenian craft, the requirements of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the digital agendas, the small economy agendas are the requirements included in this set of measures. 319 are currently on the entire database recorded and 185 have been completed. We continue, constantly acquire new measures and constantly monitor the realisation of existing ones. So far, we are at 58% of the measures implemented than those we have recorded for elimination. We are also helping ourselves with international knowledge, with the OECD, through which we have made an intensive analysis of the actual regulation of legislation. And very domestically, we want to say it gradually, gradually, because of course it does not go overnight and it is also related to what has been said several times and I, as the Minister of Public Administration, say that we should change the mindset of public administration. Yes, if anyone knows how to do this with one measure, then take my place. I'd be happy to leave. But with a whole series of measures of education, transparency, publication, concrete monitoring, we are achieving a gradual change in mentality – respect for and implementation of these measures – and with the OECD we are designing a project in which gradual legislation from the so-called process, where the process is written, is transformed into a target where we know what goal we need to achieve and who is responsible for achieving this objective. And when we come to accountability, we are once again faced with the problem that we are all talking about how state bureaucracy should be more effective when we assign responsibility to someone, and no one really wants to take that responsibility, nor does anyone trust it. If we tell the entrepreneur, the bureaucrat will decide whether it belongs to you or not, then the entrepreneur says, no, I demand a regulation that will determine exactly when it belongs to me and when it doesn't, because I don't trust the official. And so we are going around in a vicious circle, which we are gradually trying to break through with a whole range of measures, measurements, education in order to actually get out of this accompaniment of bureaucracy, and I think we are quite successful in some areas. For example, with the NGO Centre, we have conducted intensive training for 120 key public officials who are writing legislation. The scope of early involvement of stakeholders in the drafting of legislation has changed significantly, meaning that we are consulting chambers of commerce, civil society and others when legislation is actually being prepared. A project of a single business point for entrepreneurs, or All in one place or so-called e-VEM, has been very much upgraded, where it is already automated to the new 38 concrete procedures that entrepreneurs can do completely automatically, and we add always new ones. At the moment, new procedures are being prepared to automatically issue compulsory social security admissions, in order to allow for the automatic payment of salaries due to the hospital and the reimbursement of salaries, and here I am pleased to find that the number of these automated procedures since 2014, when I took over the ministry, rose by 260 000 at the end of the year to the end of the year a million 200 thousand automated procedures. This is a complete debirocratisation or removal of an administrative obstacle because computers talk about what we used to fill out some specific forms. We continue with this model. Let me mention, however, that since this year the so-called SME test has been mandatory, which means that every new law to be written must go through the sieve led by the Ministry of Economy, which calculates what the potential burden of this regulation is on the economy and on the individual who will have to implement it, so that we do not get to the rules where the proposer simply finds that there are no financial consequences. Practically every regulation has consequences and this new methodology also needs to prove these consequences. In addition, let me say that we have carried out a functional analysis where we measured and compared the effectiveness of the state authorities among ourselves — one of the measures that makes us more rational; that we have a new interdepartmental working group dealing with the internal efficiency of the ministries and bodies in the composition; that we also, in line with the indication of the initiator of this meeting, which should increase cooperation between the public administration and the private sector, have already been working with the three-year project through a partnership for change with cooperation between the public administration and the private sector; that we are introducing a competent model; that we have a new complete overhaul of the Administrative Academy, which is responsible for training staff in the public sector. These are all measures that will lead to a change of thinking in the public sector, but not in themselves, but in hard work, with a series of measures, with a great degree of transparency and with a great deal of planned work. I have only listed a few of these measures and I should like to conclude with the proposal for salaries, which have been mentioned several times. The Public Sector Wages Act and the Civil Servants Act have been waiting since February of last year for many interventions to be coordinated with trade unions, which must also give consent to this legislation, and we will continue to insist that there will be a greater criterion in the public sector to reward efficiency and the results of work, not a seniority principle, which means how long you are in the public sector. And that's exactly where these two bill proposals are going and in the direction that the flexibility of a public servant is greater. This means that we can use it in that part of the public sector where there is currently a higher demand for workers. And we believe that they are very useful and urgent solutions, which we hope will soon find a consensus of trade unions and, of course, later also the agreement of you Members of the National Assembly. So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u67	I give the floor first to Mr Dark Staret, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, before they get the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to clarify some of the information or statements on behalf of the applicants in relation to the specially-exposed quote from Mr Janša. The fact is that in this political discourse, which marks the National Assembly, however, there is a substantive difference, whether it is some negotiation or some persuasion based on arguments, substance-based, well-founded professional data. Of course, it is legitimate, the only difference is that in political negotiations, usually arguments are based on demagogies, incomplete data, inaccurate or even misleading. I do not mean to say that this time the purpose of the proposal is a demagogic or under-advised recommendation, but there is no doubt that the data on which the recommendations are based are not complete or incorrect to the cities. I'm talking about the area of justice, because, as you know, the government's response refers to all the areas of the field. What's this all about? For example, the proposer said that in Slovenia we have 200 citizens or Circus electors, I do not know how many laws because we have a thousand laws together and 18 thousand under-laws. I took a quick look at only the official websites of some European Union countries and I can tell you, for example, that in Britain there are 4 thousand 266 general laws – I am talking now only about the laws, not the sub-laws – we have 894, as you said, Austria has 2 thousand 230, Germany has 6 thousand 451, at federal level just over a thousand, not to mention the sub-laws that move between 17 and 22 thousand. The great reason or decisive reason for such a large number of regulations and regulations in all European Union countries is that there is a common European space in different areas that I will not go into detail now, and we are all marked together. There is no doubt that if I go for the purpose of the proposalr or your recommendation, although it is unconcrete, as one of the discussers has already mentioned; the objectives that you follow with the recommendations are good, it is not difficult to sign, we all agree, we all want justice and the procedure to be more effective, faster to have better wages in order to have more employment. But the key difference, and here too, is the beginning of political discourse in a conflict sense, is the choice of measures and the way to these goals. And here are the great differences between the opposition and the position. We do not agree here, which is legitimate, but there are no such measures, so there is no argument to discuss, at least in our area, and then there is no negotiation. This was basically my substrate for the introductory thesis that it was actually incomplete and could be misleading data. But I believe they were well-intentioned. Even in the work relating to justice, in no part of the text – but if I missed it, I apologize, but I am sure that I did not – we did not say that it could not be done as I think, at least as far as officials and public servants at the Ministry of Justice are concerned, I would very much say, critically or even insultingly, that they are simply guiding these stories and managing politics and so on. We have officials working very high-quality, very high-quality. We also respect different opinions because, you know, officials who have been working for a certain area for a long time or more governments have some professional beliefs that they have maintained in the previous period, and it is logical to defend their solutions with their arguments, but no contrary argument rejects them for some political or unreasonable reasons, but also accepts them. This, of course, depends on the political level of how competent managers are at the highest level, i.e. officials to enforce certain policies and perhaps also changes in policies and concepts of regulation of an area. In short, this claim that it is an excuse for not being able to do so because of some law is not the case in the area of justice. With regard to trends in the two recommendations relating to faster justice or more efficient judicial work and the abolition of backlogs, I think the applicant’s statement is simply lacking because it mentions data by 2014 and 2015. The fact is that the governments have also actively addressed the problem of large backlogs in the judiciary before Mr Mir Cerar's government. A very important measure would have been just in the time of the Janša government when the Ministry of Justice had prepared a systemic measure of law for the resolution of cases within a reasonable time frame, and then a whole set of organisational and institutional measures. However, in the post-2013 period, I will now provide data on the rate of recovery, which is the period of the Government of Mir Cerar, which is at least more likely, in principle, to be more objective and less biased as it concerns official data from 2017 to the European Commission. [[…]] And what do these data say? In fact, there has been significant progress over the period; compared to 2013, we had 420 days on average in Slovenia, according to the European Commission's assessment, and in 2016, this time has been halved and is 230 days. This is an important progress, which is also due to previous measures, but also to many important measures of the nine or twelve laws of this government in 2015, and not only to a set of systemic measures in the form of laws but also to organisational solutions that have essentially been in place over the last two and a half years. At present, however, there are 8 laws on justice in the National Assembly, and tomorrow we will have two on a committee that, in our opinion or in the opinion of the Government, will also contribute to the gradual acceleration and speed of the resolution of cases in judicial proceedings. Let's say time for administrative matters: in 2013 about 250 days, in 2016 150 days. I think that it is an enviable, important progress and is the result of the efforts of both the executive branch of power and you Members who have adopted laws at this time and, of course, those who implement these laws, in this case the judiciary of the authorities. From the point of view of solving the problem of insolvency or insolvency proceedings; here, as you can see from the official data of the European Commission, we have also recently published it on the website, we are 7th among the Member States of the European Union. In the area of preventive restructuring, however, we are almost an example because there are relatively fast procedures and the average in the European Union is 2 years and we have 9 months. This does not mean that we cannot be better, and we are aware of it. That is why, as I have already mentioned, there are already new 8 additional laws on your tables that can make an important contribution to making us even better. And for this reason, it seems to me that, I don't know, the proposaler simply overlooked all these key data and in his work he only mentions the statistics from 2014 and 2015, but not entirely. Since there is no doubt a good trend, there is no doubt that we can do even better, and we have committed ourselves to it, because I do not know any official, an official, and even less a member of this National Assembly in these two years, since I have this experience that it would be against all of us to be better together and to be more prosperous in this country at a higher level in all areas. For this reason, I think it is important that we discuss measures towards these objectives, which we all probably agree with. However, the measures, as we have said, can be different because we see different paths to the same objective. Which is optimal, which is the most appropriate, but then it is a matter of choice and good reasoning, but not of negotiating these flawed, incomplete or inaccuracies to cities. I'll be happy to say anything further. With regard to the measures that are actually something here, but not a lot of them in terms of the number of targets that are very large, I would also point out that we on the website of the Ministry of Justice in the area of justice have been imposing a whole range of measures on how to move towards justice, and this covers virtually all judicial bodies, including quasi-judicial bodies. And a large number of these measures have already been implemented, as I said, in the form of laws already adopted in this National Assembly at institutional or organisational or operational level, while circus 12 is still coming and 8 are already in here. Of course, you know that there are many legitimate conflict situations in the drafting of laws, because stakeholders are very different, have different interests and it is difficult to coordinate. That's why these trials last a little longer. But yet, we are going in this direction and that in some ways we are successful, these results are shown by others who see and see them. We don't want to see them like that. Not even the opposition in this case. However, I certainly do not think that this is the reason why we should not continue and work together for the best solutions. I have already said many times about justice: if it is a good proposal, regardless of who proposes it, because in our processes, you know this, professional coordination is also the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, in short, individual associations are included and to the greatest extent possible within those legitimate interests, and we are pursuing the public interest expressed by individual laws, but these interests are taken into account to the greatest extent possible, but subordinated to that public interest, as the Government sees and then proposals for adoption. So, as it is said, if there are any concrete measures, proposals, this is absolutely welcome, but so far it is not, and then it is difficult to argue. However, I have warned on purpose because I know that your purpose is good, because we all have a good intention together, that these data are weak or very uncritical, to release achievements, results and trends that are inherent and characteristic of the judicial area in the last three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u69	Mr Janez Janša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u70	Thank you very much again for your word. I would not even have spoken if the speaker had said that we would soon get or that we have already received 8 new rules proposed to solve these problems. God deceives us into such a solution to our problems! I would be very happy if someone here would say that he would suggest that five or six regulations should be repealed so that, instead, with one regulation, things can be easily resolved. But unfortunately, we haven't exactly been given these approaches since this part of the government. Many go the other way. The last such gift from the Ministry of Justice to Slovenian citizens is some stupid rule that has recently been adopted here, so that any Frenchman or Mick, who now opens a giro account, must sign a declaration that he is not the President of the State or a Member of the National Assembly. This is such a huge contribution to de-de-irocracy that everyone laughs. As far as statistics are concerned; I don't know if I'm reading the same thing, but here I am reading your material, that you have information on the number of other outstanding civil, economic and administrative matters and now Slovenia is here with Portugal in the last place or in the first place in the number of pending cases – in 2015 in your schedule. What are the trends I don't know, people don't notice them. This topic is very hot, in many environments we talk about it, people don't notice it, and statistics sometimes hide a lot, and it's not even the one you mentioned, it's bad. [[…]] Whether trends are better or not, I don't know. Here on the next street, I think Cankar's, I met a lady who told me days ago, look at this, this place I think she's writing up Tkanina, you know, it was ours, they took it away, and now we've been waiting for 26 years in denationalisation trials to get it back and we've already spent more on lawyers than the bar is worth it. [[…]] [[…]] Twenty-six years! On the other hand, I believe that when something happens in March, the court hastens even during court holidays to resolve the matter because it is in the interest of someone. In statistics, then, that's 13 years of average, isn't it? Well, it's full of these cases that I'm not referring to the Shilih case, where they're also looking for justice, I don't know how long it's been since the settlement happened last year. Statistics are sometimes improved by a few hundred or a thousand wills placed somewhere, and then it is said that there is no need for anyone to answer and no one to answer and so on and so forth. Not to mention the thousands of euros that Slovenian taxpayers have to pay due to these delays in judging those who then claim justice in the European Court of Human Rights. So that's the fact. [[…]] When this is gone, citizens will also notice these movements. As long as it's just a statistical operation, we don't notice. As far as it's concerned. Look, if I've been vague before, I'll quote. It says: "Although Slovenia still ranks among the countries with the highest number of cases – Slovenia in 2015 38 cases per 100 inhabitants, for example, the Czech Republic in 2015 10 cases per 100 inhabitants – and in Slovenia the number of pending cases has been halved since 2010." 38 cases per 100 inhabitants are a huge thing. It will be difficult for you to attribute this to a quarlant nature of the nation or the population, which is impossible. The complex, vague, and, above all, the large number of regulations that sometimes conflict with each other are often the reason why they are such. If the rules were clear, if they knew exactly what it was, it wouldn't be. This number is amazing. 38 out of 100 citizens and citizens on average have a conflict. abnormal state, abnormal state. Of course, what we are saying does not mean that everyone in the public administration or administration is doing badly that there has been no progress. Some things are also well explained in this government’s reply, and they certainly hold to things. We have administrative units in this country, where things are well arranged; even foreigners who come there say that is not the case with us, is significantly worse administration. But there are, of course, environments where they think that everything is resolved by filling out a form now on the computer instead of on paper. The fact that an administration is carried out electronically does not make it easier for people to do so. Also, electronic forms are extremely complicated. This also requires that the same data be sent on these forms every year, although nothing has changed, there is and, of course, there is also a need to pay the fee again and so on and so on. That you have to meet the data that every administrative unit has, everyone knows your EMHO, everyone knows your address, that's all in the computer. It is full of what is yet to be fixed, and I am glad that the Minister of Public Administration has somehow fallen into this response. But the key is that you realize that there will be no visible movement here until people see it until we represent just statistics. Okay, you can go on TV and say that, but it has a very short effect.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u71	The Secretary of State, Mr Darko Stare, wishes to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u72	I would only complement myself in the context of these also in your additional implementation of the eight laws mentioned above, which are being considered in Parliament. This is not about new laws, but it is about correcting existing arrangements precisely in order to make the procedures faster, simpler, more efficient. So it's not about new marriages. As for these individual solutions, as we say, this can be a political debate, a matter of reasoning, which path, which course, which way is better to those common goals that we all have before us, so that society can be more effective in order to make prosperity more prosperous. Then it's a matter of content and persuasion. We are convinced that this path is good, that these measures are true, results and trends show this. Statistics aren't critical, they're one of the indicators. And like you used it in your work, I only commented on it because it seems decisive to me because we are already in 2017 to have up-to-date data, because they are available. However, I agree with you that only statistical data can get anyone — not just the user, including the listener — wrongly because it is some statistical average and we have people in a country who have no legal dispute. But we have people who have 50 and a hundred. And then statistically, of course, the two million inhabitants come in the way they come in. The fact is also that, compared to what you mentioned, I think in the introductions – these countries of the Visegraj Group – that these are different cultures, different values in individual societies. I remember from the beginning of the law study, when it was repeatedly highlighted and I also saw this from publicly available data, how the culture and values of the individual community in justice are reflected. Let's say it was a very typical area of, I don't know, personality rights in an Anglo-Saxon area where there's some kind of value system where there's a conflict. In societies like us, where value is, I don't know, real estate, housing, family and so on, but there's a lot of these fair practices because of inherent, inconspicuous disputes, because it's a value to people. And that's not what's better now, but it's just some state, some culture, which, of course, also leads people to solve problems even on the way, if we can't. All things are not simply comparable. And as we say, it's important that we keep going this way. It was launched by all governments after independence, and I think that the only thing we could find together is that things could be significantly faster. Unfortunately they are not, but this is a commitment for us at the moment, which we have an obligation and a duty in the executive branch of power to try to accelerate these trends, strengthen them and I believe that everyone who has this responsibility will also do so. We are convinced that this path is good and, in fact, in a way, a graduate, gradually, without significant shocks, it improves the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u73	Ms Anita Koleša has the floor to prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The requirement to convene an extraordinary meeting always arouses some attention due to the impression of important content and, of course, the urgency of the hearing. Well, today we have on the agenda the issue of administrative burdens and the continuous deterioration of the business environment in Slovenia, as the proponents have written. Of course, we can discuss the importance of content, but they are by no means urgent, according to my assessment. More than that; throughout the entire mandate, the topics considered today as one item in the agenda have been addressed and are still very thorough. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Government has a very substantive and thorough response to our proponents, who asked them or the representatives of the ministries to respond to their so-called recommendations. Since these answers have actually been received, the very requirements for the Government to be defined in these recommendations are, of course, irrelevant. But there is, of course, an opportunity for great content and we have already heard it. I am particularly pleased with these responses from both representatives, both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Public Administration. It is true, however, that in some manner of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we already have on the agenda the so-called frightening problems of this country, which are stifling citizens, stifling farmers, entrepreneurs. With some main emphasis: an incredible number of regulations, a series of comparisons between countries, a reference to individual cases of citizens facing an administrative or bureaucratic obstacle. It is not so insignificant, however, that we are actually talking — both the opposition and the coalition — about the same issues as was just said by the Secretary of State, but in different ways. Even if we are talking about these problems in the judiciary, I do not feel any special progress in justice, but because I have never been in any court proceedings before, and these things are not so important to me personally. Well, if I first touch on the number of rules adopted. Of course, the data itself does not talk about some serious bureaucratic attitude of the country towards citizens, especially when we are talking about the number of rules per population. We know how many people our Slovenia has. And it is also very true that when we entered the European Union, we entered a common European space, including a legal space, and too many of the problems of individuals stem from this period, when new laws, new regulations, began to be very much adopted. If we are fully exposed – after what we have received from the data proponent, it is clear that we have accepted them most from 2004 to 2008, so it is in some way a shame that the applicants have become so critical to the extent of the legislation adopted only in this mandate, even though we have adopted less than a third of the number of laws in that, I will say, a critical period of the National Assembly with regard to the adoption of rules. Of course I'm not even talking about the submarital acts. If this government would like to catch up on the pace of the number of sub-legal acts adopted during the reign of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it should adopt a thousand 450 by the end of the term of office. However, to explain something, and to do something a little differently or the other way around, I will once again give an example of that unfortunate position, because it was mentioned here again as an example of a bureaucratic obstacle; this is a position for copyright duties. The proposer emphasises overriding, but at the same time proposes that we lay down a single position by law. I mean, this single position is an extremely bureaucratic measure that could completely stop payments that have been made under an agreement, for example, between the collective organisation and the user. And I think that this interpretation of people, the interpretation of citizens, is really manipulative. Both in the material and in the debates many words are meant for the public administration, including its effectiveness, the number of employees whom, of course, the opposition believes – well, here of course I am not referring to the United Left – which is far too much. On the committee responsible, I drew attention to one interesting study, or one debate, which Professor Marko Pahor of the Faculty of Economics took up in the Finance newspaper. It is very fair, so I repeat it here in this debate: this is the main conclusion of the contribution itself. This is that the Slovenian public sector is in fact perfectly normal in size and structure for the time and space in which we live. Or in other words, we get as much from the state as we give it to her. We are not talking about some average of Slovenia, but here we are talking about what this red thread of research is – so that we have a completely normal public sector. Of course, there is also no way for me to avoid some debate about so-called good and good officials, but also about the bad and lazy. All the legislation that increased the administrative burdens and produced the bad ones and, let's say, the lazy officials were 25 years old. And not just the legislation, but also the attitude towards public services and officials during this 25-year period, we have created, in particular, politicians, whether or not it has been created by politicians. They were setting up new barriers so that they could be happy, as you would like to say in the opposition today, according to a healthy farm. Of course, there is probably room in the legislative field too, but I believe that there is much more to it in accepting certain different values based primarily on agreement, on respect and, above all, on accepting responsibility. All things simply cannot be ordered, prescribed, or even punished by some nailing on the pranger. I'm going to make one case. You also have a recommendation to reduce the number of permits required when organising public events. On one very exposed occasion in my place, I organised a round table with the organizers of the event, which included representatives of the state, the administrative unit, the municipalities and, of course, the organisers. We all wondered whether recently the number of necessary permits, the necessary requirements, or perhaps these required permits had become so difficult that even the organisers lost their patience. Not at all. What was at first sight an administrative obstacle was undermined by the explanation as an obstacle, and this did not require any change, but only everyone — the organizers and officials — must be aware of their responsibilities and responsibilities. Today, when virtually all data, all surveys, opinions from economists, OECD, credit rating houses show that the business environment in Slovenia is greatly improving, the motioner writes: “Constant deterioration of the business environment”. I don't think we can tell this statement any different than some obvious lie. The government or the competent ministries are practically responsible for any claim. With all the indications, we have already met and faced arguments several times in the National Assembly. We're facing them today. It certainly does not hold that this is simply about rejecting proposals. Not far. The reality of the socio-economic situation in Slovenia, economic growth, employment, growth in foreign investment, and the growth of GDP is a fact that gives right to the Government and the people who trusted this coalition. However, I very much agree that everything is by no means in economic development and in the salvation of the winners of this ruthless competitive struggle. Perhaps we should think of the words spoken today, in the words of the President of the Red Cross of Slovenia, to reduce solidarity among people and to be impatient with our fellow citizens and residents who are losers in this ruthless game. These certainly aren't the ones who don't want to buy tax receipts.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u75	The text is by the representative of the proposer, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the government, a nice greeting on my behalf as well! And here's what I'm gonna do. In high school we had one subject called, I think, Economic Law. On the very first day we had to write on the front page of the notebook: Ignorance of the law harms – a legal fiction based on the fact that all laws and also sub-laws must be published earlier and that, of course, citizens and citizens have the opportunity to familiarize themselves with them. But when we imagine that we have more than 20,000 of these laws and regulations, we also wonder how citizens and citizens should be, how entrepreneurs should be, how farmers should be well aware of this, how they should not then be punished. If my predecessor estimates that this topic is not urgent, that it is not so important, of course I cannot agree with it, and I think it is still important. And I'm going to go to the positions of the coalition groups themselves. I'm going to start with the biggest coalition party, SMC, where their representative said, "I think we're on the right track." And I'm wondering if we're really on our way. If we just look at the scales of economic freedom. Last data from 2016: between 159 countries we held the 97th city. We have been ranked worst by all Member States of the European Union. If we look at the year 2010, which, of course, relates to two years ago – in 2008, we were at 60. A place. And when we look at why we're so bad, we see two key points: the first is the size of the para state where we took 147th place, and the second is the rules, the regulation where we took 123rd place. And I don't know, I can't appreciate that we're on as good a path as the thoughts of the biggest opposition party. It is true that if we look at one period from Slovenia's independence to today, we must admit, we have achieved some solid growth, we have achieved improvements in the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we ask ourselves if we have achieved all that could be achieved in the light of the potential that we as a country have. That's not what we're doing. And that's what the problem is. And one of the key reasons that we have not achieved this is the topic that we are talking about today – administrative obstacles. And that's why it's so much more important. Let us look at the period of crisis or the period since the start of the crisis; at the time when key reform measures should be taken, not one has been adopted. And it was during this very period that the countries of the Visegraj Group overcame us, and the Baltic countries that were significantly behind us at the time that they were significantly ahead of us. Specifically, reaching the EU average by purchasing power, the Czech Republic – in 2008 was at 81% of the EU average, in 2015 at 85%. We in Slovenia were at 89% in 2008 and at 83 in 2015, so we got ahead of ourselves. And that's only because we didn't take advantage of the opportunities we had. And what is even more disturbing? We are also not reducing the backlog behind the developed work of Europe. Not nearly. Why? Because our economic activity is not supported by an increase in productivity, because we have very few employees in the private sector. We still have almost 70,000 less employees in the private sector than we had in the pre-crisis period. And no one's pointing that out, but that's a big problem. However, when we look at what we are earmarking from the state budget, there is, of course, another problem. For the most part, it's just running costs. In recent years, the budget has spent extremely little money on investments. And that's what's really worrying. Of course, the biggest coalition party was also exposed to economic growth. Nor does anyone here wonder what the international environment is like at this time. Actually, it's good. Especially our biggest economic partners in Germany are doing well and that is why we have such good economic growth because of our exporters. But you're wondering how much better we could be if we could take advantage of all the potentials we have? I don't know, maybe we could achieve economic growth, as is achieved by the countries of the Visegrad Group. Maybe you could. It has also been pointed out that foreign investors are now attracted. Yeah, a good example, of course, is Magne. Now, somehow, I can't get past actually reading what you government representatives wrote down, probably in particular in the Ministry of Economy, when we adopted the Law on Strategic Development Area of State Interest in the municipality of Hoče. The very explanation of the law states: “It follows from the analysis of the collected data that the opening of new companies in the Republic of Slovenia is relatively effective, since the registration of the company on average takes place within 6 days. It requires only two procedures, which makes the Republic of Slovenia a third place in the effectiveness of the registration of a company between the Visegrad countries." We're doing great. Do you remember when this was introduced? At the time of Janshea's first government. There has been great progress in this area, and this has been acknowledged by all of us today. We have great seats, but let's read on. “Unfortunately, the Republic of Slovenia takes an absolute last place on the scale by which the number of days between those countries is measured to obtain the building permit and the number of days to register the property, since the average number of days to obtain the building permit in Slovenia is 213 days.” At least the proponents were aware that if you want to attract an investor, you obviously need to adopt one additional law again, which is, of course, a completely wrong measure. We should solve the problem of why such cases occur, why 213 days on average in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain a building permit. We should start here, but you're solving problems with new laws. And, of course, we also adopted the law by emergency procedure. In explanation of why this is necessary, however, you wrote that in comparable countries, the deadlines for the acquisition of real estate, the issue of a building permit and thus the start of an investment are significantly shorter. “Too many investors would be prevented from investing in the Republic of Slovenia...” which means that our red tape is more than obvious, too long-term proceedings deter investors. You wrote that down yourself. So I think that we all agree here, this is an area that is still very urgent and I therefore justify that I cannot agree with the SMC Member that it is not such an urgent topic. Yes, it is more than obvious that it is urgent for you, because this is precisely why you adopted the law after the emergency procedure, because otherwise you would have prevented more investors, which is of course unacceptable. It was also mentioned that SMC is committed to a modern business environment. This is a little difficult to imagine what this modern business environment should be. Does this mean, I don't know, the burden of the economy in a way that you just employ employees from the economy in the public sector? Or it means that, I don't know, you introduce, I don't know, registration of bikes with engines, and then you upgrade it with, I don't know, too fast wheels, skiers, etc.? Or, I don't know, the way you run your circular economy, which you do mainly in state-owned companies. I can hardly imagine what this modern business environment should be. The tax environment was mentioned, which should not change too quickly, because of course this is not a good and encouraging and good signal for investors. I completely agree with you. Let us look at just one example of a change in the law that took place during the time of this government. A tax raise on the income of legal persons. We're going to 2012, the other Janša government. At that time, at the very beginning of the mandate, the corporate income tax was reduced from 20% to 15%, gradually. First year at 18, then next year at 17. Unfortunately, there was another government, the government of Alenka Bratušek, who then stopped this reduction at 17%, but investors had a signal in 2012 – the corporate income tax will be 15% in Slovenia in a few years. I don't know, for a year, two stopped at 17%. What did you do? You raised him to 19%. I don't know what that signal is for investors. If we look at Desus's or SD's statements; I don't know, it was all more in terms of unrealistic ideas without concrete reflections, without concrete proposals. I personally appreciate that there are quite a lot of very concrete proposals here in this material. And finally, these are the proposals of our economy, these are the proposals of our agriculture and these are the proposals of our citizens. And that's probably not something to ignore. And it would be right for those who are really good to finally admit and say it, and we will do it. This would not be wrong; we have, in a way, wanted to give you the opportunity to do something else in this last year of your mandate in this direction. On the SD side, it was said that we somehow outsource the work to the government. We recommend, we give the Government the opportunity to define around this. Outsourcing is usually one who works very well, at least companies are looking for outsourcers who are really doing well. Unfortunately, our assessments for your government are not so good that they would gladly give you some assignments. That is why you have concrete solutions and concrete ideas here, which, once again, go by our citizens and citizens, are the proposals of our economy and are the proposals of our agriculture and, of course, should not be ignored in this way. Otherwise – because you have really accepted one pile, I will say, only additional administrative obstacles during this government or ministers who are already in this government. Let's take a look at the case of valuations. Even here, in explanation of this we're building, you're kind of trying to convince us how cool and cool this system is. What did he bring? Only more administrations and only higher costs. In 2016, 23 000 584 values were purchased. If we multiply it times 9, because it costs so much one, we will come to 212 thousand 256 euros, which are expected to be added – one part in pension and one part in medical bills. What did Minister Mrakov say when this law was passed? “This will bring two million additional per year to the pension and health allowance. This will save the work in black." None of this has happened; you have only introduced an additional administration and additional burden, of course, under the pretext that by purchasing a valuer or by paying social security contributions to an individual, basic social security is provided in a way that is included in compulsory pension and disability insurance. I don't know, someone who buys one fortuneteller a month gives it to him – what? He's working one day. What about a pensioner? He doesn't even recognize it. I mean, it's a bunch of these things that really don't matter, and I don't want to hold back now because we've already had sessions on this subject. This same Ministry How many pending complaints against public funds rights? [[…]] How many delays are within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs? Still! When was the most important work done in this area? When did these backlogs go down the most? During the second Janša government. What did you do during this period? A bunch of working groups, a bunch of outside associates, counselors, and there were no concrete solutions in this area. And if we look at the area of agriculture, which I believe will be further exposed. We have the most small farms in Slovenia, or I will say otherwise – most of the ones we have that are most burdensome in agriculture are small farmers. They are farmers who, in fact, cannot survive from agriculture alone, who go to work and keep the farm they have, because they somehow maintain a family tradition or want to have a regulated environment where they actually live. It's a nice case, Haloze. Such small farms, where work is actually difficult and some of them are almost unable to live. The measures available to them in fact in this area are a disaster. Environmental measures, subsidies I still hear most often that this is a burial for them precisely because of the excessive administration that is within it, and keeping numerous records that actually benefit one farmer absolutely nothing. [[…]] Nothing at all. It is simply that those who come and exercise control are likely relieved by their work. Today, the Minister of Public Administration has been exposed to how many procedures we have automated. Great, very encouraging. But on the other hand, of course, we also wonder why we still have so much more administration. And finally, at the very beginning, I read his interview in one of the newspapers. I agreed with most of the answers he gave at the time. I thought, great, but now we really have one such real reform of the public administration. But until today, we haven't gotten any of that. It was also said how it would be changed, I don't know, a system for evaluating public servants, as today, based on efficiency, performance, flexibility. What was done? What is the percentage that is still assessed by an excellent evaluation in the public administration? Where are we? Still at 96%? Tell me, what kind of evaluation system is this? What system? Which company has such an evaluation system if it has it in place? Well, please tell me one company. But it is just as Pulitzer’s rewarder Brooks Atkinson once wrote: “It is a successful bureaucrat who manages not to take any decision and not to take any responsibility.” I don't know if you're aware, but unfortunately, many young people are leaving Slovenia because they don't see opportunities and opportunities for development here. A lot of young people. Those educated, those talents that are our potential, we lose them. Many people are leaving because of an environment like that in Slovenia. They can't get a job, the entrepreneurial environment is insurmountable. The educational system is designed not to give them the basics, to actually change their thinking and to hope to go on an entrepreneurial path, if, of course, we were not choked in the first place by the mass of bureaucracy and taxation. But I hope we're aware of what we're losing. We invested in them through kindergartens, primary schools, high schools, colleges, but when we actually start returning to the country in some way, they're leaving the country. They're going to neighbouring Austria. Well, they're probably very happy there. But it would be wise to make such an environment so that young people here will have the opportunity to develop. That anyone with a small idea will have the opportunity to develop it, that the environment will be much more innovative, because then Slovenia will have a better future. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u77	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grims and Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go, Mrs. Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u78	Thank you very much. There has been some debate already today, you have touched on agriculture, the area I know most and we keep reminding you about in Novi Slovenija. Of course, it makes no sense and the introduction of tax boxes in agriculture has devastating consequences. Also too bureaucraticly regulated complementary activities. However, the burdens are not only bureaucratic, they are also financial, for example, to supplement the health insurance of supplementary undertakings, although there is no additional right to pay the amount paid. So it's easy to build everything on the shoulders of farmers. I would like to point out one concrete example of complementary activities, of course smaller, somewhere between €3 000 and €500. If we subtract raw materials and work, that is minus 80 % of these recognised costs, it remains around €700. If we share this with 12 months, we get a month – a farm with an additional activity – €58. If it's any money to survive on a farm like this, I don't see there's any point in insisting on this story at all. Of course, EUR 58 still needs to be deducted for health insurance, about EUR 33 per month, so that it remains with the holder of the agricultural complementary activity EUR 25 per month. In Novi Slovenija we keep reminding that something needs to be changed in this area and that those who want to survive should not live, survive from the farm, this should also be made possible. And these, of course, are our bureaucratic obstacles. Tax cashiers, complementary activities. In Austria, they have this simple solution. The complementary activity is, of course, not limited to the first and second processing, but in fact – practically what farmers want in Slovenia. What they're producing, they can process. But we do have a system that controls it, of course. If one farm has 20 plums, it is known how much jam can be cooked. And if he's going somewhere else, of course he can figure it all out. I don't know why there's always another need to be further guided. We have a case of FADN data management and capture, but a few months ago we said something else here, parallel farmers must keep additional records. Why, if FADN has been prescribed by the European Commission to keep records on the farm? I think that too many times we all realize that farmers, which are at the expense of crops and, as a result, income, cannot apply to the labour market and receive compensation. They can't! We're not aware of that. They're addicted and they're an animal. Nothing belongs to them. I'm curious how and what we've got now for two years to order some frost and of course such glamorous claims to book and finally find that they only get big and small again nothing, and they can't apply to the labor market to get some compensation. [[…]] [[…]] I just wanted to point out that the LAG, the Local Action Group, has been pointing out all the time that the Local Development Implementation Regulation, a real act written by officials in ministries, in certain articles of non-life and notaries, makes it very difficult for quality and rapid preparation of the project application. It seems to me that for one pencil they order, they have to have three offers to make it illogical and make all this pumping difficult. Of course, I got the information that there is a game in the background, that the funds will not be distributed there, because then they will be transferred to somewhere else towards the end of the financial perspective. I therefore ask the distinguished representatives of the Government: When and with what measures will the managing authorities simplify procedures and reduce administrative requirements for the use of European funds in the context of the European Commission's efforts to reduce bureaucratic procedures and obstacles within the framework of the Community's local development programme? Slovenia has major cities, but Slovenia also has rural areas. I think it's right for all of us to make sure that this village lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u79	Mr Peter Pogačar, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting for me, too! I would like to respond to the debate of the honourable Member of the European Union, Ms Leipzig Šimenko, on the values. I do not know why the introduction of valuations is such a problem that we have discussed this several times in the National Assembly. The values are intended for a simple legal way of carrying out the work. It was introduced by the Law on the Prevention of Work and Employment in Black, and the basic idea of valuations is to enable an individual to work legally with a natural person — a contracting entity. In this way, that individual shall obtain, for his account, paid contributions for health insurance, injury at work and pension insurance, and from this title also formerly pension benefits. If you say that the evaluation project has failed, bureaucratically, however, I would like to emphasise the following because of the public's need. Before the introduction of the values, we had some less than three thousand individuals doing personal complementary work. On day three. 5. At 11.34, 6 000 964 performers of personal supplemental work were reported in Apes; it is said that more than twice the number of performers has doubled since the introduction of personal add-on work valuations. In 2015, when the system of valuations entered into force on 1 January and the system could still be in place for the first 6 months, 15 000 631 valuations were purchased for administrative units. One year later, 23 thousand 584 were purchased in 2016. It means that the number of performers of the personal complement has doubled, and the number of purchased values has doubled. And let's not forget, at the Ministry we have all the desires, expectations, demands both for individuals and for organisations to expand the list of works that can be carried out as personal complementary work on the basis of valuations. Apparently, the system has recovered in one and a half years, but it has already already covered the costs of implementing the system itself, which are unique. Let us not forget that, as of November 2015 citizens can obtain a value through the eGovernment web portal, this is also very important. That is, however, to be stressed. Once again, the values are given as an option. The possibility of the person wishing to do so is said either as a contracting authority, or as a natural person who performs his work, that he is legally, administratively, legally carrying out his work, has paid social security contributions and, in this way, pension security one day. That's all it takes to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u81	The word has magic. Branko Grimes. Prepare Mr Jani Möderndorfer and Janko Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u82	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you! National interest was certainly one of the most abused vocabulary in the history of the Slovenian Parliament and Slovenian economy or entrepreneurship. The national interest was, for example, the rehabilitation of some coastal bank, which was then sold at a price to some Italian company, which was accidentally slightly linked to Safti, which was accidentally financed by the Udba and so on and so on. In short, under national interest, all possible nonsense has been smuggled, but you will not believe that national interest really exists. What is really a national interest? Of course, not what the leftist sells under national interest. National interest is what is essential for the survival and further development of the Slovenian people as a nation and is therefore an expression of national interest. And here I see only three points right now that are essential. The first national interest is security, the second national interest is a number of Slovenian children and the third is a more favourable environment for entrepreneurship, with entrepreneurship becoming a value. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the subject of today's session. And if we look at all those three points. As far as security is concerned, today the Prime Minister of the Government, Dr. Cerar, was crying in this same National Assembly, how terrible that Brexit had happened, with a thunderbolt for border control. And this is exactly the same Dr Cerar who released half a million illegal migrants illegally and without control over the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. So much for safety. As far as efforts are concerned for several Slovenian children; 123 million budgets for illegal migrants are not a problem, anything for Slovenian children – 30,000 of them were unable to go to sea last summer after warnings from Slovenian NGOs and they wanted to – and this money is not found. The government goes to sea, takes migrants and paints with them that it is a beautiful multimedia for left-wing media. That's the attitude of Slovenian children if you have left-wings in power. And then we get to entrepreneurship. Certainly one of the stupidest statements I have ever heard is that which we have read from one of the Slovenian – current governments – ministers who said I quote from memory by fertilizing bureaucracy what creates entrepreneurship. If he wanted to say that this government is a particular bureaucracy, which is in fact the worst that could happen to the country, I congratulate him. If not, however, it is necessary to return to the beginning of how this meeting was actually formed. A few months ago this idea arose when I discussed at the meeting of our Group of Members that we must do everything in our power to stop the most destructive process for the Slovenian people. This is that entrepreneurs and the headquarters of businesses and young families are being sent abroad because the environment is unfavorable to entrepreneurship. And that this process needs to be reversed so that we will at least be as inclined to entrepreneurship as Austria next door or more, because it is only in time that the process will turn around and begin to develop for the benefit of Slovenia and Slovenia. And as one of the possible measures, I drew attention to the very well-established principle of tax flats in Austria at that time. It is said that many of you can be flattened in scope and in areas where in Slovenia, where there is in fact only one such exception to enforcement, the government thinks that it would eliminate it or at least make it difficult, we can only dream. What's the point of this story? Your attitude towards entrepreneurship, ladies and gentlemen, this coalition and thus the left-wing authorities have shown when you have rejected all the conclusions we have proposed in our work. These conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, have been, for the public, in line with all economic chambers – craft, agricultural, with all, ladies and gentlemen. You've turned it down smoothly. Tens, hundreds of experts and thousands of entrepreneurs participated in the development of this material. All these ideas were united, so they were large-scale conclusions, concrete. You've rejected everything. That's your relationship to entrepreneurship. So what is the most important thing to change? It is necessary to change the thinking and thinking of those who are in power at this moment. If not, they must be replaced as a matter of urgency. Do you know what this thought is? You basically understand entrepreneurship as an emergency supplement, one skydigare to strengthen bureaucracy. The country, so bureaucracy, this is the all-encompassing Robin Hood, who is a noble, justly distributed No, this is, of course, a press release. [[…]] What's really on your mind? You need as many poor people as possible to manipulate them, to get everyone on the budget, and then to vote left because they think they're gonna lose what left-wings give them. This is a principle that we now see all over the world, and it was very nice to see in the American elections. And this principle also supports speculative capital, because the mountain of poor people and poorly developed entrepreneurship gives them the greatest opportunity to profit, so the various Soros finance the left and so on. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, this is absolutely mirroring the opposite of what you, of course, want to sell in words. And the difference between words and actions is what this country is really doing right now is so ineffective and has been burdened by it for several years. So what must we achieve? We need to reach a position where, first, entrepreneurship and every entrepreneur will be valued when entrepreneurship becomes a value when it is understood that entrepreneurship alone gives social security, prosperity and a basis for everything else. And everything must be subordinated to this objective. Tax relief should be introduced, it is necessary to help – help, ladies and gentlemen, not control and punish, help – those who start a business. Just like neighbouring Austria knows. To someone who starts an activity in any area, you don't send a hundred inspectors to punish him and wipe him out before he starts doing well, but to help him create as much as possible. It is necessary to introduce more tax flats and to stop these manias, which we have seen beautifully in government words today. Every tolar, every dinar – yes, now we have euro – we have to control each euro, we must not earn one euro if the state does not allow it if we do not allow it to do so first, and of course the country will pick it up once more. About this logic was so beautifully presented on the government side. Almost hysterical. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the wrong logic. Why do you know in Austria that Gorenska was four times more developed than neighbouring Austria during World War II? Then came socialism, which continues today in the context of this thought that we have now witnessed to it. Where is Gorenska today and where is Austria? Just what's the principle there? There's a different principle. First of all, he trusts a man and lets him get rich. That's why the bumps are so common there. There's nothing wrong with making a little more money and keeping a little more. We're creating a rich individual. Because in time he will probably invest this money in some productive activity, open up a new job, hire someone else, expand his activities, survive as an entrepreneur, strengthen and develop. Developing himself, his family, and developing the country as a whole, the community as a whole. That's the principle of how you develop entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to get to that first. Once this mentality has stopped, which was seen at the time of the introduction of the tax registers, where it is still being yelled at today, what has happened to it. Yeah, it's the devil. Consider how many people you have hired to do this additionally to control all of this, because this is a bureaucratic thought – everything must be controlled. Count how many people actually returned businesses at the time because they simply did not get paid anymore; not only because of this action but also because of others who made it difficult, they encouraged entrepreneurship, how many people returned businesses, how many people went to social services, and we will see what the truth is. I say it's a huge minus after he stops teasing and lying once and for all, because unfortunately he usually does. And it must be understood that the whole country, when it comes to entrepreneurship, is in this sense a service for entrepreneurs. That the only goal of the country is to create a favourable environment for entrepreneurship is to adopt measures that enhance the competitiveness of entrepreneurship, which allow entrepreneurship to develop and, in this way, to develop a rich society. And finally, I'm sorry that time doesn't allow me to just go into more detail about all this stuff, remember one thing that I mentioned at the beginning. Security is also an important element today, and I say that it will be increasingly important, especially in the area of Europe, when it comes to the question of the existence of entrepreneurship, the strengthening of entrepreneurship, because there is nothing without security. In time, too, capital will make it easier for people to feel safer. It is not only about physical security; such security must also be ensured by the solid functioning of justice, which unfortunately is not in our possession, even by the solid functioning of the banking system, which is not in our possession and, of course, by rational adoption of laws, which must be directed at the fact that things are being deregulation as far as possible to release the development potential of Slovenia. I claim that Slovenia also has Slovenia and Slovenia, that this potential is also earned.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u83	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and the mag. Andrey Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President. I must admit that I thought it would be a slightly more interesting topic or at least a debate, but I can see that it is even more boring than the committee it was. However, there is something else to be commended. Today, with the exception of this predecessor of mine, I was glad that at least we would not talk about migrants, Roma, prostitutes, I do not know what else is disturbing about Slovenian space, but the predecessor, of course, let me down because it is not easy for him to live without it. It seems that he simply builds on his personality and his rhetoric only because it is the only thing that satisfies him in life. Well, if we're really talking about the proposed topic, it's saying how to reduce as much as possible the administrative obstacles as possible, and all that the Slovenians and the economists -- from small entrepreneurs to large economies and, finally, citizens and citizens -- can actually be burdensome, I can say that these are topics that have been answered in some way. Most of this, of course, was already raised in the very question of the entire interpretation of the government that was last year. And in these materials, remember that session we had, practically more or less on more than half of those questions was the answer to the day. There was also a series of interpretations that we experienced with individual ministers, where questions also doubled. However, it is still necessary to answer certain questions that have been raised and are worth discussing; if not at least to look at another aspect of how a matter can be resolved. And if I can go in one order, I'll just count one pair. It seems very important to me that the Secretary of State has mentioned the values and also very precisely defined them, why it is right that we have them, when some of them, of course, on your side, you are refusing them as spontaneously as the extreme right does more or less always, because the right hand has always fought for those who have the money to be even richer. [[…]] For this fills man, I have heard this day. But it's really another form. The point is that what some people have repeatedly said is that it is necessary to fight against the black work, against the grey economy, that we have found in the right way the legal basis for those who have done simple and small work not least, to remember the case when Members here declared that they have ladies at home who iron their shirts and clean their apartment, then the next day it turned out that they did not have any contracts and that it was black work. [[…]] I'm really curious about who bought a fortuneteller on the side, because I'm sure you can't do all the hard work we're doing alone at home, but what I'm imagining is this survey. Nobody has it because we all work alone, which, of course, I don't believe. But times change. The other thing that seems important to me is also one question that is on the table, which is, of course, the labs for closing roads at smaller events, when firefighters, for example, organize a firehouse. These labs usually cost money and the biggest problem is, as the proposaler notes, that each time this laboratory must always order it. The government replied in its reply that, of course, it is looking for a solution or that they will, of course, simplify the whole matter, but I am sure that it is not the nicest thing to do if the laboratory is abolished, because after the accident or, I will say, any excess on the public surface will always be the responsible owner and not the one who organised the firehouse. However, it is very interesting to think in this direction that the laboratory commissioned by the organisation of the event for road closure may, in the following year or in the same year, if it reorganises the fun in the same way, be said in the same location, by presenting the same laboratory, if nothing has changed, of course it does not need a new laboratory. Nevertheless, it should be assessed whether this is the case, because otherwise we will have at once, interestingly, in Slovenia according to the famous Slovenian culture of one and the same events with the same scope, with the same prisons and everything will be identical, which of course we all know is not. Then the next thing I think is worth mentioning is the tax box. I remember the debate when there was no tax box. However, there were so-called virtual cash registers, and then I remember, on the other hand, there was a thunderbolt, after why there were no tax registers. And that virtual cashier's bullshit, stupidity, nonsense, and what else do I know? Today, when we have tax receipts, we are talking about how tax collectors should be abolished at individual levels. I must say that, of course, I agree with this: any citizen, entrepreneur or anything, if you ask him, he has no connection with the tax and, if only so, there would be no such tax. In the last 25 years, and even more in the previous system, we have been working very hard to avoid taxes as much as possible. But in fact, I'm sure that even Slovenians and Slovenes have slowly come to realize that if you don't pay something, then on the other hand, on the other hand, some social benefit, something that is public good, something that we actually call the functioning of the country, can't really be. And so it seems to me that this eternal repetition in the spirit of the pre-election story, which some of you already feel very strongly, is that, of course, it would just disappear everywhere, lower taxes, of course, where it is necessary and where it makes sense, in a way that's already a little recurring and nowhere really does it. Taxes must be fair on one hand, both vertically and horizontally. The fact that someone will be able to choose at a given time what will suit him more – either flatten or, of course, the direct burden of the tax itself – seems to me, of course, if there is no limit, and you propose a stop without limit, extremely unrealistic and I will say impossible. But it is true that some of you will sigh to the end and to the death when such debates take place. This is just because you have a different concept and another view, which is nothing wrong, the problem is that you think that everything happened only when you're in opposition. Let me end with what I think is important in this debate. I am convinced that every Slovenian and Slovenian, who is accompanying this debate on reducing administrative barriers, is sure to make things simpler immediately and to become significantly clearer, transparent and effective. However, in one very simple way to answer because we are before the elections and because someone in reality, and it has proved today, at least when I got this material in hand, that I actually asked myself how, in all the topics that have always been so striking, today all of a sudden this topic of administrative obstacles is becoming a problem of course, logically; outside the door is the SDS Congress, a new programme is being prepared, President, you will elect a new president, an old-new president, and in some way you will have to draw up a programme that is called at this discussion to see what is actually required. [[...]] So, in principle, I must say that, of course, I welcome the debate when it makes sense when it is argued. I can agree with a number of suggestions, but I am sure that the government's responses have, of course, given a very clear and appropriate response to things moving for the better, and I am sure that each government has contributed to reducing administrative barriers so far and so. To say that one government would be able to remove everything in one instant and arrange for us to live in India, of course, is absolutely transitory, and you can probably only convince your believers and those you will naturally convince in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u85	Procedurally, mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u86	Mr President, I propose that you conduct this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and remind the distinguished Mr Möderndorfer that he has violated it several times. For the first time, he didn't stick to the agenda, and for the second time, he's also a fundamental bonton not to go into debates at the level of personal insults and instigation, but he's dealing with what's content, so he's talking about things. If you disagreed with what I said, you should say what did not hold back from it, but not that you were making insults for half an hour, but you did not say a single specific statement. For if such a debate as has now been left, the honourable President of Mr Möderndorfer's debate has in fact been only a confirmation of how very real that old Murphy's law, which says that the widest open cabinets are empty. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I didn't see it the same way you did, but I allow the possibility that it did. If you want, we can stick to the same framework for both of us, for all of us. Then I will, I'm afraid I have to warn you constantly, but we take it for good. Mr. Janko Weber, please, you have the floor. Get ready, mags. Andrej Shircelj and Dr. Franz Ducky. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u88	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I think that this debate really needs to highlight the information and the fact that the applicant's introductory presentation has also shown that we have an extremely large number of laws, sub-legislative rules. And if we think that people within these regulations can be successfully found, of course, we are very optimistic. So they don't find each other, and that's the question that certainly leads to the situation, whether we solve it or not. I really believe that we should have laws written with a substantially shorter content, significantly clearer areas and themes, and, of course, as a result, we have significantly fewer sub-laws and many interpretations, such and different ones, which appear either with ordered advisory contracts or because perhaps someone, including the company, simply does not understand that legal provision. So this is one of the principles that will certainly need to be implemented in the future of Slovenia. So the legislation must be much shorter, much clearer, and I am sure that in such a situation it cannot then come to such cases as we have seen recently when someone loses an apartment, a house due to the debt of EUR 124 of unpaid bills, for example. This whole process, the administrative process that has taken place in this process, shows that many can pronounce themselves or do not respect certain provisions and when you look at all this legislation, you find that it is not actually cleared, that it is imprecise and, of course, that the price is paid at the end of the stage by people. It is therefore necessary to bring these rules closer to people, to prevent such nonsense, and I hope that in the future there will be more and more such proposals, although I am sure that they would make it very much easier for the whole business in the country and, of course, many of the administrative problems that arise if we maintain the system of operation of the Social Accounting Service, as it once was called. Of course, it is a system that can be transferred to the current functioning financial system with a different title, but this decision has, of course, blurred mainly financial operations and we also have a very large number of problems in Slovenia in these abuses. So one of the concrete proposals I see is certainly the reintroduction of the so-called Social Accounting Service; it can, of course, be a common accounting service, a similar term. In short, all the procedures under way must be substantially clearer and, of course, they must also allow everyone to see and understand what this is all about — whether someone has paid contributions or not, or whether the invoices are paid. And this is also the favourable business environment when we talk about whether someone will invest in Slovenia or not. If everything or to a large extent is really simple, predictable, then, of course, they will also decide to invest in Slovenia on a substantially larger scale than is possible during this period. The moment we talk about how to tax real estate and what model to use in this, I will also give these warnings, which I am also giving within the coalition of the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estates, which has not yet come into the parliamentary procedure, but I think this is specifically one of the new laws that will additionally burden property owners. It is a comparison of the compensation for the use of building land and the mass valuation of real estate. In fact, we have a simple law; the compensation for the use of building land is based on the fact that when someone, because they built something on some land, restricts the use of this land to others, so they pay a certain tax — a tax, a local tax. However, if there is to be a mass valuation of real estate, of course, there will be a general value first, and when we talk about the general value, of course many complaints procedures, evidence, whether the real estate is properly evaluated or not, are opened. And worst of all, it will be for those who have less money, less valuable real estate, because mass overvaluation will, of course, be higher than those who have very much money and very high property value for which this tax will be lower and, of course, will not complain about it. In short, the system introduced to try to achieve some goal of human empowerment is possible through such a non-transparent way primarily of tax and financial legislation. Therefore, I reiterate, the form of SDK is necessary. And, of course, it is also important to be very careful about how we tax or adopt new laws for possible new property taxation. This will be one of those laws if it goes forward, which will certainly cause very large administrative problems. As soon as you have to order an official appreciater to evaluate this property to you, it's an automatic extra burden you haven't had so far. The proposaler, however, sees in fact that he is somehow completely leaving the area of defence or security in his material, and in particular there is certainly no defence, which surprises me. Finally, the Ministry of Defence also pursues an extremely broad concept of the tasks that this Ministry manages. Finally, it interferes with both local self-government and, of course, the functioning of the State and the international field, but it is exempt from these measures, which I do not think is correct. Not primarily from this title, because there is also a lot of simplification to make the system more efficient. And what I want to point out is that, of course, many who are currently employed in the administrative part of the Ministry could be employed in the logistics part of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and thus, of course, they could also carry out those urgent tasks for the security and defence of the country that we really need and are missing. So it's an area where we lack people, but we don't solve them with appropriate measures, and I miss that in this paper. On this occasion, I would, of course, also make public criticism of the situation on the Defence Committee and, consequently, the reintroduction of the Force Command. So, we have the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, but this is obviously not enough; for those few thousand, seven thousand members of the Slovenian Army are additionally being introduced by the Force Command. Therefore, an additional administrative measure, an additional apparatus within the Slovenian Armed Forces system, which will reflect a system that will of course require additional employment, less transparent business. And, of course, this is a concrete measure that I can also track on the Defence Committee by the proposer, and this is one of the concrete cases where you are working contrary to what you are reminding us today at this meeting with this material presented. So we need to be very consistent if we are to achieve effective governance and governance of the country in all areas, but this will not work. If you miss one part, of course, you always open up the possibility of complaining to others, but others want the same status as, say, another area that is not touched at all in this area. In short, the work on these issues of removing administrative barriers is extremely large. And if we are finally just trying to organise ourselves in a way that introduces a uniform method of public procurement in the country, we have greatly simplified everything and also saved an extremely large amount of money. Why don't we go in this simple way of ordering? A simple question, and to this day I have not received a clear answer. But this is a concrete measure, because we would certainly also settle the situation. Not only in health, where I have highlighted this several times, but in this paper health care is very little worked out, but the common public procurement system greatly simplifies the business of all, i.e. the whole public sector and, finally, save a lot of resources. This is what the economy expects of us; if it is already paying benefits for what it creates, then it expects us to be as effective as possible in the use of these duties. These measures are certainly to a large extent possible to be implemented directly through the public procurement system, but this is also one of the measures that I have not actually observed in this material. Yes, it takes a lot more will for everyone to achieve this goal of becoming a simpler, more successful and more friendly country to their people, to their economies and, consequently, to all who come to us – either as investors or as tourists or something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u89	The word has magic. Andrej Shircelj, get ready for Dr. Franz Duck and Mr. Marko Ferruga. Here you go, Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! This material and these suggestions and objectives are primarily for people and entrepreneurs, for the first time, for people to make life easier for them in this country, and for the second time for entrepreneurs to create, produce and, of course, increase the well-being of people. One of the areas mentioned here is the tax area or the financial area. A number of measures, including those that do not require any financial means, including those that would do absolutely nothing to the budget, for example, to eliminate certain regulations which essentially duplicate the data with the Double Tax avoidance Conventions, see, nothing costs anyone, just cancels. However, the government’s response – or, I will just say, the Ministry of Finance’s response, because this answer is all one glue, which no one seems to have read in the final version, is flat, namely the government says it will respond to this area from a general point of view, and some views on the proposed measures are included. In very rare, in those who have been repeatedly highlighted, in those measures. But anyway, in these measures and these starting points, of course, the government also speaks about the tax environment, which is not the most important. That's right, Government. But it's part of the business environment. And I will continue with one case that really happened in Slovenia, in Gorenjska, namely, in the part of Gorenjska, a slightly more enterprising man fed cows in a particular area, on meadows, on pastures and, of course, also milked these cows, made sour milk, burnt milk and passedovers they walked and sold them, this sour milk and brandy for one euro, two euros, three euros. This is a real case. And then the tax inspector came. He could have been doing this for three or four months. And that happened two, three years ago. And this tax inspector, of course, could not make a tax base and so on, but he charged this man, who had demonstrated his entrepreneurship, with a fine of 4 000 euros. Four thousand euros! And this case I have already told the Minister of Finance on the Committee on Finance of this Parliament, at the time she was acting as Secretary of State, and she has just said that such a punishment is also in the teaching of others. And we have a friendly tax environment in the opinion of this government, in the opinion of this minister, then the secretary of state. This is reality, these are people, these are entrepreneurs who show their idea. And this is a tax inspection led by the financial administration, led by the Ministry of Finance, which is ultimately led by this government, Mira Cerar. This case happened two, three years ago. And now, if we compare this not only with a friendly tax environment, but also with how we are supposed to help small entrepreneurs and how we should take care of medium-sized enterprises, small businesses and so on – see, then we are far from it. Then the message or signal of this government is to these cows to go over Karavank to pasture. That's the signal, and that's the message. And of course, at all these starting points, with all these opinions on how to count on the OECD, on the European Commission, on the origins of the tax system, on international taxation; respectable ladies and gentlemen, to this man and to these people in Slovenia who want to create something, that means nothing. But what they mean is that it is easy for a person who shows an idea that he will do something, do something, or act — this government — brutally. And for entrepreneurship, this tax environment is killer. I'm sorry, it's based on this case. And he's not the only one. I don't know if you're going to do this with all those who start doing something, whether you're going to work with foreign investments coming near Maribor or not. But this is a message. The message is also that, of course, these answers, which you actually wrote here, are sorry, flat and underestimating. You do not define yourself, this government is not defined by concrete measures, only by some. Of course, there is a need to reduce the taxation of work, I will not talk about it today, nor will I talk about the tax box. In principle, we have heard and believe hundreds of times that these measures must be considered because they affect the budget. But there are at least 10 measures here that do not require any financial, there is no financial impact. And you do not define yourself, nor do you define how to expand the information calculation for income in order to sign in some other capital income to people, which would also be easily done. That's why once again, look, I'm a little disturbed by this response from the government, which is actually underestimating. He's referring to the Ministry of Finance, because, look, I already know the style of how they write there. And at least answer, at least answer the Chamber of Commerce, answer the Chamber of Commerce, answer not least to us and answer the people. And make a nice tax system and not just by saying so, because we're not taxing. No, but you'll be punishing me. And it will be interesting to see how much punishment has gone up and how disproportionately you punish people. This is with the thesis that has already been said here – people are afraid and you want to create fear in this country with just such cases, with such decisions that are not the only ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u91	Before we proceed with the debate of Members and Members, I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Tanji Strniša. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Allow me to take as a starting point the debate of Commissioner Shirtzl, who mentioned this case of milk processing in the mountains. Here I say that by adopting the Agrarian Communities Act 2015 we allowed the first milk processing on the mountains to be considered a agricultural activity, it is said that it is taxed under the cadastral income, that it is not necessary to issue an account for it and that the work of a shepherd on the mountain can also be carried out as a personal complementary work. Many other things can be done as personal complementary work in agriculture in the workplace, so for us the values are certainly not a bad solution as a sector. And here I would say, if you'll allow me to make too much of a deal with these numbers around the regulations, and the Agriculture Ministry has been exposed as a resort with a large number of regulations already at Friday's board meeting. And I have obtained accurate data and look, over the last four years, it is from 2013 to 2016 that we have adopted at our Ministry 444 regulations, of which 155 were amendments to regulations. But compared to the period 2005-2008, 694, 56% were accepted. I am not saying that one or the other is better, except that the rule itself does not necessarily mean a bureaucratic burden anymore. Or, in this particular case, which I previously set out — the Agrarian Community Act. See, we passed 19 laws between 2013 and 2016. Of these, there were 14 legal changes and 5 laws were new. Let us see what new laws are and whether they bring new burdens. The law prohibiting GMO cultivation – genetically modified organisms – was expected, in the public interest, not to be allowed in Slovenia. The Agrarian Community Act; I mentioned a little bit earlier about work, processing milk on the mountains. But what is more important about this marriage? It is important that we have been able to manage this property at all, which means 4% of the area in Slovenia. And there was nothing to do with the land owned, co-owned or jointly owned by members of the agrarian community; it could not be sold; it could not be obtained; it could not be agreed on on on the building permit; it could not be obtained on behalf of the service, for nothing. We have laid down by law that a consensus for normal management is sufficient 51% and that for some other transactions a slightly higher majority is required. And in short, we have made it possible to manage this property, it is said, the Agrarian Community Act is a simplification, an important simplification also as regards the placement of buildings in the space, if this is the case in the land of the agrarian community. We passed an intervention law after the ache and after the frost. Both marriages are what? In fact, they are intended to help the affected. The acorn law has brought a number of simplifications to make it possible to enter the forest at all. That there was a train there, so that trees could be removed from the road and things like that. The last law we adopted is the Law on the Management of State Forests, because it was also an urgent solution. In short, it is not necessary But it is only laws, we have in our field a number of regulations, which also means protecting human health, animal health and plants. [[…]] So let's say in the last year, we've adopted two regulations on crows and rabies that are what? Protecting people, human health and animals. And then also some veterinary regulations proposed by stakeholders to protect animal health. But in general, look, the area of agriculture, forestry and fisheries in the EU is governed by 21 000 69 rules. For 2 million Slovenia and 80 million Germany. And counting how many rules someone has per capita is impossible. So we have to implement all these regulations. And according to our government's legislative service, 58% of all European regulations are in this area. If I conclude, I would also like to say about the tax registers that it would not be a mistake to think that a farmer must have a tax box. The tax check must be made by the person who has to issue the bill. This is, of course, if someone has a complementary activity, if he is a taxable person. However, according to the rules on income, we have removed the threshold of EUR 7 000 500 of the cadastral income, which was previously required to enter the bookkeeping industry, so that if a farmer does not wish, he does not have to have accounting if he is not a VAT taxable person. In addition, we have set out to keep books on intensive cultures. That was last year. What used to be considered as as asparagus, I don't know, strawberries and things like that, is now no longer the case, but these farmers can have more cadastral income and they don't have to keep books, so not bills. So there's no need to have a tax box on the market either. There is no need to have accounting for the above-mentioned EUR 3 000 500 of complementary activities in the case of small processing of agricultural crops. I just mentioned earlier for processing on the mountains and pastures. It was also mentioned that there are no measures for small farmers. We have for small farmers, Mrs. Nice Šimenka knows well, we have done ten measures for Haloze and similar areas in Slovenia, which I will not repeat because we have dealt with them at least three times in the National Assembly. I would also say that there were also two proposals in government material. It is one of the reasons for demobilising European regulations, where we have made important progress, because there are a lot of measures, if I mention only subsidies or a lot of aid after natural disasters, de minimis and similar, where farmers simply return the signed application that we create on the basis of the register data. We use all the data from public records, and subsidies on the surface are fully automated and electronic, and we simplify things in investment measures. It is true, however, that from this number of European rules, agriculture at European level is too much or very regulated sector and this reduction in the burden on farmers cannot be solved even by a European level. This is a permanent topic of agricultural ministers, agricultural commissioners, important simplifications in terms of controls to ensure, on the one hand, the purpose and usefulness of the use of European funds and, on the other hand, consumer security, but it has not yet provided the right solutions for the EU. But we are looking for them when it comes to national measures, where we are trying to make them as administratively as possible for farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Tilen Bozič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. In a few points, if we call it that, the Ministry of Finance is challenged and so is the case. Fortunately, we're a lot of people here today. I'd like to thank my colleague Strniš for somehow dropping into the farmer's field. You also made a good point about the case that you mentioned two to three years ago; I don't know exactly which particular case it is, but I can say so, obviously there was a problem, and then it was solved. The Secretary of State from the Ministry of Agriculture gave a nice presentation. It is said that what is considered to be a basic agricultural activity, how it has been approached to somehow regulate itself as regards complementary activities. Here, too, the views were, normally, within the Government in relation to various departments, perhaps slightly different, but in the end we reconciled, changed, and these, too, can be called, improvements or positive changes in the agricultural field. So as far as that's concerned, the system works. It is true that debirocracy is often swimming against the current because, in a way, we can say, there is a problem for any solution. That's true. This is precisely why we welcome somehow one basic direction of the government, and even after all, if we look at individual ministries. The Ministry of Finance also has debarcation as one of the main objectives, and this is taken into account every time a law is drawn up. If we go to look not least at what was in my area, the real area of excise regulation is the so-called Treasury Act, if we go to look at the area of customs legislation, if we go to look at the Tax Procedure Act, everywhere there has been changes made in existing laws that help us to go in the direction of debarcation, to make it easier for the debtors to take into account that technology is developing and that more and more things can be resolved electronically in such a way that, in fact, from their own databases of information systems, they export data in some standardised way, then they import into the Financial Administration system, whoever it is then that things work so that they do not make multiple entries. Certainly one of the objectives is that if one information is once known or given to the State, of course it is not required again. But there's still work to do. Finally, this common cloud, driven by MJU, is being introduced. I think it's a very good thing, and as I know, it's on time, as planned. We are all working on this, and we are sometimes fighting, but these are such movements, which I think will also enable all citizens and citizens to breathe and work more easily, and this will certainly be welcomed by them. What you said about some disproportionate punishment and so on. I believe mistakes sometimes happen. I do not define myself as a case because I do not know him, but proportionality is used in the normal procedure. So, for the first time, it's usually a way to warn someone, to give them a reminder, there's no financial implications. However, if the infringements are repeated, of course it is escalating. First, it's a lower sentence, higher and so on, within the range. At the end of the day, these penalties can be really significant, even with some aim that, if it is too much, the debtor is said to be creative and has been warned that somehow his over-creatured creativity in the wrong direction is denied and that he prefers to engage, it is said, with creativity in the field of his own business. Of course, the vast majority of taxpayers pay exemplaryly. This is also seen by the creation of new information support, when in fact we make better assessments of the risk of the debtors and, of course, we deal only with the few percentages which our compliance with legislation poses certain problems. Those claims, which were mentioned earlier, that people were told must be helped and not punished, which I fully agree with. I think that even though there is a lot of money in the tax box against it, it says that there is a certain additional administrative burden, which still has a positive contribution, it was one example, in my opinion, that good practice, when the debtors were informed, dealt with them, explained them, came to the field by inspectors and so on and somehow through cooperation came to the point that today the system works in the vast majority. As for the fact that many young people are leaving the Republic of Slovenia, I think there is still a little need to look at statistics. I think we've done this a couple of times. Also related to lower taxation; I have already said this many times that lower taxation is intended to achieve higher inflows to the budget – this is not linear. Certainly, however, one of the U.S. newspapers, perhaps more conservatively directed, has an interesting article about this topic about May 1st, in which they find that the empirical evidence that if you drop taxes will be greater inflows or that there will be a major impact on economic growth is not. It is a set of measures that must be taken to make the matter work. That is why in this spirit again what has been said here – the fact is, taxes are one of the measures, usually some garlic on the cake. So when you put all the measures on the ground as they must be, some strategic orientations, then you can give a little bit of incentive to certain elements with taxes. However, in order for taxes to solve problems on their own in such an automatic manner, this is not the case, since, in general, when tax solutions were used to be safe and only on this basis was the whole policy on how something would start to bloom, grow and flourish, it usually proved to be the opposite, or rather those objectives that were intended were not achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Stare, Secretary of State of Replica, has the floor. [[…]] Mr. Mag. Spread out, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u96	Thank you very much. For a very short time, I'd just like to replicate Tilna Christmas, the Secretary of State. Look, I don't know if sometimes we live in two worlds. I believe that all that he said and so on, how should taxpayers be helped so further, that it is in some theory that even in some government documents, but in the field, completely different things are happening. Completely different things and one of the cases I told you as a signal to the tax environment in which entrepreneurs live or people live and live. And secondly, see how with reduced taxes, how do you achieve higher income? Yes, by actually being a bigger offer and creating more demand, this is quite clear. If you have the price of 20 cents of gas in Slovenia or 30 cents higher than in neighbouring countries, then there will be less consumption and that will result in less tax in the budget. It's the exact same thing. It is also somewhat similar in the case of corporate income tax, as well as some other taxes relating to personal income if you increase employment and so on. Look, you don't have to look for evidence in America and I don't know where, you can look at the budget of Slovenia for 2007 and 2008 and you'll see these solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Darko Stara, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted in the context of further discussion, however, given that one of the proponent's leitmotives is the fact that it is necessary to try to reduce the number of regulations, laws and so forth - several times has been repeated in our country, as many as there were 91 in fact and now - I would just like to realize how unrealistic this expectation is in fact and I am sure that it is a demagogy, which is, of course, pleasing to people who do not have all the data, then they are, of course, confused and believe. But it is a mistake that is unacceptable and irresponsible for those of us who are discussing here. And now I'm going to tell you two statistics or three first, and then I'm going to give you a metaphor of how unrealistic and impossible it is to make these words come true to the extent that you imagine that you are capable of doing so by means of measures when you have the opportunity, even though you have already had it several times, by the representatives of the party that proposes these measures. See, in the European Union, this is the official data from the end of 2015, we have 11 thousand 547 regulations in force, we have a thousand 842 directives and 18 thousand 542 decisions of framework or framework decisions which have been sent by non-binding but which define some areas of social life that should be arranged in a comparable or meaningful manner in all Member States. This is now like having someone – here we now have some legal space, legal rules, some mechanism called regulations, directives, etc. – as in the field of sport; on the field we have 20 players for a particular type of sport or 11 on the playground for football and now someone will go face someone in the same space on the same playground with three players. This approach is illusory and ineffective and also irresponsible. Unless this approach implies a solution that we have already experienced in this society and is then paid by taxpayers when the applicants leave office – Zujf, when you regulate 43 laws with one law and then we pay 20 million euros back for solutions that are essentially unconstitutional. These are bad, I would say, procedures and bad measures, and we, the Government, this government does not approach this way, it has a different approach, it has different measures. They're legitimate, too, but they're usually ineffective, dear in these cases. Not to speak in the area I am currently representing, the judiciary, when even in 2004-2008 the Law on legal tariffs, i.e. even a host of areas, fell into one story and then, of course, the matter fell and was unconstitutional. However, this is the case — the most exemplar case is Zuyf. When it sounds like it, let's do it instead of four rules of one. Simplely defined areas are so specific to social life; you can see that this is impossible by the resources. In addition, we have some regulatory framework in the wider community, which we call the European Union. And in the field of laws, as I said in the opening statement of my position or opinion: if we compare ourselves with Austria, which has twice as many laws, we compare with Germany, which has six times more laws, we compare ourselves with other countries, it is said that we are essentially relatively good if we have only 894, given that we have the same legal rules in the same legal space. So how real this is, what you're predicting, I'd like to experience. But I hope it's not the same as Zuif's case. However, we have one fine example on the table that the Government will adopt in the field of the regulation, and we have already begun to coordinate the interdepartmental professional coordination last year – an example of a regulation on the handling of seized items and the property of illegal origin. We have four regulations regulating this area. The legal basis in the law is two: the CAP. However, since these are different types of items: weapons, illicit drugs, goods and property, this is regulated in four different regulations. This will now be in one regulation, but nothing will be disputed from the point of view of the law, but it will be simpler, more efficient and all in one place for users – both operators, i.e. law enforcement and justice authorities, than those who are committed in this area. But you can't just merge the law into one story. This is for me, because I say, if I really think about it, it's like going to the playground now with three players against eleven; it's just not going, but it's against the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Tillen Bozič, Secretary of State, excuse me, Mr Janez Janša. [[…]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u100	Yes, as well, the Secretary of State could have spoken earlier. I don't think it would make any difference, because this, which is the last hour and an hour and a half, we're listening to it from government representatives, a little worried. If I understand correctly, it's the fight against bureaucracy, and I'm hampering the fact that you have more and more regulations. And Slovenia can mate with European regulations so that we also have a lot of rules. Otherwise, these data we have heard about the 500 million, yet, the European Union, have fewer rules than we have, that's not much. And that's too much. The first priority of European citizens or citizens of countries that are members of the European Union is that Europe is too bureaucratic. And brag about how many rules there are. Sorry. [[…]] As I said before, in all normal, decent law schools around the world, there are some axioms that apply here from Roman law onward. More regulations, less freedom. More rules, less legal certainty for citizens. More regulations, more red tape. More rules, more corruption. And here we're hearing that it's the other way around. That there are more rules, more freedom, better things and so on. There must be some regulations and so on, but forgive me, 20,000 laws and regulations for 2 million people! We used to say wrong. That's not 200 on one, that's 100 on one. One hundred inhabitants or one regulation at government level. One marriage after this statistic, as you have here, is 100 or 10 or 20, a thousand almost says, one marriage is 20 acts by law. [[...]] There are countries where there are virtually no laws. So what you have previously stated is that some members of the European Union have more laws than we do, of course they do. However, they do not have 20 sub-legislative acts per law, because they are able to regulate or even have no sub-legislative acts at all, because they have different constitutional arrangements. The government can't prescribe certain things itself. Here we are talking only about the state level. Then there are city regulations, municipal regulations and everything that is alive, which also binds citizens and citizens. We didn't even mention it because it's usually a smaller problem. All we're talking about here is state bureaucracy. So I'm a little worried about this debate. It is not possible to say, of course, that every regulation is a problem and that it is an obstacle, but when it is accumulated, when we have statistics the way we have it, of course, it can only go one way. This is the direction of reducing oxygen and living space for citizens and citizens. Who's capable of finding themselves in a swamp like this? Then who's profiting? Yes, of course, the one who then arbitrationizes and the one who sits and settles things. And the worst is this one about Zuif. Here we listen to representatives of an administration, people who were already in an administration selling fairy tales to the Slovenian public. Why was Zuif accepted? Because the government of Mr Pahor in the year when Slovenia's gross domestic product fell by almost 10%, public spending increased by almost 10%. Look at the tables you put in the material yourself. Only for the salaries of civil servants are you or are there in the year – even some of the customers who are here in the government today, two of them were present at the time – according to these data you have here, more than 300 million in one year more than before. 10 %. At a time when we and Europe and the world were hit by a financial economic crisis. It was therefore necessary to adopt Zujf, because there was no time for 50 different laws to go into procedure, because it would take a whole year not to know how much the referendum demands of trade unions and everyone else who thought the money would grow on trees would have been. If it weren't for Zuyfa, you wouldn't be bragging about economic growth and these results today. I mean, terrible bragging and giggling with foreign feathers, but at the same time, the criticism of the action that made it possible. Since Zuif, all governments together have not taken as effective measures as Zuyf did. Zujf saved Slovenia and stabilised Slovenia's public finances. If a couple of articles have been cancelled and so on If Zujf is such a problem, why don't you break it, because most of the provisions still apply and you graze on them and brag about it. [[…]] Propose a law with one article: ZUJF no longer applies. We'll see what happens next day.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas has given up. Mr. Darko Stara, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u102	Thank you. I'm not going to go into a deeper debate but an argument, but you can see that it's simply a negotiation, and you're an absolute master of words and always change the thesis. There's no point in which solutions were bad or good in Zuif. It is a matter of regulating 44 laws, but not in the way that you say today that 44 would be abolished, but simply by one intervention in 44, in a way that has simply affected a large number of people, but also had positive effects. The point was, according to the statistics, to the laws. And if you're talking about countries that don't have regulations, I want you to list them for me 5, 10 – and I don't expect that right now – in the European Union. But if we compare ourselves to Austria, which has, I don't know, I think, according to the latest data, about 9 million people, and we have 2 million, they have once and a half more laws, but they're not counted. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] They have, but they are not numbered: the Austrians have, and the laws of the land are not numbered, as in Germany. And it's illusory to expect that, I don't know, the area of penal law in the Criminal Procedure Act is regardless of the number of populations or residents in one country – you need the law. [[…]] And the same applies to agriculture, tax and so on, this is regulated by laws. Since we have signed the European Convention on Human Rights, when a country rules an area, it must be regulated to the least extent possible, but by law. Slovenia has only signed the ECHR Convention in 1994, and we cannot boast about it, even though it has been in force since 1957. This calls for a democratic approach, which is most expressed as an element of the rule of law and democracy, by the laws adopted by the democratically elected representative body of the people. It is you, honourable Members. This makes such a difference from 1991 until now. And to manipulate it seems a little irresponsible, given that we're in the same legal space, that's all I wanted to say. But I don't doubt that with these 894, I don't know, compared to the Austrians who have 2 000 500, we get to 700. Maybe, but that's not the point. A greater point and a more efficient society will be fully than the community, all of us, if we exercise what we have effectively and responsibly. Since we do not have bad legislation, we have very comparable legislation, but we have a problem in relation to legislation, in relation to these values, expressed in our legislation and in the responsibility of implementation, implementation. Because we always switch sometimes for political and prestigious reasons thesis and darkness, and then we see only bad or we don't want to see anything good, and the taxpayers pay for it. And when we go beyond this level to essentially work with constructive criticism, with constructive political discourse, even in fact a greater degree of cooperation, the decisions of all of us stakeholders in this society will be better, more reliable and all future actions will contribute more effectively to making progress as a society in terms of the well-being and effectiveness of the functioning of all bodies, including the executive branch of the authorities and the National Assembly. So I think this is the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Duck has the floor, please. Let's get Mr. Marko Ferruga ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. It is interesting to listen to this debate. I admit I was more registered at the beginning, so I moved. However, if we look at the number of laws in force in Slovenia, it looks like this. Regardless of the so-called left, right government, it's quite steep, it's a fact. Now the important thing is that we live in a hypernormal society. Sometimes a man gets the feeling that we're going to have, I don't know, a law about how I'm going to pet a calf on my back. That's a fact. Why we have a lot of sub-legislative acts, one of the two parliamentarians who has been here since 1991 knows very well – that every government, left, right, whatever, does little to avoid Parliament. The State Secretary of the Stara is a very important topic. The task of the National Assembly is already as set out in Article 2 of the Constitution — no one has said anything about the Constitution, but no matter what government we have, we have too many laws that are unconstitutional — to monitor the implementation of legislation. And in this light, I see this report well-intentioned, despite some great ideological differences between me and the SDS. We actually have this problem. Some comparisons by number with these countries, with those countries; I don't think we're going to get far here. When I listened to this debate, I wrote here a trench, moving, and it happens to be the address of two parts of Janez Janša, but we have to make some movement through the trenches in these some of our debates. There will always be someone, "you from the executive branch", and this debate here will take place in a way: the one who is from the executive branch is some kid we caught eating three more cookies, and then he defends himself somehow. The key problem with the Slovenian political space – all three branches of government, in particular our two – is that we cannot take a few steps back. To discuss again whether Zuif was good or Zuif was not good; I agree with Janša here. We're supposed to be out, which I've been sniffing for three years. Zujf was a temporary measure that has now become permanent and as a result we have a huge generation gap because of Zujf in many sectors, which will beat us very soon, for the next decade. In some sectors, we already have an alarming average age of employees; however, I could not look from Owl to where. The fact is also, I can honestly admit, before I came into this aggregate state of politics, I have been more involved in social development strategies than just European countries, up and down. I can agree with the Secretary of State for Taxation that, of course, taxes are important and that they have to come from some strategies, but we in this society and in this country have somehow not been able to agree on what we would like for 27, 28 years. But you know, no matter who's in Austrian politics, which is often mentioned, five, six is a constant. Despite the fact that I do not like the current Hungarian policy – the Hungarian foreign minister comes and says puff, puff, puff, puff, puff. The key problem of Slovenia is that, with the exception of rare exceptions, we have not made decision makers in over a quarter of a century. Let's get real. Most Slovenian politics is a bit of a travesty. Well, that's a little bit like that, you wouldn't. In my mother's language, I wish I wasn't vulgar. [[…]] And now, of course, we're kind of on to you. The fact is, of course, that some kind of marriage could be cut short. We had such a typical example — well, here something changed — of guarantees for some highway sections. I talked to people, of course when I came to Parliament, I had not dealt with the law in a very narrow sense before, and many said that there was a number of areas that could be regulated by one field law, and several laws govern it, let us be open, often because of the interests of some lobbying. You have an area, it's governed by a number of laws, it's regulated by several regulations, it's regulated by several regulations, and of course there's a lot more room for a milkshake than it's called. Of course, we live in a society that is more complex, more perplexed than it was a quarter of a century ago. Some areas of course need actually more legislation, but the fact is, and here I have to agree with some of the cases that have been mentioned and which I would also like to point out that, of course, today in this hypernormal society, one has to almost make a small doctorate out of law if one wants to do anything a little bit more serious. It is also true, when we always say, that the EU, because we are part of this EU. The EU's current leading groups are the EPP to which the SDS belongs. Three of our eight in Brussels, including my representatives, are from the SDS. I somehow follow what our MEPs are doing, but I don't hear that there's too much chatter there, all eight of them, that the European Union is hyper-legally normal. Not just yours to keep me from being unjust. I can't hear that. And that's a fact. And what gives me hope because I'm running out of time? On a business trip, I met, among other things, the son of someone on this government side, a state secretary, 30-year-old, working in a difficult business environment, changing his job several times. I told him, look, in five years, I need you in Slovenia to throw you in Mercator for three days, and you tell me very clearly what the situation is. Five years from now, this young man will be able to do that. In closed and open sessions, I can list some 10 people from England, or if you want to bring them back from the UK, because they've learned something. In this way, the debate – the baths we are going here, we will not actually make any progress. And that's basically some key issue. But if we are already talking about the economy and development, we need to start talking about those who are creating it. It's the workers and the work. Austria has been mentioned many times. I have lived for 10 years near Austria, I know very well, there is much more in Parliament, in political programmes of the parties and in public debates about work. And I haven't heard those words here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Ferluga has the floor to prepare Mr Bojan Podkoršek. Here you go, Mr. Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and the rest of the staunch here in the hall! I listened with great enthusiasm to France; we have roughly the same mindset and [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] To a large extent, I agree with you and you said a lot of things that I wanted to say. But we're going to this thing that we're talking about today. Man has a feeling, however, that these 77 measures are still some kind of mini-interpellation of this government or some list of wishes not only of SDS but of craftsmanship, economic and all other chambers to put it all together in one such broad context. These proposals are actually from A to Z everything that has been going on in this country for 25 years. Sometimes someone gets amnesia and remembers all these measures, but we have to be honest. This government has received the situation as it has been from the previous government, and this government cannot be blamed for all of these cases, which have been going on for 25 years. For these three years when they are responsible, they must absolutely accept their responsibility. There's no doubt about it. When we talk about how long it takes, whether it is enough, I have always been in my head, which sounds like it was at the beginning of this term, our colleagues in the SDS have shown us that there are not enough laws. Now that we've come to this other half, in the second half, we're told there's too many laws. A man wonders what's right now. There's something right once, and another time something's right. However, I absolutely agree that laws, sub-laws, regulations and so on must be effective, targeted and clearly that we all want them to be absolutely so as to contribute to the greater and better development of the economy and of all the other subsystems that belong here. Mr Janša also mentioned once that in one government mandate you cannot do everything that is right. I agree with that, too. This government has some normative work plan. From this normative plan of work you can see both the timeline and what is meant to be done. But when the government changes, there'll be something else. But here is once again this point that the French mentioned earlier that all the old, traditional governments that have some tradition have an exact fil rouge, they say they have some red thread through which, regardless of whether it is left, right, middle, whatever government has that main red thread that then takes all the things and is known to be done. When we are dealing with these administrative obstacles, we have come up with tax receipts, but tax checkers are not administrative obstacles. But then you always ask yourself about some tax culture that's in this country. If this government managed to obtain 57 million from these tax receipts, it is said that these millions were somewhere where they were not in the country's budget. But it's just one of those. If I comment on this proposal of yours, I think there is no one here who would not advocate that we should first create and then share, because without creating solidarity, not social and other public subsystems. I think we all agree here. Higher productivity of the economy also means higher wages, greater solidarity and more investment. No problem. The public sector is only needed as an effective and rational service for citizens and economies. Absolutely. That's what I think we almost all want to do in this direction. But when we talk a little bit about these laws, there's been a lot of talk, but I find this table on page 2 interesting. Here we also have Professor Mrs. Bon Klanjšček, who does such mathematical exercises, is full of interesting to look at. For example, the 2004 period was 673 at the beginning of the laws and in 2008, when Mr Janša's government ended, it was 740. If we do this quickly mathematically, we immediately get the difference between what it is. Then, when it is said how many of these laws were made by this government, it is again a domestic task: in 2014, there were 880 laws that were passed or were adopted, and 2017 there were 834. And beyond that little difference, you immediately know where we are. The same is true of undermarital acts if anyone wants to play so little mathematically at home. But it's just like that, by the way. Speaking of which, it's okay, you wouldn't be okay. It's never okay, even if we look at what we have in front of us today. And yes, I absolutely agree that we have a hypernormal regulatory state, absolutely. Life isn't ideal in itself either. But we have to be so honest that we say, yes, there are positive trends, it turns to better. But if we look at the negative, which is also right and saving in democracy, it is also right. Everyone has their own view. But there are some facts, some tendency is that it goes in some positive direction and thank God that's so because I think it's good for all of us. Then I wanted to say that we can also debate speed and efficiency, I will say, these measures, and if the direction is right, I absolutely agree. And that's why I'm taking this as some kind of constructive SDS proposal. But as I said before, this government has set itself a normative plan and is implementing it. As good as it is not will draw the line at the end of this government and people will see and decide who was right and who was wrong. When we say that we would convince the convinced about what is positive in Slovenia, what is possible and what is not possible; everyone knows that he is right, it will never be a threat, it will never be that everyone will be satisfied, they will never be satisfied, they will never be satisfied with the answer or with the action or with the facts, but it is so. That's the way it is in life. And for some, everything will always be wrong, and others will say, okay, it's good, it can be improved, you have to find out how it's going to be done. However, the nonsensians are bureaucratic, even by various inspections and so on, as it was when the tourist entered not with a hard č, but with a soft č, but it is a matter of inspection and other services that they become a normal country to somehow react to one normal life event. But then, unfortunately, when it's in the power of a state authority, it becomes kind of powerful, and then it has to be kind of calmed down and put in some way, the right direction, as you would like to say. Speaking of what are pluses and what are minuses, I don't think today makes any sense. But I have to admit this tact and strategicity that the SDS has to file for 24. 4th, just before the holidays, these suggestions that the government put in some sort of squabble and were in time trouble. But this is again this tactic and strategy of this policy and these political games, so it is also necessary to step into the government's defence, to give answers and write that, it is said that within 30 days she does not have to report on what you have made as one of these four proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Podkoršek has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go, Mr. Underpants.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u108	Mr. Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Speaking all afternoon about the administrative burdens of our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I firmly believe that we face these problems all the time when we are outside the National Assembly, and especially our citizens and citizens face it. As we listen to each other today, I feel that, above all, the representatives of the government and the coalition party feel we are condemning this government. It's not like that. But the question arises to me that you claim certain things, as if in the winter you were showering with cold water, and we offer you warm water, and you claim that your water is warm. I don't think that's right. If in any area in the National Assembly, when citizens and citizens accompany us, we certainly all understand here where the problems are. Mr Ferruga said that the list of pious wishes is the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Slovenian Democratic Party. I think this sentence is very inconclusive in the National Assembly. If these are pious desires. But the representative of Desus said earlier that this was an unrealistic idea. And I don't think it's right for us to listen to each other in the National Assembly because it's our citizens and citizens who elected us to the National Assembly. Now I say only two cases that all of you in the coalition will understand what the administrative burden on our citizens is. When you founded the Slovenian National Forests a year ago – surely the biggest coalition party is already regretting this act – after one year Slovenian citizens can no longer buy wood for wood in this state forest. They can't even buy wood for wood anymore. This is an administrative burden for Slovenian citizens. It's under your government. This morning or this morning, he was in my office, a gentleman who, despite the fact that those working on the technical examinations were very kind, but he did not understand what he had to do, according to his household, with that moped who did not prove that it was his, and he had it in his house for more than 20 years. [[…]] That he must now walk in the village with two witnesses, and he must also be careful that he catches the age of these witnesses. Dear Government, this is an administrative burden for our citizens in the Republic of Slovenia to understand what we want to tell you. Of course I'm going back to history. We heard how many laws we had today when we gained our independence. All afternoon we listen to how many laws and regulations we have today, when Slovenia is old, it is almost 30 years old. But today, when, on the initiative, the permanent initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce speaks, as well as the Government, the representatives of the Government, that these are some of the pious desires of all of us sitting here in the National Assembly, but that these are the pious wishes of those economic segments that put in the state treasury every day I think these sentences of the coalition as well as the representatives of the Government are unseemly, and I think they underestimate those who live in this Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] Of course, if I touch on the impossible classification of legislation, spatial legislation, I must say that I personally support the Government's emergency law in some segment for a company near Maribor. Thousands of problems, however, are faced by our entrepreneurs, when they receive additional work, sign a contract and, of course, want to expand their production premises, and they have been unable to do so for many years. I don't think we all live in one country. We are talking about 20,000 laws or regulations under law, but never before has anyone mentioned any other regulations imposed within the congregation. Let me touch the deadlines for the issue of consent. That's what we heard today. Citizens must respect their obligations for a minute, but someone who gives their consent and gives their consent does so freely after Prešeren and I think that is wrong. Dear Secretary, Secretary of State, I'm sure you face great difficulties with bureaucrats every day. Your ministers, the Prime Minister of the Government, don't want to admit that today. I don't know what that is. I must also say that in the Republic of Slovenia we certainly also have good bureaucrats who are working hard, who are doing well. However, there are many ministers who take six months to follow the minister, who may have little regard for one year, and then they are aware that there will be elections soon. And, of course, we are leaving the mandate, but citizens and citizens have bigger problems every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgle. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u110	Yes, thank you very much. We continue where representatives of the government basically taught us, for the first time, in theory – that we do not really know the functioning of the public administration, that we do not know the essence of the regulations, the constitution, and that everything, we can say, simplify and that some things are not given. Look, if something goes wrong, it's typical bureaucratic thinking and a person who works his whole life in bureaucracy will think that way because he's raised in this circle and he can't get past all of this. Here I hold the script for postgraduate studies of law students, administrative colleges and everything else Public Administration Organization, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Dujić. I did his exam myself. See, in the second part of the script – this is the second part, we still have the first part – is the chapter Eliminating administrative obstacles. Because you wanted to teach us a theory, I'm going to teach you the theory back. But what does this theory say? The whole theory for students of the Faculty of Law on the elimination of administrative obstacles is an elephant on the first Janša government, so Prof. Dr. Janša, President of the Government, therefore, all elephants on the first Janša government. Specific examples. Let's just keep going. At the end of 2005, the government adopts a programme of measures to remove administrative barriers and then, even in the coming years, pursues the objectives of effective public administration, introduces better regulation in the area of regulatory preparation. Individuals can finally make comments, opinions and proposals that could contribute to a more effective elimination of administrative barriers. The programme contained 34 measures, followed the current situation, and for each important measure was a deadline for implementation and a responsible ministry or specific contractor in the Ministry. Where the implementation of the measure also requires a modification of the rules in force, these rules shall also be laid down in the individual measure. And we're moving on. What did they introduce? Anti-b filter, anti-b group. So an organizational unit in the Ministry of Public Administration that takes care of filter administrative obstacles. Representatives of the economy. Anti-b regulation control. Highlights on the frequent procedures for citizens, such as registration of car registrations, renewal of the marketing authorisation, income, personal document and so on. For the first time, it began to talk about the fight against bureaucratic thinking and arrogance. That's also one of the problems. Promoting flexibility and partnership. Promoting innovation in public administration. This was the first time in the government of Janša. e-VEM as you know, points all in one place and so on. I don't want to talk about the whole theory. We can move on. Specific illustrations of the first government's measures. Eliminating administrative barriers. Ministry of Environment and Space, Action No 8 – Simplification of the procedure for issuing the building permit. I think citizens and citizens will remember that. Action No 9 — Establishment of an electronic system of accessibility to various records in the area of space regulation. So simplifying the issuance of the building permit. What was done in particular? Reduction of the number of consents, suspension of location information, regulation of simple intervention into space, rapid notification and criteria, reduction of the scope of project documentation, reduction of the number of procedures for obtaining environmental impact assessment. Typical case at the Ministry of Environment and Space. Ministry of Work of the Family and Social Affairs, measure 11 of the first Janša government – unifying the criteria affecting the decision on social rights, simplifying the procedure for the exercise of rights at birth, reducing obligations for businesses in the field of safety and health at work. The removal of the classic workbook, we have forgotten that, too. The introduction of a social card, the establishment of electronic management of employment registers for individuals. The following action, Ministry of Finance, Janševa government, is the first – simplification of the procedure for paying public financial benefits, removal of administrative collections, if you remember. They say it's impossible here, too. We always have to pay for it, it can't be done, it can't be done, it can't be done. Simplification of the administrative certification procedure. Eliminating administrative other obstacles, savings with the state business portal. The e-VEM was then established. Acquisition of data by official duty instead of users. Remember, you come to the counter and they say, but you'll have to look somewhere else for some official information, even though there's a computer there that can connect to the network. Savings on the abolition of local jurisdiction. Possibility of making forecasts for the local government's income assessment, mainly at microlocations. Extension of the validity of the marketing authorisation, e-extension. Then we can go to the e-government system that was introduced. All eGovernment, eGovernment and so on. So today someone is speaking to you who has practically proved what can be done in one term. But if I go back to the macro. Why are we doing this today? We do not make a campaign for election, dear colleagues, but we are aware that the current situation is so favourable that you boast about it and that in three years, even if we get the government, it may happen that the situation will not be so optimistic at that time and now we want to make an environment that will be competitive for foreign investment, respected colleagues. Don't compare, please, Austria, in some cases it has a little more rules. Wait a minute, that's 8 million people, there's 2 million of us, there's 370 billion gross social product, there's over 40,000 euros per capita, there's not even 20,000 of us. They have 9 countries, etc., totally different legal arrangements, etc. Then you compared the United Kingdom. And you know that in the United Kingdom they have earls, they're divided into 48 earls historically, etc., not to mention anything else, about a completely different administrative arrangement. And look, at the time we looked at two aspects: the orientation of public and state administration to users and the service function of these people, and the service provision of services to people working on global markets every day. And Slovenia, when we put it on its feet in 1991, we were aware of the shortcomings of a small country and the advantages of a small country. The advantages are rapid flexibility, immediate response, immediate renewal of certain systems, and that would make us more competitive, despite some setbacks. And we followed these guidelines for a while, but then what followed? In a political sense totally, so Janša was an enemy of bureaucrats, various procedures, bureaucracy had no more, we can say, there was no government that would rule over bureaucracy in Slovenia, there was no what happened and bureaucracy in 2014 made a party, goes to elections and wins with 35 Members or how many. Full parts of the public, state administration and the parastatal sector come and today the bureaucracy of the government. This is the last, last degree of Slovenian bureaucracy. And so on practical cases that we can already do, we prove that we can and that we want to. And these are not proposals from us, but the voice of the people – Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, people who have experience from abroad, Chamber of Agriculture. And only in fact is their voice speaking to you today – a voice to which we have taken quite a few steps. And here we ask you to listen to us not to speak utopianly but to speak from practical perspectives and also from our own experience, that bureaucracy could also be directed towards users and that it was in terms of service for citizens and citizens. That's all we've called this meeting for today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mrs Vojka Shergan. Here you go, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are therefore talking today about the de-de-barcation of Slovenia and the related measures that we have put in place in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are therefore talking about a topic that concerns practically every citizen, especially the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian entrepreneur. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have been warning all the time that, in particular as regards some good, healthy entrepreneurship and economy, a competitive and stimulating business environment must first be created. But colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately we don't see it. Even today, when we listen to the debates of State secretaries, all we see is that there is no listening to the solutions that we are preparing in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This has also been well seen in the Committee on the Economy; virtually no action has been taken. Of course, we keep reminding ourselves that if we are to start an economy, we must also relieve entrepreneurs in tax and administrative terms. Of course, we are also talking about the need to privatise non-strategic state-owned enterprises and to spend European resources efficiently – we still have problems – and sometimes look a little over the board and support foreign investment. I must say that I am very disappointed with the economic policy of this government, the Government of Mira Cerar. Since its launch in 2014, it has practically not implemented any measure to facilitate life in the country, in particular for entrepreneurs. All of us in this National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament have been given the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship The opportunity for progress. I have a feeling that some have not even read it, let alone wanted to take some steps that would encourage a better business and working environment. So we get these cuffs just like that. But today we are preparing measures that are also linked to the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, but already on the Committee on the Economy you have peacefully rejected them. If we look a little wider. Unfortunately, this government has not undertaken any structural reform either. Let's get some fresh wine. There is no pension reform, there is no labour reform, there is no health reform, there are only some approximations if I limit myself to these. And I am not talking about the reform of the judiciary when the Minister comes to this National Assembly exclusively with some cosmetic amendments to the laws, even though the reform of the judiciary would be urgently needed. In short, it has already been said several times today that we need faster, more transparent procedures, especially, colleagues and colleagues, simpler procedures. But it would be even better if you cut them down, these procedures, and you keep increasing them. The only measure you carried out at that time in relation to the economy was the introduction of the tax registers. Now we see where we are. And the first measure taken by the new government will, of course, be the abolition of tax boxes, the abolition of various stickers, the abolition of carriers, valuations and so on. Why? So that Slovenian farmer and Slovenian entrepreneur can breathe. Now we're squeezing him. This government simply chokes the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian entrepreneur. I don't know if you're too little on the ground, but my colleagues have already told you before, and I'm going to say, even when I meet people on the ground, they're often disappointed because they feel like no one listens to them. But if someone listens to them, say from the government, then nothing moves in the direction that would be better for them, but they get hit more, they get hit more. I am not just talking about the Slovenian farmer and the Slovenian entrepreneur. Even if we look at the public administration, even if we look at the health system, doctors; I've just talked to some people recently and they've told me that they're simply dealing with more form than content, that they don't literally have time for patients anymore because they have so much paperwork. And that's the problem. How can this system, this country even breathe and come to life normally if it is repeatedly choked by various procedures? We have proposed a series of measures in the SDS, as we have done several times, but they are always rejected as under the current lane. Today we see a considerable number of State secretaries. I'm glad you're here. I am also pleased that you are responding to things, because this means that you are still aware of how important the topic we have opened up in the Slovenian Democratic Party. If you become more effective, then we'll all breathe more easily together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor. Get Mr. Jan Škoberne ready. Here you go, Mrs. Shergan.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Yeah. In fact, first of all, I would like to point out that the special work of our government has been that it has actually had to bring the country back into economic independence, that it is politically stable, that it has achieved social peace. For without this there is no change, no progress, and even then no good business environment is possible. I would say, however, that the results do not indicate that there is no economic growth. Consumption is increasing, unemployment is the least in the last six years. All of this is a positive business environment. Also in attracting foreign investments, our government is successful, since in 2015 the value of foreign investments amounted to as much as 11 million 564 and in 2016 these figures were expected to be even more favourable. It has brought in quite a number of successful international companies, such as Yaskawa, Magna and some others. In short, stable economic growth and forward-looking forecasts are beneficial. This was also assessed by the International Monetary Fund and forecasted 3% of growth after last year's forecast was 1.8% of economic growth. Even the spring forecast of the economic trends of Umar is forecasting 3.6% growth in gross domestic product and, as I have already said, unemployment has also decreased. From this point of view, Slovenia is not moving away from the EU average today after economic development. Slovenia is becoming more recognizable than the country in which it is worth investing. Of course, the most growing exports have been affected by the improvement of the economic situation. Since you mentioned earlier that we are not successful in drawing on European funds, I would, however, like to point out here that the accession of the Ministry of Cohesion in this government has been very successful and has absorbed for the period 2013-2015 all the funds that were essentially earmarked and that the funds envisaged for the next period are all measures and all are in fact going in the direction of successful drawing. You said that the request of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry was disregarded, and the Chamber of Commerce. I can argue that when I reviewed these requirements, that some of these requirements have been met, namely in the field of the importance of vocational and professional education, it was an initiative to introduce apprenticeships. They provide an enabling business environment and access to funding sources; this is also successful, especially funding sources provided by the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and, in fact, allocates substantial funding to all these small and medium-sized enterprises, including during the crisis and also for operating resources. Also in the direction of service activities that became an economic activity, this was the Law on Funeral Activities, which was also adopted. So it's just a little bit fast, which is mentioned in the requirements of craft and entrepreneurship. Then I would also mention tax measures to promote a favourable business environment, and here I would like to stress that the basic purpose of the measures is actually a more equitable burden-sharing and a reduction in the tax burden on income. The Slovenian economy will only be able to create more jobs with added value. In the case of tax restructuring, a change was made to the income scale, where we achieved a uniform tax burden for debtors receiving active incomes above 1.6 average wages. They capture high-skilled and most productive debtors, which also contribute to higher added value and higher GDP. Excluding part of the salary from business performance, then raising the income threshold for higher additional general relief, here in fact increased from the current 10 thousand 866 to 11 thousand 166. This is said to be 300 euros for the lowest wages actually earned on this income scale. Tax incentives for investment and research and development have also been maintained and remain at the same level. In particular, tax reliefs for investment and employment that are higher than general should be mentioned. These further reduce corporate taxation in regions where nominal rates are raised and did not affect the reduction of investment decisions, as it also appears particularly in those regions which have received these special incentives. Investments themselves appear to be on the rise, including in the spring forecast of Umarja, as gross investment in fixed assets is showing a growth of 7% for 2017 and 7% for 2019-6% for 2018. The fact that the government is not actually responding to your recommendations and that we are not responding is not true. As soon as we had the Committee on the Economy on Friday, the Government has examined all the recommendations well and also responded to all your recommendations and we see no reason why these recommendations should actually be supported now, because in fact there is a precise explanation of how and how they should be approached, I will say, these recommendations. However, according to the obvious number of laws we have passed in our government, some data indicate that during the government of Janez Janša, the government adopted 67 laws and 2,807 regulations, while the government of Mir Cerar adopted 22 laws and 1337 regulations by the end of 2016. And it doesn't make sense to divide these rules by number of inhabitants, because, whether it's a small country or a large country, I mean, the same rules are needed and you can't divide them into residents. I think it's a delusion. In addition, at the beginning of our term, you have shown us, in fact, that we are not adopting any new laws, so that this rhetoric has now completely changed in the second part. In fact, I have also noticed that, in the beginning, I know, especially on the Committee on European Affairs, we have listened to how far behind the ministries are practically bringing European directives into our legal order. And at the beginning of that time, we also wondered why such a backlog or why past governments had not been more active and, in fact, transposed these European rules into our legal order. There is also another observation regarding carriers, which is like an additional administrative measure, which you keep repeating here that this is a bookkeeping charter. I would just like to point out here that this charter is a completely simple document; someone who transports wood must have a photocopy of the urea permit, which is in fact already a kind of charter, and this applies in particular to those small and natural persons who have forest. So I don't see what a big administrative measure you're essentially multiplying and magnifying would actually be. For the record, I'd say so. Of course, we are not satisfied with all the measures concerning the removal of administrative barriers. We also know that there is still something to be done in this area, but all this explanation or response to your recommendations suggests that the Government is working hard at this, that we are working hard, and that we as Members are also alerting ourselves to the fact that there is a law in place, that everything should actually be simplified to make this legislation more viable on the ground for people. So I think it's such a pianist thing today, and it doesn't actually have any special effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Danilo Anton Ranc. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u116	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The government's lawyer just said his thing. I think that those of you sitting here on the government's side have heard a very special lecture from a connoisseur in this area. And I think she said everything that you probably said when you responded to what we prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I must say that I am very surprised that you have chosen such a person as your attorney for the government, because those who have listened to this debate have probably come to their views on what kind of party this country is leading. I was not surprised that some of the Members of the SMC took a step out because they said it was better to leave the Chamber because what was heard was simply far from what is the essence of today's debate. There's some data, it's all mixed up, you don't even know what it's all about — whether it's salad, it's pears, apples or bananas, and so on and so forth. So it's very problematic that someone gets into a debate, and they don't really know what it is. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today citizens and citizens have a clear picture of what it means to defend pure bureaucracy in our society. Just the presentation of the government and the team sitting here and the majority – I must say this because it is right – from the coalition parties that defended this state of affairs in the country in the area of bureaucratic obstacles we have, has clearly demonstrated how it advocates pure bureaucracy and a purely bureaucratic state. It couldn't have been better. It just couldn't have been better. After everything we've written, what we've said, what the Slovenian people say to you is that it's simply not possible to live normally in this sad society created by this socialist or this communist or red falanga that's been running this society for over 20 years. You simply don’t want to understand the point that we want to tell you — that people can’t stand it anymore and can’t live in such a sad society and that something has to be changed. We have rightly pointed out certain problems, certain bureaucratic obstacles that we expect this government to change. If they are not there, they will certainly be changed by the government led by the President of this party, Mr Janez Janša. Trust me. Because that's what the Slovenian people need. What you're doing is simply going to a dead end, and it seems very irresponsible to me and to the detriment of all citizens and citizens. I'm only going to give you one last case, because I have very little time. It's on fire with me, so in my places, a gentleman came to me to ask for my help. The story was that he just got a building permit, built one house, and then one of his neighbors decided to build a garage three metres from his house, one of which was a garage with two floors. And he put the garage right in front of the kitchen window, as if now the president or chairman of our session turned against the wall. That's how he looked at that garage. And the administrative unit issued a permit without any problems. He brought certain documents there, they said, on the basis of these documents, there is no problem in issuing a building permit because everything is legal, everything in the wasteland and so on. Then, of course, logically, there was nothing left for them to complain about. And they complain about Ljubljana, it's the Ministry. The ministry just needs so much and so much time – I'll tell you why I'm saying this – and then issue a document that just gives some guidance back to the administrative unit. And the administrative unit just decides what to do. And the administrative unit decides, at that second moment, because I asked the representatives of the administrative unit to go look at the problem on the spot. For four and a half years, the problem lasted, and they did not go to the city to know that this was unacceptable, that it was extremely confused with every living logic! And then they went to look over there and they said it couldn't be. That's amazing. That's impossible. And in the end, of course, they issued a negative permit. And now that the same person has complained twice to the Ministry, there is an opportunity to appeal to the administrative court. And the whole story lasts five years for one such thing, although when someone complained, they would immediately leave their place, their office and go there, look at the matter on the spot and see that the other party is lying, cheating and immediately acting and so on and so on. It lasted five years until I showed up! And people asked me, "Marian, please, we don't see the solution anymore, come help us." And we are talking about this story in the Slovenian Democratic Party! This is a society that has no way out, except, of course, when it takes over the leadership of this country, the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with a new team that will join this national assembly. This will certainly be the next election. Because you, my friends, are no longer to be trusted. Because I'm not going to quote numbers here and see what else I don't know how much time I have left, I'm sorry. [[…]] [[…]] [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] See what you wrote in one of your paragraphs when you responded to what we have just prepared in the Slovenian Democratic Party. You wrote: “We would certainly like to point out in the introduction that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware that for a successful industrial rebirth with the aim of ensuring better competitiveness, it is important to the business environment, and in this context it is not only possible to talk about tax policy as one of the most important, but it is only one of the most important indicators of the attractiveness of the business environment and it can only be one of the tools for stimulating the economy as a whole and attracting foreign direct investment or foreign investment. The regulated legal state, the regulated infrastructure, the predictable business and political environment, access to markets, the skills of the labour force and the complexity of administrative procedures are the factors in the eyes of potential investors that enable the achievement of business objectives or the achievement of profits in the first stage.” Today we suggest and tell you where those problems are because the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, all of them put on the list, and you can read here what it says is what needs to be done in order to be what you wrote here! You wrote it yourself, that's what the economy wants. But you don't do it, just like that. And today you're saying that it's a waste of time that we're going to devote to helping people to solve this problem today. [[…]] You're just saying that it's wrong, that it's some kind of political footnote and that we're just picking political points and so on. And look what they wrote in here, since you can all read it, says: “The expectations of German companies investing in or demonstrating potential interest in Slovenia are the following: reduction of the tax burden on salaries, elimination of red tape, deregulation of the country and the economy, flexibility of labour law, reduction of public debt and restructuring of the state budget, and continuation and completion of the privatisation process.” Look, they told you nicely, this is a developed country that has a developed economy where the system works. And we told you what to do, and if we were to take that back, that would be all right. And there's something else to conclude, and now I'm closing. If you read this: social work centres, reorganisation of social work centres, I won't read it because I don't have time, I'll just tell you, I've been talking to those who work there. And you know what they told me? There is only one solution and the best anti-biocratic step is to immediately leave her post as Minister with her team. Go to the Social Work Centre and they'll tell you the same thing, no matter what political option you're from.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go, Mr. Rance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u118	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Good greetings to the Members of Parliament, Members and representatives of the Government! I have repeatedly stressed that the economic themes lie with me. I'll say it this time, too, because even though sometimes something isn't the best thing to hear, it's actually just the economy. From this point of view, I welcome the debate on the economy because I have repeatedly stressed that the only economy that will bring us any greater added value creates the conditions for the development of society, the country and all of us as a whole. Of course, you can't get rid of the impression that things are taking a pretty black picture, like this country is just before some collapse, that it's going to collapse. In fact, our indicators, both of them, show exactly the opposite. And if we're assessing a situation in a society; the best indicator of how this country or society works is some positive trends that are currently showing up: some economic growth, a reduction in unemployment and so on. So from this point of view, I am optimistic, and I think that this government has done its job here too, and that a long-standing negative economic trend has brought positive trends, positive trends. Let me write down some numbers or some pointers. Exports are increasing and industrial production has increased. This increased population consumption, then increased investment, and foreign investment increased. In the first two years of this government, as I have already mentioned, economic growth has increased, the public deficit has also decreased and is less than 3% of the gross social product. In this year’s quarter, Slovenia created a government surplus in the second quarter of 2008 for the first time. Slovenia remains one of the countries with the highest economic growth among EU countries. After six years, unemployment fell for the first time below 100,000 and in 2014-2015 some 50,000 young people were working together. Of course, here – not exactly in numbers and in decimals – is certainly a list of some positive economic trends and I think that the measures taken by this government have led to an improvement in the overall economic situation. As far as the ministries and the proposals you have made are concerned, I would say in particular that the Ministry of the Economy has already given itself these tasks in its activities as you state them. In fact, it is also literally a copy of some of the activities of this ministry, which has also achieved great positive trends in the field of tourism. This is also, after all, a long-term measure and the right orientation and direction of the country to achieve even better results in this area, on this untapped occasion, and that we have already reached over 10 million nights. Not to repeat, the tasks you list in these proposals are the subject of the Ministry's activities, but, of course, a number of measures to improve the business environment, to reduce administrative barriers, and then to implement a number of public calls that enable companies to declare with ambitious programmes, in the area of developing investments with financial support, enable entrepreneurs – smaller, micro-enterprises, including larger companies – to implement bold development plans. It also stresses the Ministry's regional policy and equal control of Slovenia, the so-called polycentric development and the balanced development of Slovenia, as well as less developed regions, which is also reflected in concrete laws and support schemes that enable this. Of course, I cannot go beyond some strategic decisions and recognize some of the important comparative advantages of our country. I already mentioned tourism. It would also touch the timber industry as such, where the ministry has also taken a so-called sectoral approach to the creation of a Forestry Directorate that will ensure and enable the development of a wood industry that has, for such or other reasons, been at a minimum in recent years, and of 50,000 employees, the number of jobs has decreased in the fights of 10,000. Even if I touch the area of infrastructure. There, too, we had several discussions on how to recognize the importance of infrastructure projects for the multiplier effects of some economic growth in a country. And this also happened with the final decision of this government on the organisation of a second track project and some important infrastructure projects such as the electrification of the Prague-Hodoš railway. There is also a transport strategy and a resolution on the national transport programme. This shows that the country recognises, including the Government of infrastructure – especially road, municipal and energy – as the basis for the development of the country and, of course, creating the conditions for investment by domestic and foreign investors. Of course, I cannot go beyond the important infrastructure projects and the allocation of additional road rehabilitation funds, which have increased since the two million in previous years and previous periods of government, is now around 200 million euros a year. This means, of course, one huge contribution to improving municipal and road infrastructure. It is also an important decision on the so-called energy renovation of buildings, which, of course, enables the use of natural materials, wood wool and other wood materials to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and in this way also contributes in its own way to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and reducing carbon footprint in individual products. As I have already mentioned, I would also like to touch on the activities of the Ministry of Economy, which has adopted several laws that have in some way improved the conditions for the economy and have created a more friendly environment for the development and work of companies. This is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Trade Act, where it is a deregulation of professions, then the Law on Funeral Activities and the Law on Promoting and Developing Tourism. There is also a proposal for a law on a supportive environment for entrepreneurship. Of course, it is not enough to create only laws and conditions. The Ministry of Economy has also recognised that good development and investment projects need to be provided with financial incentives, and this is about encouraging those sectors that are in some developmental backlog and are a major development opportunity to use our natural resources. I have previously touched on tourism, of course I cannot pass through forestry, and also in this area a number of calls have been issued to enable investment and the development of this sector, which has great untapped opportunities for us. Of course, I would also like to point out that there have been a lot of foreign investments in recent times, I will not mention individual companies here; this is obviously evidence that, with the appropriate design approach of the Ministry of Economy and with the good cooperation of all other sectoral ministries, which are linked to the project, the creation of an environment for many foreign investors who will invest in demanding production in the automotive industry, robotics and other promising industries. Well, as one of the activities and the approach to how friendly a ministry can be to users: it is a special application of calls in specific areas in the Ministry of the Economy, where it is possible to take a simple approach, which, of course, was not possible earlier, to monitor quickly and up-to-date all calls that are up-to-date, and also with appropriate information support, to complete these forms and forms very quickly, so that, of course, positive solutions can be made quickly and more quickly in specific areas that regulate them. Let me just mention that for forestry there are about 5.6 million resources, both returnable and non-refundable, for regional development and social entrepreneurship around 66 million, the internalisation of entrepreneurship and 220 million technology and for tourism calls around 7 million. Of course, I would also like to touch on one very important law that we have adopted on the proposal of two ministries – agriculture and the economy. It is the Law on the Management of State Forests, which has been mentioned today. Here it is a broken, revolutionary law, which is a bad practice for twenty years – a period when individual concessionaries literally exploited our common wealth and, of course, the profits were poured into some unsuccessful projects; whether it was an activity that had no contact and no connection with the timber industry or forestry The law, of course, allowed many wood centres to be established in Slovenia to produce wood harvesting and processing that would allow this natural resource to not be exported without added value and that we will restore the timber industry, employ up to 50,000 people. [[...]] This means, of course, an exceptional opportunity, one revolutionary approach to the sector and activities that have been neglected. Of course, it is difficult to expect the quick effects of this law, but I believe that the law has articles and regulations that allow just what we all want to exploit our natural wealth – forests and timber – and that we would not export it without added value and that we would not become a colony to exploit our natural wealth. If I draw the line, I would say, of course, that I appreciate that the Government has managed these negative trends in economic and economic growth to move in a positive direction and that, for these reasons, I am of course assessing that there is no need for any additional specific drastic measures, but I believe that there will also be some of these measures that have been proposed, what kind of a place in any sub-legislative act and what solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert has the floor to prepare Mrs Irena Kosnik Grošelj. Here you go, Mrs. Anya Bah Gibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. It seemed, even from other faces, that it was very painful in this room to hear how the coalition was trying to find ways to avoid supporting the proposed measures. Sad, isn't it? Sometimes, indeed — I am probably an idealist or an optimist — believes that a common goal is to do something good in this country. And now I'm listening to a lot of readings from the pildks about what this government has done right now. Look, we are talking today about proposed measures that are not or are currently bad. And not now to explain, I don't know what kind of marriage you've adopted, but there's a third one there, what's in there, there's no one. This is not only evident to you by the Slovenian Democratic Party and also by proposals not only by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but also by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and we have clearly written down here the proposals of citizens and citizens living in this country, those who benefit from 20,000 laws and regulations and tell us that this is not the case! And answer that, please! In its opening remarks, Minister Koprivnikar spoke of certain rules or regulations that had some effect. If these effects are such as the effects of the Law on Intervention Measures for the Balance of Public Finances of the Communities when you led them through the water – first you took the average of them then you took some of the intervention measures that were brought to zero – then if this is his data, thank you very much for this data! Wake up, reality is different! You took the average from the municipalities and, on the other hand, to the most beautiful place in Slovenia, where we still do not have the Slovenian flag on the castle, Ljubljana, and you offered some projects for 300 million. By the way, even in this most beautiful city, there's a stand waiting for 15 days. You wait 15 days for one stop! I'm going to have a little bit more time with your introductory debate today, Mrs Kolesha, when she said that it wasn't so bad that she organised a public tribunal. Yes, or smile!? However, the event is not a public tribunal! Whoever has organized one event in the Slovenian space at least once knows exactly what complications you have to deal with in order to get all the documentation in the first place. All the elaborates have to be prepared, Your Honor! And then it's not possible to make a copy pasta at the next event, but a new one, I'm sorry. And that's why someone's sitting there paying for it by the taxpayers, when it's just taken from the archives, put it in there, and the thing would go on. The perceptions of the SD that these are just some of the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry – and to stop at them – are surprising to me because we are speaking, but that we have a left-wing government. I also hope that today Semolič will be out protesting against this government, because look at the action you are taking. Reductions in labour costs and changes in income scales in the way that workers, in particular those with minimum wages, receive higher net wages. And the left government won't support it. Where's Semolich? I'm calling him right now. On May 1st, it was all a pleasure to talk about the rights of workers. Here, when you have concrete proposals, the concrete measure has been silent. These are all measures, but I understand you won't take it. You know why not? Because I have the Ministry of Finance's reply here, but the last time I received the Ministry of Labour's oral response – and SMC's – when I asked them to tell me how many businesses in this country pay the minimum wage for workers. “We have no data.” How many workers does he receive under a minimum and have to receive supplements? “We have no data. They are not But we have 20,000 laws and regulations and there is no basic data. Shame! It is the left government that we do not even know to which and how many workers we give allowances or give businesses extras to the minimum. Not only that, I also asked if any companies are owned by the majority state. There's no data either. This is the state of the country. And now the SD's response that these are just some suggestions from someone else. No, we have concrete suggestions here. With what has already been said, the abolition of valuations and so on. Why do parents have to make applications for child support and kindergarten subsidies each year? Why? If you give it to me once, it'll work. Any changes will occur. If someone doesn't believe in someone, then you better watch where the funds are being used. Here's the problem! Here's the problem! Just go to the Roma settlements, and you'll see what the problem is, where the baby supplements go. Are they really about kids or maybe some cars? But here we have a measure. For the Slovenian family. Don't let her play the part every year. No, you don't care. Then we have a measure that mothers will not have to go from Pontius to Pilate just before the maternity leave, and so on, one of the employees, then to the center. It's automated, respected, in an orderly country. The data is collected. It shall be withdrawn from the system, calculated and compensated. But no, mothers have to deal with these things just before they give birth, some are practically in the maternity ward. So much for family relations. Look, this is a measure. It's a simple action, but you don't want to talk about it today. You here read from the sheets what's done. Dear God, in two, three years, you've done something, I hope. But we're talking about what isn't and it would be good because that's what citizens and citizens say. And also this measure, which has already been discussed today. Our people are expected to answer within the deadlines — whether they have any idea or no idea — some hire lawyers to do so, to answer a variety of questions and do not know what decisions the ministries make and to help themselves to interpret — while there are no deadlines on the part of the State to answer them. There's no answer. Citizens and citizens turn to us or not to us, but to the country – there are no answers. That's something to talk about, too. They pay this country and pay it hard compared to European citizens and citizens. They pay her hard. But there are no answers. So look, I would like answers to that, but obviously you're not capable of any constructive debate on concrete proposals. You really don't read the pilds about what happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mrs Irena Grošelj Kosnik has the floor to prepare Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go, Mrs. Irene Grošelj Kosnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u122	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear representatives of the Government and representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party has sent us 77 recommendations and this material can be said to touch all ministries in the government. Logically, in fact, administrative obstacles relate to the rest of life — from birth to death. This government has set itself an important objective to reduce these administrative obstacles. It is essential that the administrative rules resulting in, in particular, sub-legislative acts become more relevant, that they truly serve the necessary data, analysis records and that they are as meaningful and rational as possible for those citizens, citizens, employees, entrepreneurs who need to produce and transmit them. And in this regard, the government in the Coalition Treaty and also in operation has set a pretty clear path for this to begin to decline gradually and to increase efficiency, competitiveness and economic growth. We have received the Government's material, where we have been given a very comprehensive and concrete response to what measures have already been taken and are being implemented in this direction. The government has presented this very precisely in today's debate, and we have heard this several times. I'd just like to point out those that seem kind of important to me. I think that the novelty of this SME test is that all the laws in the regular procedure are being tested according to whether they bring any additional administrative burdens, and I think that is a novelty that will need to be reinforced and continued and used strictly. Then the project “STOP bureaucracy!” I'm not going to list the contents because we've heard this a couple of times today. The project of deregulation of professions or of reregulation of professions and simplification of entry conditions for the performance of activities is also continuing. Construction and spatial legislation is being renewed so that the investment risk can be reduced and the placement procedures can be rationalised and faster. This way, we'll all get to the building permits faster. Some of the recommendations can, of course, be accepted, particularly as regards promoting the digitisation of the economy. So, I see that, with regard to the general objective of eliminating and eliminating unnecessary, non-economic administrative regulations, we are in this general objective at the same wavelength. Of course, we have different views on how to achieve this and, above all, on the assessment of what has already been achieved, which is, in fact, a perfectly normal thing for the position and opposition. I think and I am convinced that this government is aware that overriding affects every day almost every citizen, every employee, economist, entrepreneur, farmer, school, hospital and thus can maintain a negative spasm of uncertainty, inflexibility and incompetence. And I am sure and also I see that we are working in this direction, that we are aware that we need quality and motivated government officials who will be able to follow this objective – that is, a changed culture when adopting regulations, in particular under-laws. This will make us even more legal than the rule of law. All these measures, which the Government has taken so far to reduce unnecessary administration, are certainly reflected indirectly in some of the results. This is certainly reflected in attracting investors, as investments increased by 13% compared to last year. Economic growth has become stable and Umar is forecasting even 3.6% growth this year. Above all, the most important indirect impact for the population and citizens is increased employment and much higher employment opportunities, where we have achieved truly envious results, since we have for the first time, for the first time, fewer than 100,000 unemployed for a few years, and 27% of net growth in employment is forecast. It is said that the economy already shows a good blood count, which also indirectly indicates that the grip and cramps caused by senseless administrative rules, which take oxygen to the economy and the enterprise initiative in general, are already in the process of reducing these administrative barriers. And, of course, after almost 30 years of laying down rules and regulations, we can only work and work gradually. And these 77 measures – 7 is a human fairy tale number – if 77 measures were to achieve the full balance and full achievement of the goal that all the rules are reasonable not to repeat themselves, then they would almost live in a fairy tale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenka, the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. I wish we could live in a fairy tale sometimes, because we have the potential in Slovenia that Slovenia could really be one story of success, perhaps it is almost fairy tale. It was exposed to this, I will say, portal or project “Stop bureaucracy!” I have also done a little digging on this side, and I must say that there are also a lot of good initiatives for citizens and citizens, concrete proposals. I was a little disappointed, though, because the very portal entitled “Stop bureaucracy!” should be the one who would then be really responsive or to the proposals that are somehow exposed to you here, expecting 100% of the response. But you also have comment statistics there, and from the 15 ministries, there's only four of them drawing a happy smile, which means the answer was given within a 15-day period. At seven, the answer was given, but after the 15-day deadline. What does that mean? I don't know. For one thing, there was no answer at all. There is no data for individual ministries or competent authorities, but, nevertheless, at least here, we might expect 100% response, responses to the initiatives of our citizens and citizens. However, I would like to make a slightly more concrete stop to some of the measures or to explain to the Government why these measures proposed are not good. I am going first to one measure which was given by the citizen, namely e-guilty. Hungary has a similar system, it is also introduced by Austria. And there's a bunch of adjectives here, why that wouldn't be good or what all the weaknesses it brings. However, some of them here too will now be exposed, and any data link failure to the central system will make it impossible to effectively control them. That would just be one of the systems. I am concerned if this is possible then in any system used in public administration. We probably have a business continuity system in general and I'm worried that, let's say, something like this even thinks that this could be the reason or the possibility of unauthorised intrusion into the information system. I don't know, so nothing in the public administration could work if we were afraid of it. Just as security is provided elsewhere, it would be in this case. After: »The installation and implementation of mobile control is not possible without redirecting the channelling of traffic. Foreign offenders must be stopped and sanctioned before leaving the country." However, it is also likely that foreign citizens are driving in Hungary, and it is obvious that these things can be dealt with in an appropriate way. I really don't understand this, this weakness you're referring to. And this: “Carina and the police will not have the conditions to exercise control, so they will no longer exercise this control.” I'm sorry, but I don't completely understand that. In what sense, what is that supposed to mean? Then: "Because of the increased number of offenders, part of the detected violations will be incomplete, but the e-guilty would certainly require additional toll supervisors on the ground. In both cases, this means additional costs.” I'm sorry, I drive down the highway every day, and I see these toll controls a lot of times, and traffic cuts to see if they all have vines or not. I don't know if we would have electronic vignettes, in what form would we need more of these toll inspectors on the ground? I can't imagine. This is precisely the purpose of introducing electronic vignettes to avoid them. Then: “Users would need a time to get used to it.” I mean, the reasons why I just can't understand them. I believe that neither citizens nor citizens. I will now stop at two more suggestions, which were made by the congregations. The adoption of municipal spatial plans is indeed a major problem. Rare are the congregations that manage to do so quite quickly. We know a number of congregations, where procedures last for many years, even for ten years. And when you ask them a little bit about the reasons why they actually need so much time, the key reason is that the ministries don't respect the 30-day deadline. While the Ministry of Environment and Space is particularly exposed here, I personally find that the Ministry of Agriculture, which does not answer within 30 days, takes on average 6 months – and I am interested in the Ministry of Agriculture, or actually holds – and that in most cases is the main reason why the procedures for the preparation of municipal spatial plans take so long. The second is the scattered construction in hilly areas. The proposal, which was presented, is very well written that, of course, scattered construction would be possible where it is a hilly area where it is a poor demographic picture of that area and, of course, where all the infrastructure is actually needed in the immediate vicinity, which means that there are no obstacles to building at that time. I have to say that, of course, individual congregations have a major problem with this because simply dispersing construction is not possible. And you need to realize that somewhere other than scattered construction is not possible. And areas that have already been deprived in one way or another; many have moved away, yet may inherit some part of the land, are ready to move back, the mayors are willing to settle whatever else is necessary, but simply do not get permission to distribute the construction there. It is simply difficult to understand why some things are blocked, but in fact it would also be a great help not least for Slovenia to be more evenly developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u125	Mr Ljubo Žnidar has the floor to prepare Mr Ivan Škodnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! If we ask citizens who are listening to this session today, or all those who live in the Republic of Slovenia, where the difference between the left and right governments in the Republic of Slovenia is essential, I think everyone has overlooked and the answer would be very clear and completely on the palm. We in right-wing governments stand up and build a country in the real sector. The real sector is either an economy or, more broadly, a sector that creates. Of course, we are also aware that there is also a need for public sector support, but to an absolute lesser extent than we have today, because the public sector must only be a service to citizens, an incentive to citizens, of course, as to all those who want to create. That's what you call an economy. In the left-wing governments, you're building a state in the public sector. That's a priority for you. Let's create another office, let's write some new laws so we can do so much and so much more jobs and so on. We listen to the praises of how the number of unemployed has decreased in the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, it is, but it's because you're hiring them in the public sector. And, of course, those young people who go out, as well as those who are hard at correcting this statistics on the reduction of the unemployed. That's the reality. And, of course, the public sector. This is chocolate, for there are these administrative obstacles and, above all, how cannot certain procedures or certain things be handled, how can this not be done, how is it not, in short, prohibits, commands higher penalties?This is bureaucracy, which is, I would say, that heavy bullet with a heavy chain – not around the leg, around the neck. [[…]] In Slovenia people would like to work very much. They want their jobs. But first we give him a bureaucratic bar around his neck so he can't start some business activity so he can survive himself. And we all want to pay you a tax. Everyone would pay taxes and work fairly, but there are so many obstacles with us that, of course, already on this initial path many, many of them in particular despair. If I put in a few factors from a variety of tax receipts. We can't look across the border in Austria where they have flat-rate taxes. If we take one self-employed plumber, he can't do 500 hours a month or a thousand hours. On an annual average, 176 to 185 can be made. Is it difficult to tax such a self - employed person on a flat-rate basis? No, there isn't. A very nice example and a sample in Austria. Not with a lot of red tape, a lot of accounting documents and so on. It is also accounted for in supplementary activities in small farmers. In eight days, every bill has to be confirmed on Durs. Up to 30. Another six, up to 30. 3. give such an account for the past year, up to 30. 6. In the administrative unit, it's like there's no wire between Durs and between the administrative unit. Everyone needs to be given, in particular, every commitment to the complementary activity. This is not a bureaucratic obstacle for you because every small farmer – the data are in GERK – can be calculated exactly every year, what and how much and for what value he has converted. It's very easy to tax, very easy, but no. We must create so many and so many bureaucratic jobs. But that, I would say, costs and puts the country in a year-to-year debt rather than balance public finances. We're avoiding that, and we're avoiding that. The fiscal rule also makes certain commitments, but we're not gonna respect that, no. Let's spend three times as much, I'd say, as we're actually producing, and that costs. And once again, countries cannot be built on the public bureaucratic sector. No, it doesn't survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u127	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor. Prepare Mr. Zvonko Lah and Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! Today we listen all afternoon to these administrative burdens of citizens, especially those of small farmers, entrepreneurs. Of course, many things have also been said correctly, and some things may be overlooked. I might start by saying the things I experienced when I actually went to the elections and later, of course, we came to the government, and also probably in my client, the modern centre, there were probably more of them. Why? Because we were just disappointed about things that have been happening in the last decade or even more. I was just working in a certain area, and I was monitoring things, and somehow I realized that things were going to have to be stopped. I was thinking about the kids, about the grandkids. And when my colleague found out that I had somehow volunteered, joined this party and that I was going to the elections, he told me, he had been in government or politics for more than 20 years: "What are you going to do now, where you're going, because it's all messed up, because you can't do anything, it's all fucked up." I just said to him, "That's why I'm going, but maybe there's something else to be done, because there's always a solution, it's never too late. The country as such is beautiful. Things probably didn't go in the right direction in the past, but it will be possible...« Of course, I also saw this in the President of the Government, later of course, Dr. Mir Cerar, and I still very much trust him. But things can't be done overnight. This, colleagues on the left, you need to understand that things are not being done and that many, many laws have been adopted, many things have been done in the National Assembly in these two, three years, but unfortunately many things have not been done. And now that you're talking about the public sector, how it's spreading, I'm not going to say that you've been spreading it to your government, but I know that a lot has been spreading in the government of Dr. Janez Drnovska. [[…]] There was a lot going on at the time, a lot of jobs, I'm not going to list them now; I know exactly what things are. And then, of course, things get smaller, but they don't just go through the night, and the legislation is complicated. And I've been in school a long time, and I know that I had four Antusas in my maps, and if I looked at them, and if I followed them, and then I punished the kids, or the teachers, or then I called the parents, then I'd probably come to court. In short, I've always talked to each other like that, and I've always solved things. I have some concerns about legislation, and I also agree in part with those that still need to be worked out, that a lot has changed, that still needs to be simplified. I will give a practical example of these projects when young entrepreneurs or farmers wanted to apply for a European project. I myself helped my brother with a project to rebuild one of the pods. Actually, he didn't know much about it, how he'd get there. But when I actually got this project into my hands, I saved him about three quarters of the time with some kind of pain, I worked hard for a long time, and then one fifth of the time in one center, a colleague helped me, who had actually met with these projects through and saved them, and three things she didn't know how to answer me either. Then I went to a colleague who worked at a regional agency with this, and he actually answered one of them, but for two he said, "We'll write about it, and it will come back that way, and the correction will have to be written." But it worked. What was I gonna say? These things are very complicated, but in these projects, when they now apply for these European projects for this money, things have changed significantly. They did. But I believe that too little will have to be done. But I'm afraid we're going to change them too late when maybe this European money will be gone. I believe that there is still a lot to change around here and here I am the advocate, I am actually the one who somehow this administration is not lying to him and against this and just those small entrepreneurs will have to listen, and even if it is possible, where there is something to be done with. [[…]] But I'm against it when some people talk about how everything is saved in Austria. You know, in Austria it's not what it was anymore, and even those who were so excited to build it up, some are already coming back. I have the data, I have my relatives in Austria, I've been looking at the payrolls, and then when I look at the taxes, I've been thinking all the time, I've never gone into the details like this, or I've gone into the depths that these taxes are so big with us, between gross and net wages, but it's also in Austria that you won't think. And if you look at the OECD data now, Slovenia is of 36 countries in the tenth place. In front of us at higher taxes, Slovenia is at 42.7%, Germany – 49.4% tax, Hungary 48.2%, Italy 47.8%, Austria 47.1%, Finland 43.8%, the Czech Republic 43%, Sweden 42.8%, but Slovenia I said 42.7%. So sometimes all these things need to be looked at in detail and seen where we are. We're not so bad yet that the country actually collects everything with taxes. But I also agree with my colleagues when today it has been said that it is necessary to create cake and bread and then share it. And the ones on the other side, we don't come together many times to just share money. Of course, money is very easy to share, but we have to create it first. We have to be aware of that. That is why we have also adopted this fiscal rule that we have some things to spend. Because sometimes it was so, even in the former Yugoslavia, when the money ran out, the president of the state of Yugoslavia went abroad and he owed himself and he got the money and we lived on. But that's what we wanted to do in Slovenia when we left. We have resolved some things, but some things are still from the past governments, but I am not thinking now of the government of Mr Janez Janša, but of those past ones, as I have called them, which were too widely distributed by this state apparatus. It was widely distributed and, of course, these things cannot be done overnight. There has been a lot of talk about where things are actually changing, such as in the area of tourism. In the area of tourism, there are very good results and these results are better from year to year. I think we're on such a good path here that we can even boast. A very interesting matter is, for example, apprenticeship, which will now bring quite a few jobs. The apprenticeship law will touch those things because some professions are small or non-existent, they will be extinct, and some companies still need them, and some will be able to reach this profession through apprenticeship and then find their jobs quickly or faster. Here I mean not only for young people, those who will come from primary school, but also those who have graduated from a possible university have the opportunity to find a job, and they are probably also ready to go to school after a long time. If they find a job, that'll be good. And this Law on apprenticeship certainly helps, and it is an important thing that we have achieved. Of course, it is long - term, not to boast in this government, but it will probably take another decade. You know well that apprenticeships in Germany have been built for 50 years and over, and of course they can now boast. This certainly has a good impact on their economy. Earlier it was mentioned what everything is actually doing this year, where new jobs are. I'm not doing this again. Also in Lek Novartis in Prevalje, they are actually making a new investment. I'm going to add this because it wasn't said before. I'm not talking about Magna. Then this Japanese company that invests in the production of robots in Kočev. There are a lot of these things that change, and many times you don't talk about them. New jobs are being created, and I think there will be more in the coming year. You can't say that nothing happened during this period. However, I am glad that I have somehow not heard such big comments from you, from those who have proposed this debate today, that this government is to blame. In fact, it is known that all that we are now saving have been the cause and the fault of the previous governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u129	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Dr Vinko Gorenak and Mr Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u130	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Most of the time, I agree with the applicants, with these recommendations. We also have several suggestions in the New Slovenia Group, including solutions. I agree with those who say that we are ruled by bureaucrats, that we have a kidnapped country and a forced public interest. One proof is that TES does not have this government on its soul, and the other will be another course that will be on your soul. I'll touch it because here you say it was done, there's still a lot to be done. I don't think there's much in this government that you've done anything, you should do something. If I only mention the Strategy for the Development of Local Self-Government, you did the wrong thing. It was adopted by the government in violation of the Constitution and the European Charter on Local Self-Government. You wanted to upgrade the former system with administrative boundaries – wrong. They don't have administrative units anywhere, just us. You were just trying to make them stronger. That's wrong. The other thing is, I don't have a lot of time, but space law is what you wanted to do, and you did nothing about it. And I doubt you'll do anything by the end of your term. However, it is essential because of the real estate tax, because we do not have records because we have a large number of buildings constructed in non-compliance with the regulations and there is no record for them and the Constitutional Court will again cancel the tax which would otherwise have been imposed in 2019 or 20 but will not work. All former Yugoslav republics have embarked on the legalisation of the facilities, only Slovenia. Some have done much in this area. This should be an urgent matter. I know. You don't have people. You don't have real people. Just like they did, but it's wrong. Legalisation of facilities is not included in this legislation. And if there is no legalization of objects, we have done nothing and the damage is spatial acts, all the money for spatial acts, if everything is done halfway or quarterly. I read here because it has already been mentioned that the Ministry of Agriculture does not give its opinions in due time, consent, you wrote that at the Ministry in 2017 you adopted an activity plan by introducing mandatory field visits. This is the abolition of the administrative measure. For any change of destination, a field tour from Ljubljana. This is a solution in the right direction. Unfortunately, gentlemen, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u131	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word to prepare for Mr. Simon Zajc and Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u132	Thank you very much. When I listen to this debate, I feel like I don't know what time it is. Have you not read some, or have you not separated straw from eggs? For example, we're talking about removing administrative barriers. That's what we're talking about. And we're not talking about what the government did or where she hired someone. But I was taught so-called visual learning 40 years ago. She's learning visually. That's why I'm going to be visual now. Look, I have one decision before me from the Ministry of Environment and Space – I think the representatives are here or not, I don't know because I don't even know them – namely the Water Directorate. Look what they say in this decision. This is administrative, not an obstacle, but administrative, stupidity, which is why a minister or minister of a man who signed it should call him "Find a job". Yeah. What does it say? It says here that the man has four power plants: 1, 2, 3 and 4, and he is obliged to pay water for all of this, a tax, because he benefits water, the country. He was charged with paying EUR 306 for the first power plant, EUR 4.96 for the third 106 and some for the fourth 172. Together, the man owes 590 euros, 590.96 euros. Now look. Then they find that the husband has already paid 590.92 euros in 12 meals. So the country owes 0.04 euros. He owes four cents. And now they're threatening him to pay four cents in 60 days. The second threat, if he doesn't pay in 60 days, he has to pay late interest. Let's move on. Then they explain to him because they are very polite to complain. And look, they say: You can complain at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Vienna 48 in Ljubljana, in writing or orally on the record, but you have to pay 18.10 euros a fee. Signature: Brigita Rogelj, Undersecretary, and Tomaž Prohinar, Director. [[advertising from the hall]] Or will you call them and tell them to get a job? [[advertising from the hall]] Aren't you going to do that? I used to do it as a minister. And I'll tell you my case. In 2012, then Minister of Economics Zerjav issued a guarantee letter to someone from South Africa, a businessman. There were three men. This letter spoke of investing about 3 or 5 million in the Slovenian economy, I don't know, I don't remember exactly. In short, if you say in the translated sense of the word, they had $5 million in their suitcase, and we're speaking in a figurative sense. They would invest it in the Slovenian economy, somewhere in Slovenian Konjice. And of course they said, yes, a visa. Now, how's the visa? Yeah, right there in Cairo and there you'll get a visa in three or four working days. Yeah, great, but no. And then they asked if they could fly directly to Brnik and have the Slovenian police give them a visa here in Ljubljana, in Brnik. And, of course, the Director-General comes to me to explain that this is not possible. And then I said, now, bring me a regulation that doesn't make it possible, an article of the law, a sub-law or a European regulation, anything. "No, you know, it's not, but it's a practice, because we have to get used to visas being shared at embassy and not in Brno." And then another stronger lady comes to convince me, which I also saw here in Parliament a few days ago, how impossible that is. Well, I said, "Tell me, what do we do if you give this visa?" She said, "Yes, we're not breaking anything, but look, we've been doing everything from Africa to Cairo all these years." Well, I said, ma'am, this day and this at this hour on Brunik, the red carpet, put him in front of the plane, wait for the gentleman and give him a visa. But if you're not ready to do it, get a job. We can't do this. We can't do this. And we are talking about removing administrative barriers, and we are talking about this and not all the other stories that Mr Breznik, my forerunner, has been talking about. Today, textbooks write about what we are in the government, our first government started in 2006. Dr. Dujić teaches it in college. Is he going to learn anything about you? And if I don't know you, then how can he? [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u133	Quiet in the hall! Mr. Simon Zajc has the floor. Prepare Mr. Tomaž Lisec and the Mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. As far as I am concerned, I understand this meeting today, these recommendations today are solely as a pear move by the SDS party in terms of the previous moves they have already made. In short, it's very transparent what you're doing. You choose a subject that someone can perceive as problematic, if not, you help them to understand. You choose an emergency evil like, say, I don't know, taxes or anything like that, and then you want to tie this problem to this government, that the government is to blame, and you're showing yourself as some big solver of these problems. So let's say you started an asylum system the last time you tried to frame this government or blame it for costing us the asylum system, while you were on your own on the government twice, and you didn't shut down this asylum system, because of course you couldn't. It's nothing more than your pear move and trying to make people as angry, dissatisfied, scared and so forth. But today you've chosen bureaucracy. Of course, another subject that we can all agree is too much and that no one likes. I mean, which one of us likes to fill out any form, which one of us likes to do anything about bureaucracy? Of course, no one, since no one has the basic activity of meeting certain requirements on the forms, sending them away, and so on. We don't get the money out of this, it's not our core activity, and of course it's getting on our nerves. But bureaucracy and rules and laws are necessarily evil, because we have to admit that we are such that if we can, we try to bring the country around, we try not to pay taxes, we try to bring other people around and so on. If we were all right, this would not be all, but because we are what we are – not only in Slovenia, everywhere – we have bureaucracy. I can agree that in certain places or in large places it was too much, now it is a little smaller that it is sometimes lifeless. And I agree with the previous speaker that such non-life practices must be abolished, but it is necessarily evil. Many of the farmers and agriculture mentioned today have been mentioned; as they complain, I know this very well. But here you have to say that a lot of red tape in agriculture comes from getting you then in exchange for a subsidy, money; someone pays you for fulfilling those roles. Then you're paid to keep a record, because you have to monitor European money, so that it's really spent on what it's supposed to be. They are still mentioned on your side of the carrier, which is no longer available. You're saying that we've only exchanged this with some kind of ledger, but look, the ledgers have existed before. Here it is, for example, a delivery machine, and if I, as someone who produces salad, have to have a delivery with me when I take salad to a health care facility, but now the one who places wood on the market of the European Union must also have some traceability. That's all it's about, but that's all it took. In short, the carriers are gone, so it's possible that you can stop scaring them. In addition, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture and the Agricultural Chambers for those selling vegetables, we have arranged that no more invoices should be issued. So, one less burden. There is no mandatory bookkeeping for those who come over a certain threshold, as it once was. Then if we move somewhere else. There's a decline in the judicial backlog. Then the computer bases at the Ministry of Public Administration connect and, as a result, things are moving faster, common orders are being implemented. Of course, I can agree, but there is still much work to be done and work is being done. But it is true that you have been in the government longer than this government, and now you are reading things that you haven't fixed when we're talking about pausalysm and so on. That's because certain things really take more time than everyone in here would want and imagine, but that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u135	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich. Let us prepare Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer and then move on to the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that, President. What a lovely greeting in these evening hours! I must admit, when I have listened to this debate all afternoon, I am joining, regardless of my left or right, especially criticising that, according to the agenda item, at least by my colleagues, there was very little of this content. I would like to touch, in particular, those words of the editorial who presented and immediately cited the number of 20,000 normative acts. I'm sure it's a scary number, but I want to know how many of these 20,000 are useful. For this is statistics, and as has been said in the debate, one is statistics, and one is utility. And of this it is also crucial how many substantive rules are and how many procedural ones, because I believe that there is a significantly smaller number in application. The flood of normative acts is certainly due to the European Union's accession and the practical transposition of European legislation into the Slovenian legal order. I think there was very little to say in this part. What is right and what no one has touched is that in 2008 the so-called Nomotechnical Guidelines were endorsed by the applicant. Since the debaters have been talking about the bad acts we have, I wonder – since at least today there has been a lot of debate about the fact that the current government is absolutely not listening to such initiatives and proposals to remove administrative barriers – where are all those high-level officials who have simply not taken these Nomotechnical Guidelines into account? Because I'm not going to talk about what this contains, the fact is it's on the good 195 pages. I have one more thing to say, because time does not allow me to go into administrative so-called assignments and so on. However, the key point in this matter is and I miss, in particular, by the proposaler, given that he has made numerous proposals to amend both the laws, regulations and, as it is said, the removal of administrative burdens, the fact is that even last week, on Friday, on the Committee of the Economy, as well as in this material that we have before us, and still today, there is no one on the panel to mention – except the criticism of how everything is bad and easily cited individual cases – that if the proponents had a serious intention to intervene substantially or fundamentally in the area of removing administrative barriers, then I expected that they would also express themselves very clearly with the word of reorganisation, and even more correctly, structural reform at least narrower public administration. [[...]] Because the word bureaucracy has been used many times today, and the fact is that bureaucracy, however we turn, is represented by people and in our system practically public servants, but this part of bureaucracy without a normative work, is simply not the purpose of rules and laws. But it is both together that gives what we want or need to achieve that there is significantly better progress in the area of so-called good regulations or regulations that are friendly to the administration, to the user. I must admit that I have listened with interest mainly from the MPs when the debate was on environmental legislation. My key question is, where did you propose and all governments have been when you changed environmental legislation; the consequences of any changes by 2015 were certainly only still [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u137	Now, however, we have exhausted this list and are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposer gets the floor. Now it won't. [[…]] Then Mr. Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u138	Well, as proponents, we had one such pious hope that it would be possible in this debate to somehow agree on the direction that, as far as these obstacles and regulations are concerned and so on, we are not going over these magical but frightening numbers. It is not only 20,000 government regulations and laws, the problem is also that we have more than 20 sub-legislative acts per law, which of course means that we have laws where many articles say that the regulation is more detailed with the regulation or with the regulation, and then with some rule which is only theoretically in some public debate, it often gives rise to further obstacles beyond what the legislator has set here. So there's some kind of restriction that's necessary here. and now, if we are in numbers; if we had at the end of 1994, when Slovenia already had all its institutions and functioned as an independent state, less than 500 laws and less than 3,000 sub-legislative acts, then we should at least agree somewhere that in the coming years – overnight – we cannot – we should go slowly back to those rational figures, not further to 30,000. And here, above all, we need to change our thinking. Do not treat citizens as offenders, as if they should be prescribed, as if everything had to be controlled, as if they needed to be strengthened by inspection and so on; they should be taken as mature citizens. I remember the debates when we adopted the anti-tobacco law when smoking was banned in closed public spaces, what were the concerns if it didn't work out with us because people weren't mature enough for it. Is there a problem in this regard? Slovenians have matured to a higher level than is now dictated by this dictatorship of bureaucracy. In short, we should at least unify ourselves to create an environment where you will not need a special Magna painting bill, because you wrote yourself in the introduction that this law is necessary because it is not possible to come to this project on a regular basis and this is contrary to everything we have heard here before. And we hope that today's debate may still sober not only the representatives of the government, but also the individuals from the parliamentary groups of government parties, even in this mandate, if we are talking about these three years, not to propose all living crazy things that people are now looking for, I don't know, witnesses for being able to register mopeds 40 years old, and the mandate started with some proposals for writing kayaks and sports falls and I don't know what else we've had. So let us hope to get away from this and hope that some of our proposals will be adopted as they are. This proposal – the debate on this is now concluded – was not meant as an attack on the government, but here primarily the SMC has taken it as an attack and we have listened to reading reports where you have defended something that you do not need to defend. You haven't been here for 25 years. You don't exist that long. You don't have to defend everything. That there's some things we can work out. Let us hope that, after this debate today, there will be some more sobriety in these approaches and that the final result will be less regulation and less bureaucratic barriers.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u139	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Before applying, I would like to warn you that you can sign up for the debate by pressing the microphone switch. If one of the representatives of the motion for a recommendation and a representative or representative of the Government wishes to discuss it, please also apply by pressing the microphone button. In this case, they will be given the word as the last, first the representative or the representative of the Government, then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Each debater shall have 1 minute and 11 seconds. One minute and 11 seconds. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I think today's debate will still produce one result that will help us all together to better the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u141	Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u142	Thank you. Today we have listened to a variety of things and I agree with Mr Janša that this may also be one of the thoughts of how to change not only our behaviour here in Parliament but also probably the attitude of the Government towards its subordinates and all these other subsystems, which are that these burdens, however already restricting the life and work of all citizens and citizens in Slovenia, are somehow aimed at being efficient, operational and in fact also living. How do you do that? If, in 25 years, it has not been possible to optimize and rationalise all of this, it will probably be difficult at this time, but I think it is going in the right direction, in some reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u143	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u144	Yes, thank you for your word, Mr. President. I've asked for a procedure before, and you've overheard me. It happens. Why? One of the SMC Members said, quote: "The laws are necessarily evil, and we are people who cheat the country." See, most citizens and citizens of Slovenia, Article 3 of the Constitution, are not like this. I wanted to ask him to apologize to us. But since I still have some time, I'm going to say what's been said a little bit after the curves today. Many of the countries with which the applicant wants to compare us have higher tax rates than we do, and from them, domestically speaking, business does not flee. At the level of the tax rate, of course, the maturity of the policy is very important and, in fact, Slovenia has burned quite badly in a quarter of a century. And that's the task ahead of us. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u145	Dr. Ange Logar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u146	Thank you, Chairman. The fact that the ruling coalition has pressed the button that the debates are only one minute and 11 seconds long is the best evidence of an administrative restriction. Because of the fact that other Members should not have to discuss, you have used your numerical power, although you are constantly explaining that this is an irrelevant point for you. I don't have time to specifically parliamentary, but allow me, given that some of you have boasted about your project “Stop bureaucracy!” I went to the website and I looked into the solved cases. Under the heading Cases resolved, the last case solved is from the first half of 2015. Stop bureaucracy! The answer to why disability certificates should be collected is that it is unnecessary, since certain diseases do not pass away, someone who is disabled will not grow a leg again, will not overlook or hear again. The Government replied, note: “We consider that the assessment of whether the certificate is evidence must be attached every year or can be taken into account in a longer period depending on the circumstances of each particular case.” And this is the solution offered by the government of Mira Cerar. Thank you. No comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u147	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u148	Entrepreneurs ask me what we have specifically proposed and you have refused. I am therefore reading as long as I am allowed time: the abolition of tax receipts; the abolition of valuations; the maintenance and substantial expansion of the possibility of flat-rate taxation; the possibility of choosing a guest to decide on flat-rate taxation, which would depend on the location and expected level of operation — on an Austrian basis; the option of introducing, instead of manual input, an optical reader to register guests in hotels and other accommodation establishments; the possibility of selecting carriers to deal with the freight document and other transport documents electronically; the introduction of a mandatory deadline for all responses by public or official authorities to applications, applications and requests by citizens and entrepreneurs; the simplification of procedures; the elimination of unnecessary consents and administrative barriers to the acquisition of construction and other permits; the debarcation of calls for the introduction of public funds, in particular for the area of agricultural organisations; Together, more than 50 concrete proposals. You've turned everything down. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u149	Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u150	Thank you for that minute. Like I said before, you didn't even do the main thing. You're something, not in the right direction, and the result will be a clown. But you're not responsible for all the situation we're in. Many governments, but most of them are ministers who are already 25 and perhaps 30 years old, some years before retirement and, of course, it is difficult to change their thinking. Above all, as long as the taxpayers rule, there is no promise of much better. But once the rule is taken over by those who pay taxes that generate added value, this situation will also have to change. Otherwise, we're going to be a clairvoyant, what we end up with and no more money for any investment, even now it's very small, even for the social sector and the pension will run out of money.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u151	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have put forward a recommendation on the administrative burdens of citizens, farmers and entrepreneurship and the continuous deterioration of the business environment in Slovenia in the Slovenian Democratic Party because the situation in this area is real and clearly very problematic. People, Slovenian citizens and citizens are aware of this, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are aware of this – especially because if you read only what Less bureaucracy says here, more time for people. And I think that this should be the basic foundation and the basic path to what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia deserve. That is why a change of policy is needed, and it is therefore necessary to change those who will go along the path that citizens and citizens want. And I think there is a need for policy change here, as well as for political parties and programmes, and for those who see this thing completely different. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have made it very clear that we do not agree with this way of leading this country, as led by this government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u153	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, this debate today should be adopted by the Government and the coalition with both hands. She was well-intentioned. In fact, we in New Slovenia have been shouting since the beginning of this mandate: lower taxes, simple procedures, open economy! We all said today that we have a problem with much and too much bureaucracy, that it is our developmental bar. Unless it's different, if we don't know how to reengineer business or administrative procedures, processes, then we learn from bad cases. Why did that raggon brewery have to go to Austria and suddenly become the third best brewery in the world? Which of the state officials, the bureaucrats, flew away because of what's happening to us, that instead of the country withdrawing from the economy, the economy withdraws from the country? And you served us today, the opposition, economic growth. Of course, thank God, you're lucky. What measure has brought how many percentage points of economic growth? And so on. You don't say that. And here's the problem. Too bad you didn't take this debate today as one of your great opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u155	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u156	Yes, thank you very much. I hope that students who have read, what modernisation of public administration means and what bureaucratic obstacles mean will listen to how bureaucratic obstacles in practice work. When this mandate came about when Mira Cerar took over the government, I said we had a dictatorship of bureaucracy, and you just confirmed that today. In fact, when you passed the Magna Act, you denied yourself in all your statements. Next thing that's gonna happen. You've also cheated on Jaskawa many times. Jaskawa came to Slovenia under a completely different government. Jaskawa stayed here in Slovenia, will expand its production due to our good people, craftsmen and entrepreneurs. A lie, another one on everything you've suggested today. And the business environment, respected colleagues and colleagues, is getting worse under your government because competition is working, so our tighter competition around the country is working on it, and you're sleeping and living in some parallel universe. And that's the problem that we wanted to point out today. I believe that people, entrepreneurs, farmers and others who are in the real part of the economy have seen this today and see where you are taking this Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u157	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u158	Thank you, President. If we want to get rid of state bureaucracy, we need to get rid of the parties to state bureaucracy or the state sector. If we want good laws, we need good coalition MPs, and we don't have that. If we want good sub-laws, regulations and regulations, we need good officials led by good ministers. We don't have that. And to show all this in practice, a few cases. The case of the 2016 cold was not solved by the bureaucratic nonsense of this government until May 2017. If you want an example of good practice, read some of the material from the 2004-2008 mandate when the removal of bureaucratic nonsense was the red thread of that effective government. And all those who say how responsible the European Union is for everything. Ladies and gentlemen, we have entered the European Union 1. 5. 2004 After thirteen years, you still have the European Union to blame. Be sober. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u159	Now the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food mags has the floor. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u160	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Lisc that in the Act on the Elimination of the Aberrations adopted by this National Assembly and considered by the competent committee, the Committee on Agriculture, it has been stated that the support will be paid from the 2017 budget reserve, because otherwise it is not possible to carry out these procedures under the State aid rules. In addition, it is required to take into account data on the statistical crops and prices published by the Statistical Office on 15 April. So the payments couldn't have been made sooner, but they will now, this month. Secondly, I wanted to say that proposals must be feasible and meaningful. The abolition of these bookkeeping documents, which in fact apply only to legal persons, may only have a decision between natural persons that the infringement is lawful and would endanger the industry, since each article in the wood chain must have proof that the wood is traceable to its origin that it has been legally cut. The abolition of these documents would mean that timber exporters could be at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-05-08-SDZ7-Izredna-43.ana.u161	This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I inform you that the 29th meeting of the National Assembly will continue at 23 p.m. and 10 minutes. I also conclude the 43rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
