ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I am opening the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Eva Irgl, Mrs Marinka Levičar, Mrs Ljudmila Novak, Mrs Marija Bačič, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko, Mrs Janja Slug from 2.30 p.m. to 17 p.m., Dr Simona Kustec Lipicer from 15 p.m. to 19 p.m., Mrs Maruša Škopac, Mrs Andreja Potočnik, Mrs Ksenija Korenjak Kramar, Mrs Vesna Vervega, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 5:30 p.m., mag. Alenka Bratušek, Violeta Tomić by 16:00 and from 19:00 on, Mr Bojan Podkrodšek, Mr Roberto Battelli, Mr Uroš Prikl, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Dr. Milan Brglez from 16.30 to 6.30 p.m., Mr. Matjaž Hanžek, Mr. Jernej Vrtovec, mag. Matthew Tonin, Dr. László Göncz from 17:00 onwards, Mr. Branko Zorman from 15:00 to 18:00, mag. Branislav Rajić, Mr Ivan Hršak from 18:00 on, Mr Primož Hainz from 18.30 onward, Mr Jan Škoberne from 17:00 on, Mr. Franc Laj, Dr. Franc Trček, Miha Kordiš and Luka Moon from 17:00 on. I really welcome all those present in this hall. I also invited government representatives to the meeting. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received your draft agenda on Friday, 6 October 2017 by reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We are moving on to a decision, Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, all of whom voted in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommended in relation to the misuse of detection and prosecution authorities and the judicial area. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by 25 Members and 25 Members with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Group of 19 Members and Members, with the first signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. For further explanation, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Twenty pages of text, but I have 10 minutes. Well, then I'll have to supplement myself from the bench. What we propose with today's session, or what is the purpose of today's meeting, at least from the point of view of the proposers. Look, we've witnessed a lot of abuse in recent years, of course I've been abusing the relationship between the police and the prosecution or just separate segments, and the courts are often correcting their mistakes. Now, in the first part of our demands, of course, we have presented the so-called closed cases, which are concluded and, therefore, we can discuss them without any reservation, because we all know them. Names are often known, but often they are not known to the public. This is in the first part, and in the second part we also warn for example when the police, the prosecution or the judiciary do not decide, does not work or does not work badly, but it is also a case of abuse in our case. I will continue to try to present a few examples, briefly, and the rest of them, of course, from the bench. But here I have a wish and a request for two of my next interlocutors, for Mr Radić and for Mrs Popotatov, to respond in her performances of course, this is a request, this is allowed, responded to this performance and the cases I will tell. Look! Yesterday we witnessed a judgment in the Inpol case, two people who damaged this society for a million and a half, in the morning I misspoke a billion and a half, so those who damaged this society for a million and a half, were found guilty yesterday and, of course, received two years probationary. So, a million and a half, two years on probation. Shall we add to this a legal formal case of technical inspections somewhere in Gorenjska, and have we had a situation there? There were about 100 police officers, or something, who were involved in terrible abuses in Gorenjsk, for technical examinations, that is, someone taking bribes. Ladies and gentlemen, the court proved him guilty and was convicted. Do you know how many? For three years, it's unconditional. My next two speakers, so please, if you are trying to help me explain this, because I do not understand it, I believe that also Slovenian people So, Slovenians and Slovenian citizens also do not, how is it possible that for a million and a half years of damage you get conditional and how is it possible that for 250 euros you get three years unconditional. [[…]] I'm asking for help. I'm not capable enough to understand that. Let's move on. Elections 2011 and elections 2014. This is the public information I'm talking about, and this is what the newspapers have been writing about, so there's no particular problem with that. Eco Park, I think that Murska Sobota or Lendava, somewhere there, will charge Mr Daniel Türk a thousand 500 euros for the election campaign, the Court of Auditors will report the case where it finds that it was, of course, a violation of the law. And look at him, the company gets a reminder. So, for a thousand 500 euros, but when a society in Maribor ordered the current Mayor of Maribor 100 euros, I stress 100 euros, in an equally illegal way, the same laws were broken, and this society received 5,000 euros in fines. I'm asking for your help, my next interlocutor, and I'm not capable enough to understand that. How is that possible? So you get 100 euros, 5,000 euros in fines, and for a thousand 500 you get a reminder. For I explain to myself that it is a matter of a politically biased trial, that the one on the right side is judged in this way and the other. Let's move on. How is it possible for 124 euros of unpaid municipal affairs to be taken away and sold to Mr Vaskrisic? House! Compare this matter with Mr Jankovic and tell him why they write down 16 million. They shall enter into the procedure of 16 million. So we write down 16 million and sell the man's house for 124 euros. To make the measure even greater, about 10 days ago, a bill was issued in New Town for the sale of a two - room apartment in a block. Indeed, one lady who lives there, in that block, was unable to pay 350 euros in some municipal matters. And the court will file a warrant for the sale of the apartment. Selling her apartment. I'm through the media to the court because I couldn't help but pay for this case myself just to keep this lady in her apartment. I also asked the question of the Member of Parliament, and then, of course, they cancelled the order. But the President of the Court said we don't have anything, we don't know anything about the Vaskrsic case, we don't know anything. As if the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights were not binding on them. Let's keep looking. This morning we were talking about the ZOPNI, the Law on the Seizure of Property of Illegal Origin. Ladies and gentlemen, the former mayor of Maribor, Kangler, belongs or is in this process, on a proposal from the prosecution, for a 35-year-old tractor, has to prove where he got it. Now, why don't you tell me why the courts don't start these proceedings against those who took three and a half billion. Why don't the courts start these proceedings against those who received 300 million commissions in Iran? But they're investigating and dealing with a 35-year-old tractor. And here I am asking everyone who comes after me to try to help me understand this, because I don't understand it. Let's keep looking. There were some 10 policemen following this National Assembly in 2010 and almost half of them were transported up and down to Mr. Jelinčič, and at the same time they closed up, thus taking the liberty of being a professional, Mursophosian mayor, Mr. former Mayor Štichec. He wasn't in the process, and his freedom was taken. He shouldn't have called his mother. He shouldn't have called his wife. He and his mother were agreed to go to the cemetery. He was deprived of his freedom. A cop went to the bathroom with him and stood outside the door. It's a seizure of liberty, we have nothing here. And he wasn't on trial, and he was never on trial. The investigation was led by Mr Jevšek, who, of course, took matters to heaven and later became the mayor of the city. Now tell me this is a coincidence. It's not a coincidence, it's not a coincidence. It's abuse. Last but not least, there are other cases, such as the case of Mr Magajna. You know, he was sitting there somewhere as an MP, and they told him if you don't vote for the RTV Act, we're gonna get back at you. And they did. “Fasal” is a house investigation in the year '16 or when it was already forgiven of any guilt. Ladies and gentlemen [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] It's abuse. [[…]] But if you're a minister's father-in-law, you beat up your first neighbor and say to this neighbor, "You know what, you're 85 years old, you'll be in a coffin before I'm judged." This has already happened to us. And this gentleman's prediction is coming true. Today, Mr. 87 years old is still nothing from the court. So the court will wait for him to finish. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] In the coffin or what? [[…]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the cases we want to talk about and I will continue with the bench because I have run out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u3	In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the applicant, Mrs Ivi Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u4	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members! The situation in the area of detection and prosecution of crime and confidence in the judiciary in Slovenia is at an unsuspectingly low level. Many cases of violations of constitutionally protected human rights and fundamental freedoms, overstepping powers for the purpose of abuse, indicate that there is a great void in this area, which we can call corruption, or if you want deliberate harm, delaying procedures with the sole aim - to end proceedings without a conviction – or to file criminal charges, to lynch and discredit people, and then to forgive after years. All of this happened in the cases described in the proposal for recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. These are judicial proceedings in which it is more than obvious that they have not been guided in accordance with the principle of justice and accountability. This is a condition for the functioning of the rule of law and its democratic processes. On the one hand, we have cases of individuals being accused very quickly – Robert Fojkar, Zoran Vaskrsić, Franc Kangler, Andrej Magajna, Patria. The common denominator for all is a lack of evidence, a number of procedural infringements and illegal decisions, and at the end of the legal release of any guilt or limitation and the resulting compensation of the European Court of Human Rights. We need to think of the information that in 22 years of the total 341 judgments, this court granted to Slovenian complainants in 319 cases, as it found human rights and fundamental freedoms. These judgments are followed by high compensations paid by all taxpayers. On the other hand, we have a case where, despite the numerous legal evidence obtained, the trial does not take place and the indictments are not tabled, or procedures at the police and the prosecution are going very slowly. For example, we have some cases of Jankovic, Rok Furlan, Zalar, Škrlec, Fisher. As such violations are repeated because many institutions and individuals warn us of the poor situation in Slovenian justice, we have explicitly pointed out in the proposal the individual cases where we can see in the distance that we have a legal state in Slovenia for influential and wealthy citizens and the rule of law for small ordinary people. In New Slovenia, we stress the responsibility of the judge or the prosecutor for the vote he gave as a member of a body. We stress the necessity of control within the judicial and prosecutorial systems. Failure to act and lack of self-reflection casts a bad light on the whole of justice. Therefore, we would only recommend that the Government, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Prosecutor's Office should, within the framework of their powers, prepare a report analysing cases of human rights violations and fundamental freedoms. At the same time, solutions should also be proposed to ensure that individuals are treated fairly, impartially, within a reasonable period of time, and logically also to verify the existence of the personal responsibility of the personnel and officials of the detection and prosecution and prosecution authority. We do not know this today in Slovenia. We therefore propose that you adopt the recommendations and thus ensure the establishment of a normal country where all citizens are subject to the same rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u5	At its 32nd urgent meeting, on 9 October 2017, the Committee on Justice considered the Committee of Justice as the working body of the mother. Since the Committee did not adopt the recommendations at the end of the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a recommendation was completed at the working body meeting. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u6	Respectable. At its 32nd emergency meeting, on 9 October 2017, the Committee of Justice considered as the working body the proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the abuse of detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, as a candidate and published on the website of the National Assembly on 5 October 2017. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Government. On behalf of the applicant, an additional explanation was submitted by the representative of the magi. Branko Grims, who stressed that one of the foundations of democracy is certainly the confidence of people in the justice system and its institutions, because otherwise democracy does not work and only farce. The proposaler points out that confidence in the public in the independence of the courts and judges in Slovenia is very low. The constitutional right to judicial protection and other related rights are not exercised. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Tina Brecelj, presented a written opinion from the Government, which assesses that the applicant, by selecting particular statistics, data, value assessments and descriptions of specific cases, is trying to create the thesis that there is a systemic problem in Slovenia with regard to the failure to ensure the fair and impartial treatment of individuals in the forecasting process, as well as an independent and fair trial, trial within a reasonable time frame, and thus equality before the law for all. This situation, as stated by the applicant, is neither a domestic analysis nor an assessment by foreign institutions. President of the Supreme Court, Mag. Mr Floriančič said that the Criminal Procedure Act provided for the possibility of infringements in criminal proceedings, so regular and exceptional remedies were available to participants. He stressed that judges in the exercise of their judicial function were independent, bound by the Constitution and the law, and should be judged by their conscience, without external influences or pressures. The representative of the State Attorney's Office, Aleš Butala, stressed that prosecution is in the public interest, as the crime is a delict against society as a whole. Public prosecutors are aware of this and are acting impartially, professionally, legally, and carefully. In the debate, opposition Members cautioned that in Slovenia the people have authority, but they do not trust the judiciary. By examining violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms by detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary in the period 1994 to 2016, they would achieve greater confidence in the justice system and greater independence of the judiciary, as well as prevent unequal treatment of citizens. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, and then voted together in accordance with Articles 126 and 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on all the points of the proposal and did not adopt them, thus ending its consideration of the recommendations on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u7	To present my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Tina Brecelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members. For the introduction of a few facts from the opinion of the Government. The number of judges is steadily decreasing. According to today's data, there are 891, and let me remind you that not long ago we were talking about a number over a thousand. This morning you were able to accompany the meeting of the Justice Committee, where the annual report of the Supreme Court for the previous year was presented. It was found that when the number of judges decreased further, the majority of the courts controlled the case or controlled it last year, the number of pending cases decreased, the expected time of the case was reduced, and the average time of the resolution was reduced. In last year, higher courts received 8.4% fewer cases, the number of cases received has virtually decreased in all legal areas and the number of pending cases has decreased. It is an instance of the courts which deal with legal remedies against first-degree decisions, and that is why I am talking about this because the lower membership can give us hope that more and more users of judicial services have been entrusted with the first-degree decision. All of these are data that we are monitoring and, as much as the situation in the field of justice would be so critical and full of abuse, I believe that data would also show this. Disciplinary proceedings against judges, even in this house, have often been worded, the number of cases dealt with has been in the past, i.e. between 2014 and 2016 - 13, of which in the last year 3 cases. So we can see that the system also has built-in self-regulatory mechanisms that operate or are used to a certain extent. Why am I saying all this? So that we can all see together that the system works and shows positive trends, which will certainly need to be upgraded. Now to the draft for the session. The applicant seeks to create a thesis that there is a systemic problem in Slovenia regarding the failure to provide effective, fair, impartial and independent treatment of individuals by selecting particular statistics and the value of these assessments and describing specific, mostly closed judicial or prosecutorial cases. In the forecasting process and beyond, the thesis is that there is no independent and fair trial within a reasonable time frame and thus equality before the law for all. On the basis of individual cases, I believe that we can all agree, the Government cannot take the view that the situation in the field of organ labour, detection and prosecution or the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, as well as the judiciary, is all on average alarming and scandalous. Such conditions do not show domestic statistics or the ranking of our justice by foreign institutions. The proposal for recommendations that the Government should or should prepare an analysis and solutions to ensure that individuals are treated fairly, impartially and independently is therefore unnecessary in our opinion, as the Government and the Ministry of Justice have already proposed and adopted in this mandate a number of systemic measures and legislative changes that strengthen the accountability of the judiciary and have already been confirmed in the National Assembly. If I mention just a few. The conduct of disciplinary proceedings against judges is taken over by the Council of Justice, as a body that is not part of the judiciary, but so far there have been no interventions in this area. Well, he was now. Next. A Supervisory Service for the Management of Courts was established at the Ministry of Justice, which is administered by a Judge-in-Charge. A reform of the State's defence has been carried out, and a more objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for judicial and prosecutorial office has been established. Compulsory public publication of the list of deletions from the lawyer directory, the introduction of the possibility of photographing and recording judges before the opening of the public main hearing and the oral announcement of the decision on cases where the public is not excluded. A free examination of the data provided by the Court of Justice and the public publication of the judgments of the Courts of First Instance was established. Separate opinions have been introduced in the Supreme Court, in addition to the introduction of a more transparent system of call for the appointment of evaluators and experts, i.e. the proposal for the establishment of such a system and the abolition of the political appointment of state defenders. I could still count it. We are also planning measures in the field of implementation, evaluation and interpretation, in which, at least not so comprehensively, it has so far not been legally affected, even though we know how often a fair decision depends on the conscientious part of the judicial expert, the evaluator or, more recently, the interpreter. I am talking about the right decisions, the quality, the judicial decisions in which people trust because they are professionally justified. These are projects to which it was partly understandable, since the past governments have been forced to deal primarily with measures to curb judicial backlogs, so all these measures have been given little attention, and now that the situation is different and it has been found that judicial backlogs are no longer a systemic problem, there will be enough time and energy for those, if I can call them joint nouns, quality enhancement projects. We are facing, and that is a fact, the issue of the generation gap between judges. We are preparing a starting point for a re-entry into the judicial and prosecutorial function - I am talking about a legal state exam - which we are putting on new foundations and could also list. Under the line, because the situation in the judiciary is positive, it gives us a basis for us to continue with the oriented work ahead. Well, if confidence in or difficulty in following up on home grades may be in progress, I would like to mention some other international ones. In the field of the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, for example, if, following the report of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights at the end of 2015, there were 309 unexecuted judgments representing more than 95% of all judgments, the situation was completely different at the end of last year, with only 49 unexecuted judgments, which is less than 15%. In this regard, I also invite you to visit the website of the Ministry of Justice where we are publishing activities on human rights and the enforcement of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in a new way. We have also been particularly commended for our efforts in this area by the world of Europe. Dear Members, even respectable all those who accompany us through screens, it is possible to agree that every mandate of the Government has been marked by efforts to upgrade the legal system in order to act even more honestly, effectively and confidently. If in recent years the problem of Slovenian justice has been an irresistible judicial backlog and all possible levers have to be adopted for their incarceration, justice is therefore faster today. Trials are proceeding more continuously, and the number of judges is falling. We are also approaching the 2020 target set in this area. The specific cases highlighted in the reference material are certainly the right of the proposer to comment on them. It is right to read and listen to comments, but on these grounds I would not like to conclude that, on the basis of these cases, it is possible to say that in the judiciary there is an abuse of detection and prosecution authorities and a violation of the limits of powers with a view to abuses in inadmissible acts, constitutionally protected human rights and fundamental freedoms. Respectable proponents, cases before Slovenian courts and prosecutions are, of course, much more than those mentioned in your materials. You do not comment on these, but they are also, if we are based on the basic premise that we are all the same before the law, equally important. For the person involved, it may be of vital importance, and it is precisely because of all people that we need to stress that we have a functioning system in the country. We have judges and prosecutors suing and judging on the basis of the Constitution and laws. We have regular and extraordinary legal remedies available to users to prove their right. And we have functioning mechanisms that sanction irregularities or illegalities. In the system of shared power, the government will continue to seek to build up the system levers that will approach the intended objective. We intend to continue with the measures considered. That is why our proposal was to reject today's recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u9	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Left Group, followed by Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u10	Thank you, President. Thank you very much. Is the situation of detection and prosecution of crime in Slovenia exemplary? It's not. Is the situation with regard to the functioning of the judiciary in Slovenia an example? It's not. Is the situation in both areas as catastrophic as they try to tell us every time again the multitudes of lustration recommendations made by SDS? It's not. As a result, I can only confirm one thing, and that is that in Levica we certainly agree that more needs to be done and things improved. However, whether lustration is an appropriate way, that is to say, if we read correctly, to resolve and forgive anything else, especially if we take into account the fact that a large part of the cases that are supposed to serve as evidence that the judiciary and the other branches do not act on the proceedings against the representatives or co-thinkers of the applicants are not. In Levica, we have repeatedly highlighted which are our starting points. We have repeatedly said that there is no need to look for the right path in any far too radical changes, that the right path is actually to solve those problems that are obvious, those problems that we know our justice has. First, it is necessary to correct the current system of appointment of judges. Package appointment is certainly not an appropriate way of selecting better staff. I even hope to say that Lukenda, the Janša government's project, is certainly a covert one, that we have people in the system today who, without such a project, would probably not even be elected to a judicial function. Another thing that certainly has a significant impact on the quality of all these processes is saving. Neither the judicial branches of power nor the law enforcement authorities have spared the financial times. If you add to this the lack of resources for regular training and education is a measure of the situation we actually have full. And this is where the guilt is shared. In fact, all past governments are responsible. The police, the courts, the prosecutions and everyone else who operates in this system received reckless austerity. Furthermore, it is particularly critical for us and, unfortunately, it also feels more and more real that in Slovenia we have two legal states, one for the rich and the other for the poor. And this feeling was encouraged by the first Janša government, Pahoreva continued and did the same for Cerarje. In all the judicial laws we have pointed out in Levi, we have also put forward concrete proposals and solutions, but there has never been a crucial and most pressing issue of support from both the coalition and the right opposition. What are the effects of this saving, which has driven the rift on the rule of law for the rich and for the poor? Look at this absurdity, where the materially weakest for a good hundred or something are Euros will lose their roof over their heads. While the rich hide their assets in tax havens, exploit workers, avoid paying taxes and are constantly in such or other affairs, the working people and the unemployed face ever more severe poverty. These are the problems that we should talk about, not the mines, as a representative of the SDS candidates is pleased to say, which are undoubtedly the recommendations. In particular, this list proves that neither of the parties actually wants a well-functioning rule of law. The SDS jumps into the air if they lock up theirs and jump into the air even if they don't lock someone else who's obviously out of their league. The second part of the political “establishment” is the same. Unless we come up with an affair where a coalition arises between the right opposition or non-social Democrats, for example, such as the case of TES 6. That's when they all go up in the air. That justice is not in excellent condition for the benefit of all those involved in such or other judicial proceedings. First of all, the old politicians, the successful economists and the mayor's sheriffs. And this is also the reason for today's introduction, and this is how we must take it into the intervention of the Minister of Justice. It's more than obvious that the election is at the door. In an attempt to rehabilitate John Janša, it is obviously necessary to do our best. Of course, this is only possible if the judiciary is constantly being undermined, it all the time points out that it is manipulated, biased, politically motivated, udbov and what is still involved. The same could be said for the Commission to prevent corruption. Did anyone else think that everyone involved in the affairs actually came to the point that the Commission was not working? Anyone who can't explain where the money is being used to justify KPK making mistakes in the proceedings and, of course, the Administrative Court annulled the final finding. This, of course, draws us away from the fact that we still do not know where the money is from, such as Janez Janša or Zoran Jankovic. But apparently for some in this country, money actually grows on trees. At the same time, we can only think that the main objective of such action is to rehabilitate convicts and all others who face daily affairs, judicial proceedings, house investigations, and it is clear that none of them wants to have confidence in justice, in the rule of law in our country at an extremely high level. Then they'd just be guilty. Today, however, they have the opportunity to refer to the catastrophic situation of the judiciary and the law enforcement authorities. That they are not guilty of committing a crime, but because it is a political construct, because the judiciary is, of course, biased because this same court violates human rights. What we will listen to today is thus not a debate on how to improve justice or how to ensure that decisions in justice are swift and, above all, fair. This is about personal interests disguised as a covert concern about the state of our justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u11	The text is by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u12	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a debate on the situation in institutions that are still so important for the functioning of the rule of law. And trust in institutions is the foundation of the rule of law. Of course, we have different views from that classic German “Rechtsstaat” to modern theories, through the “Rule of Law” and constitutionalism in which it would stop. More and more cases are coming to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has become increasingly important in the country and more defensive, the last human rights defender. It is interesting, for example, that decisions of the Constitutional Court are increasingly being commented on, including by the judiciary itself. The most recent decisions of the Constitutional Court state that the judgments of the higher and supreme courts were adopted on the basis of an arbitral ruling and how important this is for the functioning of the rule of law. It is therefore attempting to minimise the work of the Constitutional Court, by the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court. This is how we come to the so-called fluid rule of law, which has developed in Slovenia, which is characterised by the fact that there is a specific decision of all institutions, a creative interpretation of the law, and a paid opinion and normalisation of deviant behaviour. So what's deviant isn't harmful at all, and it's kind of normal. How can this be overcome, in the first place, by the institution itself? We have legislation, there is no need to change it. Today we had a debate on the state of the judiciary where we highlighted some of the problems, but found that the reputation of the judiciary by the public is low and that the judges and, above all, the leaders of the courts must take care of the reputation of the judiciary themselves. Of course, one based on these statistics where it is interesting, of course, some indicators are positive, others are negative, depending on how we look, how we look, how things fall, how things go down in court, what is interesting is that there are more and more cases that are being dropped, interestingly, we still have not resolved the decision at the second stage, which is still important, there is no need to change the legislation, which is already enabling this, but in individual cases this is not being applied. And of course, it's a very important conflict of interest, the appearance of impartiality, which gives a bad light to the judiciary. If we look briefly at the prosecution, the prosecutor is the one who leads and directs the forecasting process, financial crime, other types, criminality that affects the lives of people, prosecutors who are supposed to lead the proceedings, direct the police, lack sufficient knowledge and a large number of cases that fall on the court point to the need to change the concept of monitoring the prosecutor's career and monitoring his success. Either things fall because of its failure or worse, it is only a deliberate pressure on the one in the process, and then the prosecutor does not hold on to the deadline, since it is precisely a cover-up of investigative measures, which are the greatest intervention in human rights, that is to say, the fact that they end up without the fact that man is constantly under some pressure, but what is happening. And this is where the abuse of institutions occurs. Of course, it is the first police in the chain to obtain covert investigative measures that are trying to spread, and it has neglected classical police work and there is key evidence here that I am not talking about house abuse. But where is he now despite the problem? The key to the problem is to run an institution, whether the institution has a career, has a responsibility and operates in the interest of the institution, either in its interest or in the interest of someone else who may have put it in this place. The Head of the institution shall be responsible for the conflict of interest, for the competitive clause, for the misuse of information, for the institution's operation and achievement of its objectives, and for the reputation of the institution. And proper management and staffing is a problem in Slovenia. The examples we see every day of human rights abuses point to the worst problem in Slovenia, especially in transit countries. It is in certain cases that the abuse of institutions occurs and we can talk about the kidnapped institution, the kidnapped country, the so-called deep state, the 5th branch of power and the 4th branch of power, the media, and it does not play its part here. To illustrate the end of the case. The system works, the last money laundering through the New Ljubljana Bank, the money laundering prevention system works and, in exceptional cases, all institutions hide. And that's the problem with the kidnapped institutions and the hijacked states. And we have to fight this, it's called uncovering these cases and finding responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u13	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, for which Mr Dušan Radič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u14	Respectable. In Slovenia, public confidence in the independence of courts and judges is at a low level. The proposer of today's meeting draws attention to this very loud and intensely. In doing so, of course, we must ask ourselves why the image of the judiciary in public is so bad. Unfortunately, we have little confidence in the judicial authorities and the whole of justice, and some are very clever in putting themselves, without a sound basis, without professional evidence and otherwise looking into the whole process of judicial proceedings. The boutique selection of individual cases aims to promote distrust of detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary. Of course, it is also the task of the judiciary to ensure that the good results and good experience of users and the professional public reach the general public. However, the role of politicians and in particular the legislator is to ensure that we safeguard the independence and impartiality of the judiciary as a separate branch of government, which is based on the constitutional principle of the division of power. The references to such meetings are trying to have exactly the opposite effect, as the recommendations already made today are contrary to the rule of law. Is this a way to safeguard the independence and impartiality of the judiciary as an autonomous branch of government? Important systemic measures have been taken in this mandate to strengthen accountability and transparency in the functioning of the judiciary. In particular, great progress has been made with regard to the judicial backlogs that have been our key systemic problem over the past 20 years. This is also recognized by the international institutions. In order to improve the justice system, the planned legislative changes will continue to affect the judicial network and the more effective functioning of the judiciary. A number of legislative proposals in this area are in preparation and some are already in the legislative process. The results of the efforts made so far by the judiciary are indisputable and notable and therefore the complainant's findings of the judiciary are largely unjustified and unfounded. However, when it comes to determining the responsibilities of an individual judge, the issue of expertise or competence in a prescribed procedure may be resolved. As a result of possible errors on the part of individual judges, it is unacceptable to charge the entire court or to generalise these cases. As a result, Members of Parliament and Members of the Modern Centre Party on the home working body recommended this proposal to the Government. And for the end, a literary supplement. We had a very “fine” Slovenian teacher, who also told us: “Because the goat did not want to get oily, but wanted to get oily because he was looking over the fence and couldn’t get over the fence, so he should be beaten with nine punches in his shadow.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u15	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! As leftists or a member of the largest government understand the constitutional principle of equality before the law and its practical implementation in the context of the Slovenian law enforcement authorities, the institutions of the justice system, I must say it was very instructive to hear and I hope that the general public has listened attentively to it as well. That's why I'm starting with a simple fact. Ladies and gentlemen, the judicial “shamastika” of the highest kind, such as the rejection of evidence against Zoran Jankovic concerning the suspicion of sexual abuse, would immediately take the Justice Minister with his entire team in any normal democratic legal state, or he would resign himself or replace him as Prime Minister of the Government. In Slovenia, “no one has anything”. It's Balkan. Welcome to the legal or illegal country of Slovenia. What is the characteristic of the legal state of Slovenia, which is an irregular state? The division between citizens of the first and citizens of the second order. If you're a citizen of the First Order, you're a real leftist, then you're off 16 million debt, and if you're still writing Jankovic, there's still evidence of your suspicion of sexual abuse. There's no epilogue in court, nothing happens to you, you're legally clean as a tear. But if you're a second-class citizen, you take away your house for 124 Euros of debt, you get sold at auction, and you can sue back there to Strasbourg, and if you happen to succeed there, those years you lost and everything you've been through, you can't get anybody back. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what some have done here before. This is totally unacceptable, it is only in violation of the Constitution but it is a total denial and disgrace of the Slovenian state and we deny it by the institutions of the State of Slovenia. Anyone who does not understand what the principle of equality means before law means, please check at least some book that clearly states that the same laws apply to all citizens and citizens in the same way that all have the same rights, including the same right to judicial protection. However, what about this in Slovenia will have to look at specific cases. It is of great interest to me that the Government is disturbed by the listing of specific cases. Yes, how can you show what is wrong if you do not give specific examples? But if you speak in general, the same government will say: “Yes, you did not say anything concrete.” So I'm going to give you some concrete examples. Robert Fojaker's case. The man convicted of paedophilia, briefly excluded from society, 11 years of lawsuits in court, eventually all rejected, all finished, received 5,000 euros in compensation. In a normal state of law there would be a million dollars, you can trust me. The example of Zoran Vaskrisic, 124 euros in debt, is taken from his house, seized and sold at auction. Frank Kangler's case, first case of political murder. The accused, convicted, later a higher court, the following instance finds that he was convicted even of a crime that was not a criminal offence at all. Excuse me? It wasn't a crime at all. Do I spell it? This is happening in Slovenia. But as a result of all this prosecution, he was denied the possibility of being a state councilor, unable to represent the people, just as he was elected to the State Council and could not represent the local community he represented. In short, he had been violated in the gravest form of human and civil rights, and to this day the story is not complete. A similar case of the political murder of Anton Stichc. There was a mayor, suddenly there was an investigation that was extremely long, then he was deprived of his liberty, he was never charged at all, not then, be careful, not at any time later. No court epilogue. He was even deprived of the right to communicate with his neighbors, even his own mother. And behold, the person responsible for the investigation was elected to the same mayor one year later. That's what they say, first the discreditation, then the liquidation, in accordance with the instructions of the little great leader. The case of Andre Magajne. It's another case of political murder. Whether we would believe that we live in a country where billions of euros are being washed or even billions of dollars, but when it comes to a process against one Member, all the funds are being used there and then, look, a miracle, all the evidence is lost. Not only is all the evidence destroyed, not only is there no judicial epilogue in the end, but they even lost computers, those that were seized by him personally, the National Assembly and so on. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the right name to call yourself abuse of the system, abuse of the institutions of the system. A similar example, if you like, of Alenka Bratusek. What an investigation was against her if she dared to take part in a vote about herself, and I don't know what a massive corrupt act that was. Well, "bejšte" no. Sure. The case that was absurd ended in an absurd way, in the end it was nothing, but it has one very interesting part that borders, forgive me, in a normal country it would be called a coup. Because the police investigated Alenka Bratušek, carried out an investigation at the headquarters of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at Dr. Mir Cerar, if she believed in the reports, they took things away at the time of his absence. Very interestingly, I must say how this legal state works. But since it is, of course, “the crow does not turn off its eyes” they sometimes said, the matter did not have any epilogues. If they were a normal legally functioning country, believe me, if the President of the Government were to return from abroad, one of the ministers would say good-bye very quickly from his place. And that, like on Tibetan graves, was all quiet. By the way, how can we expect something else from the government and the ruling coalition, which itself formed on such a basis? The Patria trial. The reasoning of the Constitutional Court’s judgment states that, from the first to the last line, there was only one violation of human rights in all its works and actions. This is a brief summary of the Constitutional Court’s judgment. But even today, some still list here, and I believe that even they believe it is perfectly normal, that one investigation takes years and years to revive again right before the next elections and that it will experience the final, let's say, ecstasy in shutting down the chief of the opposition just before the next state elections. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone sitting here with the Government is worthy of illegality, because this government can be legally elected, but it is illegal because it has been elected in illegal circumstances. Even if she put them in the right light only later, she gave them to the Constitutional Court. But the matter is even more shameful because all those who voted in coalition lines for the discharge of John Janša from the city of the Member were warned that this is in clear contradiction with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which I have read to you, six judgments I have read to you. However, you voted as you did, and everyone in the last instance led by the President of Parliament, who even publicly declared that he would take responsibility if it turned out to be a violation of human rights after having experienced the epilogues' case in the Constitutional Court to leave his post, but nothing happened. For in this country there is the largest party and the entire ruling leftist coalition with one extension in the opposition, which went beyond respect for the rule of law and respect for responsibility as the basis of the rule of law, but when it comes to the question of responsibility then we are there, thirty years ago, “I hear no good” and then from “suddenly” no one knows anyone else, he knows the law, but above all it is said, yes, I was elected to power by you as you wish, no. This, of course, does not have anything to do with democracy, not with some fundamental, ethical principles on which Dr Cerar also swore to have absolutely nothing in common and I will say again what I said at the beginning. If a minimum of political responsibility were in force in this country, such legal “shamastika” as the rejection of evidence after two years, when the time limit for the filing of charges against Zoran Jankovic due to the suspicion of abuse of the position, namely the suspicion of sexual exploitation, went immediately to the Justice Minister or even to the whole Government. But with us, you've heard a word of responsibility. Then there would be no need for such a debate here today, there would be no need to interpellate, nothing would be necessary if at least some minimum political responsibility in this country were in force in this coalition, and nothing in the left side would apply. And that, of course, is why we are moving forward with cases. The problem is when the same people appear in the same procedures, even though we all know that this would not be acceptable when someone is already publicly declaring what he will do and, as an instance later, decisions in the process are, of course, cases that undermine confidence in the system institutions. Just like everything I've counted to this point. And the problem is, I'm afraid it's even planned. Because left-wing people are not meant to go to mass elections, they want as many blind people as possible to change the Constitution so that children from poorer families who are more talented could not go to those schools that give them a better program, private schools. Of course, left-wing students are in private schools, and the Lukšič case Mr Kučan sent his daughter to America to a private university and so on, you all know that. So, of course, by swearing on private education and imposing on private education, you prevent others from receiving appropriate education. And of course, your goal is to mess up the political system as many people as possible so that half of them will fall on that torch, how they're all the same, and we're not all the same, and we'll never be the same. One of them was silent as a grave when someone was laundering a billion euros here, and one of us discovered it. Some of them negotiated before the night of Slovenia's independence with the generals of JLA and with the officers of KOSA, while some of us carried weapons defending Slovenia. We've never been the same and we never will. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about today must be taken gravely seriously because it is a question of people's confidence in the system. And that's the basis for democracy's work. If there is no confidence in the system, of course people lose confidence in themselves in some way, in their voice, and do not realize that their voice is the one that decides in democracy. And then the election abstinence, which by the way is the characteristic of Slovenia. You know, we used to have 90% participation, but today, if it comes to 50%, everyone's happy, what a high participation it was. At the same time, it also hinders people from making decisions with all kinds of things, making it more difficult and going to elections and making decisions at referendums, etc. Of course, that's not good in democracy. However, in that case the measure is full, people are not given the proper conduct of law enforcement or judicial institutions, and the result is that we are on the tail or, if you want, at the bottom of justice, which is not good, but how people experience it themselves. I know in particular, a very good case, you probably all know who I'm talking about. If you're a citizen of the First Order, one journalist just writes that you could be corrupt, I speak from memory, I think it's been nine weeks, and he's been given a court-martial of this journalist's legal judgment, yoga, you've held back some suspicion over a citizen of the First Order. But if you're a second-class citizen, and even a family with children can be declared a Nazi, and you'll be suing in court for five years and six years, it won't be over. No, no, no, no. Ten years from now, maybe in Strasbourg, if he does. The question is, what happens if he's still alive? By the way, the courts turn it around so that in the end you can pay all the costs on your own, and in the end, when you find out that when you formally achieve that it is judged for your benefit, you are actually punished with such a, like, 40, 50 thousand euros of net punishment, because you've actually paid so much, and no one pays you back, and people don't understand it at all, and they don't understand how this system works. One of the main culprits for this side of the justice system is also the Justice Minister, who, by the way, when he presented his programme on the Justice Committee, promised that a greater selection of judges would be made to fulfil the coalition commitment to be a longer period of trial in judges to support the penal function of compensation, which was extremely much to say that I am in favour, so the law will have to be amended. You know what that means? This means that when someone does something bad to you, such as in health care or elsewhere, in different areas of social life, then such a punishment is imposed that no one else gossips about it. Today, because you know what's been going on in this country, there have been cases where some of them were deliberately operating with the worst material, etc., the worst consequences have happened, but what, the damages are so low that he still profited in the end. And the same calculation can be done in any area of social space. This is because we do not have the final function of compensation, although many have talked about it, for example, Ceferin wrote a book about it, Mr Minister, who has explicitly supported it, has not done this to date and therefore we have the same situation as we have. Just as he never exercised personal responsibility in all of those, they knew by name who were the most responsible in the cases we are talking about today. Even those who were specifically exposed by the Constitutional Court or their conduct or the specific case that they knew exactly that there was no minimum doubt about the command. And you know, the law applies the principle of silence. And whoever makes a fool out of this, let him think it over. It is not said that it will always apply to the citizen of the first order and that is why these things are so wrong. They should all be the same before marriage. Before the law, the same criteria should apply to all and should be the same for all when it comes to conduct, concrete conduct, if you wish, of law enforcement, but for some it is so, and for others it is different. And because of that, ladies and gentlemen, this democracy does not work as it should. Of course, it is not only a political issue or, if you want, a legal question, but it is also an important development issue. What do you think this looks like for one entrepreneur? There's as many cases as you want. Some people experience incredible speed again, and if they have that, we'll say again, first-order citizenship is not a problem. But I know a personal case when people were playing them, because you know what financial non-discipline is, and various frauds in the country of Slovenia, they went to court. But for his employees as an entrepreneur, he didn't get the money, so he went to the lawsuit. The Court ruled for so long that not only the company went bankrupt, there were even cases and you all know how many such cases there were, some were extremely well known when people committed suicide, they hung themselves because they simply did not wait for justice in court. What is really the right to judicial protection, constitutionally full of it? It is not only that you have the right to go to court, but that in court it is not manipulated that you, for example, as in an indemnity case that I mentioned earlier, throw back all three times, and you pay the costs, and the fees, and the lawyers, and so on and so forth, and they play with it, and at the end any outcome, in addition, the matter is endlessly prolonged, but it is also that, if at the end of the sentence, there must be a sentence within a reasonable period of time, and I fear that the current Government still has a completely different understanding of the concept of reasonable time, as is the case on average in the European Union, and on the other hand must also be the execution of the judgment or its execution within a reasonable period of time. Of course, all of this is very, very, very problematic when we talk about these things. And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have a division into citizens of the 1st Order, which is free of 16 million debts, which are discarded, otherwise irrefutable, the evidence of any sexual abuse, on the one hand, and on the other hand for 3 years, the person who is supposed to receive 200 euro bribes, or the house is taken from someone who owes 124 euros, so much time in this country is wrong, something does not work in accordance with the Constitution and so much time will not be trusted in the institutions of the system. The responsibility for this, ladies and gentlemen, is with those who decide. On the one hand, there is an executive branch of authorities where each minister is personally responsible, subjective and objectively, for the work he does in the field, as stated in the law, and on the other hand is the responsibility of the majority, the ruling majority, or, if you like, the ruling coalition for the adoption of relevant rules in the National Assembly and for their specific decision-making when it comes to decision-making in individual matters. With both of them, this coalition fell on the line. And then too often it hides for what the press likes to do, yes, the Parliament has decided so. No, it was the ruling coalition that decided, and when it warned itself in time, it didn't want to be heard. Specifically in the case that we are talking about today. We have proposed 3 decisions, with 1 in order to entrust the Government to collect all cases where in recent years either the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia or the Court of Human Rights of the European Union in Strasbourg have annulled individual judgments or found, undisputedly, a violation of human rights in the proceedings. On a proposal from the Government, the ruling coalition refused to do so. 2. The proposal was to then, on this basis, prepare a set of conclusions, actions, acts, whatever it takes to correct this on the one hand, which can be corrected, and on the other hand to prevent such things from happening. At the proposal of the Government, the ruling coalition also rejected this. And the third proposal of the decision was to establish a concrete responsibility, because it can be established in accordance with the Slovenian legal order, that is to say in a legal way, if someone in all these stories has left the obligation to act, that is, by the way, the definition of corruption and therefore answers or knowingly committed a criminal act, and that is to say that they should be held liable. If there is no such responsibility, at least disciplinary responsibility where a disciplinary offence can be proved. At the proposal of the Government, the ruling coalition also rejected this and thus made it crystal clear what is the policy of the ruling leftist coalition led by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Dr. Miro Cerar. If you're a little thief, a chicken thief, and you accept 200 euros in bribes, three years in prison, if you lose, you cheat on anything, 16 million already forgives you, but if you wash a billion, then "nothing". This is part of this story you've presented to the public. But the second part of the story is, as long as people vote for left-wings, it is a guarantee that they will not even want to talk about cases, in sky-drinking cases of human rights violations in justice, that nothing will be done to remedy the consequences of grave human rights violations in justice and to prevent such cases from occurring as far as possible, and for the third time that no one will ever answer for anything. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a left-wing policy. Against this, however, we are the SDS as a whole and will always be, and that is why this meeting is necessary today, and that is why it was necessary for this meeting to be held in cases where, even after two years, despite warnings by the competent judge, there is no timely charge against someone who is only a known leftist, although there is a hearing, appropriate evidence, hearings, all that a person can be accused of sexual abuse and then, of course, never experience a judicial epilogue. Of course, that's why 16 million debt is forgiven, and that's not the problem. This is totally unacceptable to ladies and gentlemen, it is a travesty of the rule of law and in fundamental disharmony with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this meeting is necessary. However, that the conclusions that I have previously presented on a proposal from the Government have been completely rejected and that we will not even make decisions about them today, contrary to what some have previously mentioned, is a first-class disgrace. I only hope that she looks at you now and listens to us all over Slovenia and that she will think very much about who she will give her voice to in the next elections, and I hope that no one will run like a zombie for new faces in the last elections. Then you get the same thing all the time, and it's always the same situation in justice and Slovenia's developmental decline. The only part of what's always different then, when we started to get rid of these things, was the period from 2004 to 2008, and it's interesting that even on a particular Kenda program, one of the left-handed people stumbled before, and it's someone who will soon be able to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the October Revolution and who likes to walk around in a shirt with the image of Che Guevara, a man who is a mass murderer and who goes by personally killing gays, homosexuals and young girls. And with a man like that, some brag. If that's what he's saying about justice, then we shouldn't be surprised if the state of justice is the way it is. But it's always up to voters and voters to be right in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Government. What about the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the abuse of detection and prosecution authorities and the judiciary? First of all, in Desus, we point out that the very policy of undermining mistrust in the judiciary has contributed greatly to the dissatisfaction of people. We believe that in this mandate, the Government or the Ministry of Justice has taken many good steps towards improving the situation in the judiciary, and, ultimately, judicial procedures have been reduced in large part, according to statistics. Many solutions and measures have been put in place to enhance transparency in the functioning of the judiciary. Let me just name a few. A more objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for election in the judicial and prosecutorial functions has been established, a mandatory public publication of the list of deletions from the catalogue of lawyers and the reasons for this and the names of all disciplinary bodies in the framework of the Bar of Slovenia has been introduced. Compulsory public publication of principled opinions to the Commission for Ethics and Integrity within the framework of the judiciary and the prosecution is introduced. Separate opinions have been introduced in the Supreme Court and many other measures already presented by the Government in its opinion. We all probably agree that in some legal culture, which is based on a high level of trust between the people of the country and institutions, trust in the judiciary is one of the most important elements, but unfortunately, confidence in the judiciary in Slovenia and ultimately the confidence of citizens in power is unfortunately at a low level in this Chamber of democracy. However, it must be said that there are already better results in the area of confidence in the judiciary. Thus, in the past 20 years, the problem of Slovenian justice has been a key issue of uncontrollable judicial backlog, and many levers have been accepted for their incarceration. And in doing so, we have been very successful, which is also recognised by the international institutions. Finally, at the end of 2016, the secretariat of the Council of Europe assessed that Slovenia, by adopting legislative organisational, information and other measures, had eliminated the legal backlogs, indicating that the measures and efforts carried out by all employees in the judiciary had led to a situation where the judiciary was no longer so burdened by the duration of the proceedings and the number of outstanding cases. There was a lot of talk about the number of judges or judges in the Republic of Slovenia. This was also a step forward, as the trend continued in 2016 to reduce the number of judges and judges to 100,000. By way of information, 44.3 at the end of 2015 at 43.6 at the end of 2016, the judiciary is getting closer to the goal of 42 judges per hundred thousand inhabitants in Slovenia. So, in light of what we're saying, it's hard to say that there's nothing going on in the area of justice. Of course, we agree that everything is not in the best order. For example, we would welcome debates, such as the reorganisation of the judiciary. In such a debate as we have today, we cannot go beyond the fact that it is a mere attempt at political and personal accounting with the former President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, current Minister Klemenčić, and how it is to be understood from the materials of the proponents, including many other politically-known faces. However, we do not support such discussions in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia because it shows that this time it is only to continue a harmful and dangerous campaign to undermine confidence in the judiciary. That is why we have already rejected such recommendations on the Committee on Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jernej Vrtovec will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u20	Dear colleagues, I wish you a good day. The key issue in this regard is certainly not a political debate or debate on what Slovenia we live in, what Slovenia we want, must go beyond the framework of daily policy and the insinuation of whether or not it is a political account. So the key question is whether we live in a just country, whether we have a just country. So, a country without double standards. And my answer and New Slovenia's response is certainly that Slovenia is not a just country or a just state to all the same and that there have been a number of double criteria in this country for many years, when one is virtually all allowed, and on the other we have a so-called "small fish", which are honest citizens and regularly pay taxes and so on, and so on, for certain minorities, the law punishes them very quickly. And that is also true if someone makes mistakes if someone does not act in accordance with the law, the Constitution, it is right that he is punished. See, 77% of people in Slovenia think that Slovenia is not a just country. That's what the statistics show, so we have a double-criteria country. And people are justifiably losing confidence in the country, so we are partly guilty of ourselves, both in politics and in the judiciary. He also loses confidence in the economy and in 2012, when the economy peaked in Brdo, it was the first requirement of the economy - which - I ask. The request was: We need a state of law. Why? To protect the money, the capital of these people in the country. And we can't call foreign investors if we don't have a state of law, if we don't have a guardian in this area to take care of these people's money, to invest. Cases that show that Slovenia is not a just country are not a just country to all the same. Let me first expose corruption in health care. How many people in this country who are responsible have been criminally and retaliatoryly responsible for corruption in health care? Or we can list them on the fingers of one hand, and all doctors in the Ljubljana Clinical Center say that corruption is taking place. The story of TES 6 is familiar to all of us. How many people, including those who raised huge sums of unexplained money on ATMs every day, are responsible for these acts, criminally and indemnity? Where are the procedures, and how long are they dragging? No one's ever answered for that. Banquet crime, in the sky-screaming stories that indicate that something is very wrong in our country. How many bankers are legally convicted of criminal and indemnity? Nobody. And the key issue in this, in particular with regard to banking crime, is what is wrong with us as a country, that we do not know how to deal with those scoundrels, literally, not just because they were blind to unprotected loans, but in the meantime they were, proven, also crimes. What's wrong with us that we don't know how to bring these people criminally and indemnity to justice. But it's not that they want to be hurtful. It's not that they want someone to be criminally and indemnityly responsible for their mistakes. No, it is about establishing the same criteria, the same conditions for all people in this country. Money laundering at the New Bank of Maribor and NLB, allegedly money laundering, is taking place for seven, eight, ten years. Only now has it been found that this has ever occurred, and no one has ever been responsible for it. Money in tax havens and so on. On the other hand, we have cases, but first I'm going to remind your colleague of the Secretary of State at one of the ministries, and I think he's the Ministry of Public Administration. It was just a pâté in one of the smaller stores, and the poor man was responsible to God, and he lost his job, and I don't know how the proceedings against him are going, but he was right to answer. It's the right thing to do. Other cases, however, I say from one visit, one of the fairs in southern Slovenia, when someone on the “stand” gave a fellow souvenir, but besides not having to be also an inspector, 3,000 euros was fined for this act, because he gave and gave without an account of course. Yes, it was a possible crime, however, but on the other hand, compared to the poor person who donated the souvenir, on the other hand, someone who has exhausted money from banks that, for example, allowed credit to, for one project in the vicinity of Ljubljana on a construction site, not a wally plot of millions of euros, this plot is not yet built, not wally, never has the congregation ever decided on it. But to you, I do not think this man is still swinging after, even with Government assistance through the State authorities, and if then what is the task of politics and that is also the goal of me and my political party of New Slovenia to establish in this country a just country, a just home for all citizens and citizens. Cases where the state is not fair enough or does not have the same conditions, there is very much of the same criteria. And with regard to the judiciary, the fact is that the judicial branch of power is an independent branch of power, but we cannot distort that, but see the power itself does not only mean justice and power. I'm sure you don't. On the other hand, on the other hand, there is a great deal of responsibility for the legitimate, proper and effective exercise of a trusted function. Many times in the judiciary we see at lower levels how the translation is carried out, it clearly places responsibility on the higher cases, so that a certain story would not be burned in certain stories. But look, the judiciary has not only the right but also the responsibility. And the problem is not in rights, but in accountability and our legislation is still focused on the so-called collective responsibility, unfortunately. Which, in other words, means that no one has virtually any responsibility for any decision. And the decision-making bodies know who they are, the Court of Justice, the Personal Council, the State Prosecutor's Council, the Disciplinary Commission and these authorities of ladies and gentlemen can practically hide, hide all those who have influence and power of decision, but it is only worth pointing out another very large element, including the individual who assumes a high function, so the person can be it with absolute personality and moral integrity, and there can probably never be any doubt about this. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very problematic topic, namely, to have a common objective of ensuring the same criteria, equal conditions, a fair country for all citizens and citizens in this country. This is also why in New Slovenia, we have, of course, supported the proposal on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. We are holding a general debate between the Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. He has a word, please, Mr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Well, I have the habit of going in kind of order in the light of previous debates, but not all of you and those watching us, in fact, I remind you that in my opening remarks I have asked my interlocutors, in particular Mr Radič, Mrs Popot and so on, to try to answer some questions, and I will repeat this, and of course I have not experienced this. Now, with Mr Radič, I don't even know what he was talking about, as much as with Mrs Porotat, as if it were a bad leaf as it had happened to Mr Kopmajer months ago here. We are not talking today, see, today we are not talking about what a judicial reform is, but the backlog and the number of judges. Yeah, who's talking about that? They gave you the wrong brick. Or you have nothing to say. I think SD did the best thing. Look, he has nothing to say. He has nothing to say. They don't have downstretched positions. [[…]] And it's probably a more responsible act, because when you keep quiet, you answer a hundred questions than you sell stupid things that aren't on the agenda. It's a troubled story. But let's go in one order. Look, now, Secretary of State, I thought that, as in the morning, that you'd be both men, I mean the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State, left and sent her into this fire just like it happened this morning, but well, anyway, she's gone, now you're here. Look, she said that the proponent creates the thesis that, of course, the judiciary is not the same as everyone. That's not a problem! Those are the facts! These are facts, not difficulties. Let's go in one order. How could a man in Imopla get two years of probation yesterday because he put or damaged a million and 600 or so Impols in his pocket and how could that man get three years unconditionally for 250 euros in technical checks. [[…]] Is that some kind of thesis? This is the fact that we have the privilege and that we have ordinary citizens who are being hit on the head by the judiciary. Well, that's not a problem. How is it possible for the court to give a reminder to Eco Park Lendava or Murska Sobota because thousands of Euros have unlawfully ordered Mr Danil Türk to run an electoral campaign and at the same time say 100 Euros in the same way as the unlawfully ordered money to Mr Fishtravec, and to this company will be fined 5,000 euros. Is that some kind of thesis? That's a fact! That's a fact, that's not a problem! How can it be possible for a man to take away the justice of the house, Vaskrsić, for 125 euros of outstanding debt and how can he at the same time write down 16 million dollars to Janković? 16 million write-offs, that's for sure! Is that a thesis? That's a fact! It's a decision of the court! So I can't accept that. Now, the Secretary of State lists the following successes. Yeah, we're not talking about that! The number of judges is decreasing, the number of judges is lagging behind, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about real cases based on judicial decisions. Now she says there's no abuse in court. So there's no abuse. And now I'm going to try to justify this point, because abuses are not all from the judiciary, the prosecution from the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, it's not all like that. [[…]] You have cases where the police have nothing to do with this, the Foykar case. The D.A. "stuck" that he was guilty and certainly guilty, for 11 years. And the judiciary actually annulled this abuse of the prosecution, so much so that we're in the clear. You have a Kangler case, and it's a police conspiracy! Now, whatever you're looking at, it's a police conspiracy. That's what I'm going to justify. The prosecution's abuse, and the court is correcting the case. So it's not all about the whole line. But you do have cases when it comes to abuse all over the line. But I have to make myself clear here, a case like this. When we discussed a topic on Mrs Irgl's committee a few months ago, you were present, the Secretary of State, and then we left that Chamber, and the Chief of Criminal Police was pretty angry with me, if you know what I just said. Well, and I told him, look, you, because I'm tickling him, because after all, he's my student, you started the Patria case, which went through the D.A., even through the trial to the Constitutional Court. Through the ordinary court to the Constitutional Court. His answer was, "oh, oh, the thing is out of date." So, for one of the highest police officers, the people in Patia's case are guilty, unfortunately, but the matter is out of date. Look, in a race of concepts, I'm afraid to live in a country like this because it's a different story. The Constitutional Court said that there was no separate opinion, and that there was a single, nine constitutional judges, that there was no separate opinion: Article 28 of the Constitution was violated, and we did not judge the other. Okay, so they've ruled that the police, the prosecution and the regular judiciary have dealt with, accused and tried people who have not committed a crime. Article 28 of the Constitution is this. So it's a total abuse, from the police, the prosecution to the judiciary, only the Supreme Court, so the Constitutional Court has fixed it. Now, of course, they're gonna say to the police, yes, we're dealing with it, we're working on the D.A.'s direction. Yeah, yeah. I've said it's the other way around. The police are directing the prosecution. You know that, Minister. But we can talk about this another time because it's too extensive and too demanding a topic or a very difficult topic. But the D.A.'s office is gonna say, "Yah, the police haven't collected enough evidence." But the judge will say we're independent. But we had five people or four people in prison for all the abuse, if you want, all the abuse. Now, Dr. Vatovec, who is not, of course, he escapes, most of those who speak before me, and he has drawn the line today, he said that we refer to cases of requests concerning members of the SDS. We can go take a look. Vaskrsić has never been a member of the SDS, at least I don't know, Kangler was never a member of the SDS, nor do I know that he would be a member of the SDS, Mr Magajna is not a member of the SDS, Jerlinčič has a client, he probably knows this, he is not our member, Mrs Bratušek is also our member, but here the case is mentioned, Jankovic is not our member either. Do you believe it isn't? He's not our member. Zalar, Fisher, Shkrgec, they're not our members. Clemensche to be our member? No, it's not. There's no agent, there's no Furlan, there's no Cos, there's no Robb, there's no Gypsies, there's no Funk. These are the cases we're referring to here. He says that, of course, we are trying to rehabilitate SDS representatives in our request. Do you know what a kind statement that is? That's a vague statement from a man with a doctor's name. I'd expect it to get a little deeper. Yeah, but of course he noticed the sale of the house, and he noticed that. But this is our case, in here, in the sky. Of course, it's usually about the rehabilitation of John Janša. [[Incomprehensible]] That's not true. He doesn't need any rehabilitation. The Patria case was concluded by the Constitutional Court and does not require any rehabilitation. But I would, you know what I would need, and I would agree that the President of the National Assembly, when that happened and when the Constitutional Court said it, would say at the outset, and I will now address the National Assembly, and the President would go up there and apologize on behalf of all those who pressed for the removal of the mandate. You see, that would be, and that would be, and that would be a saddle, but unfortunately, the coalition couldn't do it. He says it's about rehabilitating suspects. How does the rehabilitation work for Mr Magajna, for example? He doesn't need any rehabilitation, because he's not guilty. But he needs an apology from the responsible people of the police and the prosecution, if you like, but not from the judiciary, because the judiciary has spoken. So it's not about rehabilitation. Does Kangler need the rehabilitation we're dealing with here? He doesn't have to. So far, the judiciary has dropped 13 criminal charges. But he needs an apology from you, Minister, and so does the prosecution. Why? Because it was an abuse, pure abuse. 20 criminal charges, and for most of them, are from the time of Mr. Funk, which you have now awarded as general. And on 20 criminal charges, 13 of them were dismissed. It's not his fault. Why am I talking about abuse there? That is why I am talking about abuse, because the crime police in Maribor have been very clear in a different way to collect information about it, as they call it, and you know, whenever it was necessary to follow the house investigation order, but, look at it, Mr. Žirovnik has always been an on-call investigative judge, always. What does that mean? That they were waiting, and then they looked at the list of who the investigating judge was. Ah, Girovnik, let's go, this one will give the order, because maybe some other judge wouldn't give it. That's why it's an abuse. The abuse is also a matter of concealing evidence, that is, all hearings and all other things must be handed over by the police, as you yourself know this, to the prosecution or to the prosecution. No, a copy was made, illegal copies were made, and then they shared them a little there with some prosecutors, if they could find anything else. That's why I'm talking about abuse. And the abuse was eliminated by the judiciary, and it ended it. Now Mr Radič has said nothing, absolutely nothing. I think there's some lines from what he's already said to the Cossacks' judgment. It's not the agenda, it's not the satire on the radio. I'd expect him to say something about these cases, but he didn't say anything. Now Mrs. Porotatova is the same, improvements in justice. That's not what we're saying. We're talking about abuse. Next, the number of judges. That's not what we're saying in this request. You'd better tell us what I asked you to do. And then, a million and a half years probationary, technical checks in Kranj, 250 euros, 3 years, unconditionally, prison. Explain that to me. But you have to explain this to me, because you won't be able to explain it to people, to people who give more than €80 for the functioning of justice at the annual level and to people in Germany half less, and to people who give more than €80 for the functioning of justice at the annual level in Scandinavia four times less. Explain why the story with Mr Türk, EUR 1,500, is for a warning and why EUR 100 in the case of Fishtravec is a fine of EUR 5,000. Explain this to the people, because you did not explain it to me. Explain to the people and explain to the people about the quality of the judiciary, especially to the mother or the lady in New City who are not in the case 10 days ago, have called for the sale of the apartment on the auction, because the lady is without money and owes EUR 350 and wants to sell a two-bedroom apartment and dump it on the road. Explain that to her. Explain this to her that it is a just state because she will surely ask you why Jankovic has written down 16 million. Explain it to her. Look, I'm fine. But when I told the press that I would pay 350 euros just to keep the lady in the apartment, the court stopped the proceedings, you know, they called off the complaint. You have to explain to people. Explain to the visitor of my office and tell him about a fair trial that he received three years ago or something like that on his head, beat by the father-in-law of the Minister of Justice, and tell him immediately, you'll be in the trench before it's in court. And that's what's happening. I invite you to come with me to the office. I invite you both to go to his house, and you explain the justice of justice. I can't explain it. And don't talk to me about justice, and I don't know what you're talking about, but if you're not there for justice. And you were talking about the political account with Klemenčič. Excuse me, I'm talking about the wheel this guy got on his head with. What's the deal with the minister? It's not a matter of discussion with the minister. In fact, the material that's before us in 90% has nothing to do with the minister. After all, the Minister has no effect on justice, on the decisions of the judiciary. We're not even talking about him here. At one point, we touch on him, where we talk about violations of laws and the reward he then received. Is this a deal with him? He broke eight laws, that's what the Court of Auditors said. Well, he was awarded a ministerial position. Is this a deal with him? No, Mrs. Popot, it's not an account with him, it's not. So you don't cry and get out, like you already did. It's not for you to give me an argument to say what I'm saying, and then sell me something that, of course, is absolutely not true. Explain to me that it is a just state and that it is a just justice when, in the case of Kangler, he uses more than two years of hearing without problem. When, in the case of Jankovic, the same hearings can be destroyed. Now tell me if this is justice. At this point, Secretary of State, ask what the D.A.'s opinion on this case is. Over 85% of severe cases where hearings are also used are used after two years. That's how it is right now. That's the D.A.'s information. And if this case-law, which was used in the case of Jankovic, we have ended up with all the serious crime or with the judicial proceedings in which the hearings were used. I know the government doesn't agree, because I know that, I get that. We still have an authentic explanation. But the judiciary, so the Supreme Court has rushed this case. Now that we accept the authentic explanation next month that it is also allowed to use earphones after two years, I suppose we will accept this because the Government agrees, we also agree on this matter, but what now? Now this will apply from now on. This means that until now it has been considered that you can use hearings over two years of age, for example Jankovic is not valid, but now it will be valid again. Such a situation will be after the November meeting of the National Assembly and an authentic explanation. Is that a fair trial? It's not a fair trial. And I will not give up until the last second of the possibility of using this microphone, I will not give up, it is said to call for the next meeting of the National Assembly, the next assembly of the National Assembly after the election, because after this table I will not be at this table anymore. By my will, not by whose will. And I won't give up, I won't give up. Until the judiciary establishes a system that will be just for all, for all. From the first to the last, but not by losing a house for 150 or 120 euros, when the question is 16 million Jankovic, they write off. That's not the kind of justice our people need. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Please step up, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I propose that you tell the motioner that I am not in this House, not to explain why judges or courts have decided in some cases, as they have decided, that I cannot explain and not my jurisdiction. I've only given my position to the Desus Group and nothing more so that please such low-levels are not suitable for this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Proposer, please. Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u26	Thank you very much. If that is the case, then I would suggest to you, Mrs Porotatova, that you do not perform as the SD did, which did not perform. I believe that SD is more or less in agreement with what we have written. This is a better option than not talking about the topics that are here before us. But the subjects I've been talking about are the topics we're dealing with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u27	Well, in any case, Mrs Porotat said the position of the Group of Ambassadors, you "tagged" her as if she was in the defence of the courts, the police and the prosecution, and, of course, her comment was quite interim. Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor to prepare Mrs Teja Ljubič. Here you go, Mr. Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u28	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Now, on these matters, we are witnessing again one session where we are discussing cases of action. I think we have already discussed this mandate several times. I believe that today's meeting is actually some kind of pre-interpellation warm-up that has been filed against the Minister of Justice and that, with this debate today, there is some impression that there is something very, very wrong with justice, but I do not think that the applicant is the most convincing in this regard. The examples that we repeat today and will hear again are, of course, cases where there is justice or I will say the whole system, including prosecution for the police, where they are kneeling, where they have not done their work as at least the citizens expect them to do, but we need to know that these cases are that they have something in common. That is to say, cases that have arisen and that have taken place far before this mandate, and I wonder whether this is what the purpose of today's meeting is, if things have ended five years ago, or maybe the applicant did not know what was wrong with the individual case, or whether what I said earlier is that it is actually just some false creation of an extraordinary state in the judiciary, all before the intervention against the Minister of Justice. The applicant gave a number of examples in his material, which covered only one explanation of the request for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Now, Mr Gorenak is asking us, colleague Kotnik Poropat has asked to comment on certain judgments. Of course, we do not have these judgments in this annex and, in fact, none of us can comment on them. That's why it's completely inappropriate. However, I may point out a few things about what they are and what time they come from. For example, for example, Fojkar, from 1999 and then took place until 2007. For example, Vaskrsić, selling, if I'm not mistaken in 2013, correct me if I'm wrong. Then, Franz Kangler, an example that goes through a number of mandates, but still comes from previous mandates. The case of Šichec in 2010. The 2010 Magajna case, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti 2010, Alenka Bratušek September 2014, and the case of Patria, we also know from when, otherwise, he ended up in the Constitutional Court, in this mandate or then the case was outdated, but this is a case arising from the previous mandate of one of the governments. I would like to say that today this, this situation or this one assessment, is very poor, the political assessment of this justice is justified by cases which are, after most of the very ad act, and the most disturbing thing is that it wants to expose some alleged inequality between the first-class countries, if I remember correctly, the second-class citizens. I believe that there is such a division today, but this meeting will not resolve it, because the cases you are referring to are examples of politicians. I believe that you have given Mr Vaskrsić and Mr Fojakr only to excuse a number of other cases where we have a prosecution, a just or unjustifiable, of the politicians themselves. Franc Kangler - mayor, Anton Štyhec - mayor, Andrej Magajna - MP, Zmago Jelinčič - MP, Alenka Bratušek - MP, example Patria - politics itself. And don't say you want to point out some inequality, and then you just talk about politics. Because I'm sick of it. Be honest with the citizens, if you want to draw attention to irregularities in justice, give examples of citizens rather than politicians. Let me give you a few more articles that I found in the media. Let's say, of all of these, there are two cases of ordinary citizens, let's say. Robert Fojakr's case, I have not heard that he would be involved at any time in politics, in the fiscal state of the judiciary, in justice, in serious charges, and then nothing, in short, I believe that the Lord has suffered a great deal of damage with such a procedure that has not been completed. I won't speculate for any reason, though. This case has also reached one political conclusion, even a press conference convened during the Minister of the Interior of Mr Vinko Gorenak. And at this conference he said: We can report to the court that it did not work legally - no. And you said, Mr. Gorenak, we can report to the prosecution that it didn't work legally - no. I'm not going to go into judgment on these words of yours, but today, after what I've heard a little earlier, they sound very strange. Not even when you're talking about the case seven years later. The case of Zoran Vaskrsić, you were also Minister of the Interior. Otherwise, there was one statement, I also read it from the media, this is all available on the Internet, at the time of the assignment you were invited to say that due to the excessive use of force in the work of Mr Vaskrsić and the family that you could withdraw, and then you stepped into the police's defence and you just said that everything was legal. I mean, what I'm saying is that I don't want to say whether you were doing right or wrong at the time, but that today your words sound very strange when you want to connect this case with the current, I don't know, Justice Minister. For example, Patricia. The case of Patrie is one of the most likely cases discussed in this House. It ended the way it ended. Now, the question is, of course, some kind of surveillance. When I talk about statistics, about how many citizens trust in justice, I am sure that perhaps even the same number of citizens who do not trust justice because the Patria case has even begun, such as those who are convinced that they should end up with a conviction. Both may be dissatisfied with the work of the court and other authorities, but the statistics you are talking about do not say anything about why people are disappointed with justice. Or because no one has been convicted, or because they have been tried in the first place. However, it is indicative that this procedure, one part of this story has been dealt with before a court in the Republic of Austria and that Mr Wolfgang Riedl is sitting because of bribery in Slovenia, so that this case is not entirely invented as it wants to show itself and has its very real foundations, but of course in this House it is often intended to show that it is some fictional story that there is nothing on it, that it is actually all made up, but if we really believe it, then we can wonder where it is with the justice of Austria at all, if one of us, if the judiciary allows himself to bring someone into criminal proceedings for the sake of justice, where is Austria, then only Austria, which even condemns him and put him in prison? So it's all a matter of interpretation after all. I do not wish to give any silence to the judiciary by today's debate so that such matters do not arise. These are disturbing things that affect the mistrust of all citizens. Maybe even when it comes to policies, but I think that if we want to justify changes in justice, a change in policy, we have to do it in cases that touch the most, let's say ordinary citizens and not dedicated politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u30	Yeah, look, manipulator one but you are. That's right. In Austria, someone has been convicted of the Patrio case and you connect it to the Patria people know, Janša and so on. Do you know there's another Patricia? Wait! [[advertising from the hall]] You don't know that, do you? He was convicted and got money from these sources. And you see how manipulative you are? Let's move on. You quoted something there that we can't report to the D.A. and the D.A., me. Give me an example! An example, which, I can answer, not half quote. Give me that paper, give me that press release, and I'll give you an answer. Next. I was in 2012, not 2013 but 2012, as you said, called for a withdrawal due to excessive use of force. Yes, please! The sob major screamed at the subject. Do you think every minister will resign if one citizen wants to resign? Where did you see that? When you're Minister, you'll be able to talk about it. Let's move on. In the case of Vaskrsić, I have seriously considered that the President of the Government, at the time, I say something, the police are obliged to provide assistance in evicting, which she is obliged to do under law. But I wanted to say this to him, and I'm disgusted that the cops are going to do something that I know is unfair to throw a man out of the house for 140 or 120 euros. But we didn't do it, and I didn't propose it, but I was seriously thinking about it. And what did the police do? She assisted because she had to assist in the unjust decision of the judiciary. Let's move on. Look what you're saying. We don't, you've been talking about how we put politics in here. Look, Funk, politics. It's not. He used to be a politician. Now he's not. Rob, he used to be a politician, now he's not. Someone was never a politician, Furlan was never a politician, the Agent was not a politician. Let's move on, Fisher wasn't a politician, Skrlec was a time, Zalar was a time, etc. Why do you talk about cases and mention only some and not all that are listed here? You're saying we don't have a verdict, we won't comment, you read the kitnge, and it'll be enough. Read the media, and that'll do it. Look what you said about Foykar being a 1999 case. That's not true. You're manipulating. It started in 1999 and ended in 2013, with my apology on behalf of the state. Not to say it's 1999, be a little more accurate. Vassarsic is not 2012 or 2013 but is 2012, etc. And again, you said the Patricia case was obsolete. Yes, of course. Have you ever heard of defendants complaining that they hadn't aged what they were. It is formally clear, however, that article 28 of the Constitution was violated, and the proceedings ran for something that is not a crime. As a lawyer, you should know that. Let's move on. Well, here I agree, you believe we have first and second graders. That's what you said. Congratulations on your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs Teja Ljubič has the floor to prepare Mrs Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u32	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greetings to all present, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I must say that I am constantly, nicely said, fascinated by the way in which individual, particularly reverberating, media-response court cases appear, and forgive me the expression, self-declared legal experts, who apparently do not know, feel called to every time they have five minutes of time, to publicly comment on the case. Well, I don't want to be misunderstood at first. I do not think that individual cases should be discussed, that they should not be commented on. After all, this is the legitimate right of each individual. I find this public or media comment to be more controversial here, especially if we are not thoroughly familiar with them or if we do not have some reliable information about them. It seems unfair to me, however, to judge a matter on the basis of some information coming from the media, because I think we all realize that different information can come from the media, including those that may not be fully held, which are not verified, which are distorted, misleading, etc. This paper, which we have received from the proponents, lists some specific cases for which I must say that I do not know exactly what key they have been chosen and allocated to this set. Now, I'm not going to define these cases today because I don't know them to the extent that I can argue them here. I also do not know where these particulars come from, which are set out in this proposal. Now I don't know if it's just some summary of the media releases or whether it's some kind of subjective evaluation of the applicants, it's some kind of credible information, I don't know. But I'll be honest with you. Nor does it seem right for us to point out or expose certain individuals and their cases in the material with names and surnames. And I'll tell you why. Look, for example, as the first example given by Mr. Robert Fojker. Now, I don't know, I understand from this material that this was completed in 2009. Now, Mr. Gorenak, you said that in 2013, but still. After all these years now you're dragging this case out again, here you're mediaically exposing it. I don't know if I'd put myself in Mr. Fojaker's place. I doubt I'd give a damn if I'd care now after a few years. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Again [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, yeah, I don't know, I don't know. To bring me up again and expose me to the media to discuss my case. I just think that these people who have gone through some sort of procedure want peace in the first place. [[advertising from the hall]] But it's not going to be misunderstood. I do not defend the judiciary, and I also believe that certain improvements or movements are necessary in the judiciary or in the judiciary, but I would like to avoid discussing this in the way we are discussing today, by exposing certain cases, but to discuss in a different way, more professionally and in an argumentative manner, which is what I miss many times in this National Assembly. Now, again and again here I also hear that the judiciary must be effective, that the procedures are too long, that people do not trust the judiciary and so on and so forth. Yes, justice or judicial proceedings must be primarily just and only then everything else, but of course we are running into a question here, what is justice, what are righteous judicial proceedings, what is justice. I strongly doubt that we could find a single answer here that everyone could agree with. In this case, then, it is one of those questions that a person can never find a definitive answer to, only he can try to ask better. Now, the fact is that a court or judge can never make a decision that everyone would agree on and that would be the one and only best decision. If nothing else, at least that party who has lost it will disagree with a court decision. This party will always say that, I don't know, the judgment wasn't justified that it wasn't fair, that it was irregular and so on. We are not robots now, and we are not all thinking in the same way and making the same decisions. Now some subjectively best solution or decision taken under certain given circumstances and at a given time is not necessarily the best solution or decision at the same time. Undoubtedly, changes in the system are needed. However, I believe that changes in people are also needed. Allow me to conclude this debate with the words of our legal philosopher, theorist and diplomat who once said, quote: “We will not create, we will not share, and we will not find justice if there is no justice in us.” End of quote. I think these words are still quite relevant today. And I wish a lot of people would remember them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Iva Dimic, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u34	Thank you very much. I would just like to say in response when you point out that we have withdrawn some of the cases and made them public that there was agreement here that we can read about these cases in the media, if you type these cases in a lot of articles on this subject, but they did, except for the case of Vaskrisić, which is the judgment of the European Court of Justice, the ECHR and, of course, such a judgment is public. However, when you say that we may abuse people and that this is not the way we do things, I would like to say that the Ombudsman also points out in his annual reports that there are substantively poor judgments, which are also poorly reasoned. That's the kind of judgment that falls. Such judgments were the ones we are talking about today. And what's interesting is that every judgment like that is written by a man with a name and a surname, but actually what happens when a judgment like that falls. I think the cost of such a judgment, when it comes to the state, is borne by all taxpayers. And that's not right. Because abroad knows and recognizes the responsibility of a judge for a bad judgment that has wronged an individual. But guilt, we all know, is severe and in heaven screaming for every single one of us, and it is hard to fix. Given that the highest role in all this appointment, which judges will now and in the future judge us, I think it is the Council of Justice, which we have already talked a lot about in this National Assembly, that it is necessary to change the composition of the Council of Justice if we are to change anything in this country even within justice. And until recently, until recently, the Council of Justice did not have any legally prescribed criteria for the selection of a candidate for a judge appointed by him until recently. We changed that a year or two ago. And these judgments actually, some of them, I believe they are today, but they come from the past when they actually rewarded themselves. And the Council of Justice was actually working against all of this. We know what he has appointed and proposed to a judge, something beyond the line, with no criteria, no experience, which we have also rejected in this national assembly as a first case. But there's something I'd like to warn you in this place when I have the chance. That any judgment must be based on the Constitution and the law. Thus, legal certainty can be guaranteed to citizens. If it is not based on the Constitution and the law, then we cannot say that citizens have some legal certainty. And I'm really worried about what's going on right now that some court practices are starting to take place. Sometimes, many times, citizens too have this feeling, for individual cases, for individual people. And this once again gives a sense of a two-tier state of law, a country for one country and a country for the other. But all of us here, I think we have to work and I am taking recommendations, where it is stated which cases have been risky, but as a reminder that this will no longer occur in the future. And I don't take it that we've abused some of them, as you may have felt. This is no abuse because they want to expose the case themselves. I, too, could point out a number of cases from the parliamentary group when they come, people receive incomprehensible, unreasonable judgments and it is not possible to understand what was the legal basis for their decision and are cited as judicial decisions, judicial practices with which citizens are not familiar and not a formal source and are often even contrary to the law. It seems to me that this is problematic and this creates people's confidence in justice. It is necessary to remove any doubts and if we have judgments based on the Constitution and the law, then we have judgments that actually cannot go elsewhere on any higher levels of the trap. But if we don't, then we do, so I want the future work of the judiciary to be based on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mrs. Ljubic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u36	Yeah, thank you very much again for saying that. Dear colleague Dimic, because I will not replicate anything like this, but in my debate I never said that you used these people, but I did not understand from this material that these people agreed that you were here and that we are now discussing them here. So please don't turn your back on my words, because I never said that. Now, if these people just agree, I just OK, okay, I don't see any problems. But it would be nice if that came from this material, or if we had said that before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Very briefly, there will be no mistake that no one else will answer. All those mentioned under Roman number one in the text agreed. Under the Roman number one, minus Mr Vaskrsić, which is just there, the ECHR judgment is the foundation. By the way, look, I have one such sweet duty. Mr Robert Fojkar, who has been mentioned as such, says: "Please continue, once again with my permission, who does not want to hear the crap that the prosecutor has done to me, continue and, if it is not clear to anyone, read this SMS." Anything else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u40	Thank you very much for taking the floor. In the introduction, the Secretary of State said something like this, at the Ministry or Government, we believe that the area of detection, detection and prosecution, and the judiciary, is not shocking or alarming, so she stated. Well, my opinion and also these examples, which are cited and many other cases, some of the examples that I will highlight today not only show that the situation is alarming and shocking. We have a justice system, which is unjust, which is not just, and we have a system, I speak entirely from persecution, detection and so on where big pigs are going, pigs being respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u41	I'm asking you nicely if it's tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u42	Pigs.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u43	One more kind expression.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u44	And I'll tell you why and please don't stop me, Chairman. A billion euros of laundered money went through this country, a billion euros, and you say it's not bullshit, it's more than bullshit.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u45	I didn't say that. I was just asking for a better expression if you could.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u46	And I'm talking about this, and I'm talking about how these billions of euros have been washed up about crime, terrorism and what are ours, what our system has been doing all this time. On the one hand, in this National Assembly, we have often heard about the need to do something about the detection of banking crime. This has been discussed many times since the citizens of 2013 restored this system. But what was really going on? Look at this case, Farrokh. Let me remind you once again of what the investigative committee has found. The Commission of Inquiry, which was actually established only because of the persecution, because the discovery and the judicial branch of the authorities in this country are not functioning and has discovered everything they should have discovered or discovered what they were hiding under your carpet. On the question of the investigative commission to the police or the police made a report under the law for the prosecution according to the law, the answer was: “No, there has never been such a document.” There has never been such a document. So it's the police shit. Of course, the matter is even more difficult, talking about the fact that even the prosecution just didn't collapse, but it could have been, given that it was previously connected to the police, Mr Hari Furlan, who was performing another function, then came to the prosecution, but of course he didn't know anything about this case. Interesting. Interesting. Of course, the case didn't come to court. But what's our situation today? Those who knew about this, then President of the KPK, today the Minister of Justice, who on the one hand says that our justice system is in fact okay and in the best order and that it is not so worrying, knew about these matters. But he didn't formally and officially hand them over, and we're talking about a billion euros of laundered money. It was just given that whistleblowers gave some information, and then they did, I'd say, when I said how to give it informally. Secretary of State today, you've given this informally. But interestingly, this KPK has stepped down and even written in a resignation statement that they are resigning because some things in this country are not solvable and do not give up and I think they also mentioned the situation in the field of banks. But on the other hand, they were literally hiding the files, the same people. And then you wonder why I use the hard term "pig". But all of this happened in the days of the Pahor government, at the time of the SD government, which did not even have a point of view today. I understand why she didn't have it, because she can't have it because they're guilty of such a mess. And today, the gentleman is running for president of the country without a problem, and he says that what he received in the SOVA report did not understand that it was so alarming or did not seem necessary for him to ask where we were in this area. And that the matter is so much more depraved, let me say that the president of this investigative commission, who, along with the other members, is doing a really hard job, would not even hope for that, would be threatened by a member of the SD. Threat! And the police say she won't react at all. That's your fair justice. And yes, indeed, we have to start with ourselves, only I don't see us starting with ourselves, respected colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps you, Mrs Teja, on behalf of your Group of Members, would be justified to your fellow Member for taking away his mandate. Let's start with ourselves. Did I tell you that you may have justified yourself on behalf of the parliamentary group? You didn't. So don't talk about starting with yourself. Take care of yourself. Get it, get it, get it. Of course not. Today we have heard another abuse, where you want to open up the case again in some way or again some indication that it was not all the same as it was supposed to be. At least let me remind you when the letter of intent was written. At the time of the Robbery Government, Your Honor. Not the government of Janez Janša and this was a political account. The sole political account that one party could then, of course, come to power after the end of that great act of Milan Kučan, when someone imagined it. But I would still understand, you're just a pretty new client, and everything would be fine if you didn't defend these things if you didn't defend the minister who broke the law, the Constitution and so on, then you'd believe that you don't have dirty hands with it. I just can't say it now. But, of course, the SD is here in this case under cover, and until some authorities in this country really get involved and we get to the culprits and the responsible ones, but of course not like now, because they should be the same because they are doing those functions today that should essentially control themselves and from this will not be bread or epilogue as they should be. But until then, we can say that in this area of justice, in the field of persecution and detection, there's going to be a lot of shit going on, and it's going to be until we start cleaning things up. Of course, some apparently do not intend and refuse to do so, so the party then in power is still silent.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich, let Mr. Jan Mahnic prepare himself. Here you go, mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament. I will use the same words as I did two years ago, and I also welcome those who are not present, especially because today's topic is not so unique and the present presence of Members when I look through the National Assembly is sending me to about the same composition of those who were or who were present when we were talking about the 5 billionth hole, the persecution of economic crime, financial crime and so on. Personally, I think that this has somehow also been a message of what some Members think about these matters and we are also in the position that it is most likely that, after 26 years, the time has come for certain things to be spoken in the temple of democracy, especially in the sense that there will be a time for certain changes. Before I go to the debate, I will also allow myself, as on the proposaler's side, to comment a little on those before him. Here I must admit that I strongly support the position that I am a legitimate Member of this National Assembly, which has often been spoken about these legitimate elections and so on, and I have, for the last time, also in this plenary session, with a similar content, explained a little why I am in the position that I am the legitimate Member of this National Assembly. Those words, when they're spoken, I believe well-intentioned, new faces, you know my question is, what about the old faces? I think we could talk about this a lot. However, what I am now heading in a certain direction to the very contents of today's debate, I would like to mention the words spoken, but I hope that I will, at least in essence, point out the President of the Supreme Court, in those days, who was on the parental committees, which he made very clear in his debate, you know, because the court and the judges are deciding on the basis of the law you are adopting in the National Assembly. I remembered that, and I also point out now, because almost three years ago, the same words were highlighted by the well-known state prosecutor, and I will not be doing advertising on names, but I think all those who are here very well know who highlighted it. However, in this regard, I must mention that these competent persons in the field of justice, as well as law enforcement, I miss their activity to eliminate those anomalies in existing existing legislation, whether it is criminal or otherwise, so that the prosecution of perpetrators who have caused one way or another can really be more effective, I say, a 5 billionth hole, I say, economic crime, let alone rebuttal cases, which sometimes go in the direction of a real mockery of the rule of law system. Not to mention, even when I mentioned it a few times, the removal of legal voids. If I somehow move on to today's agenda. I am in the position that the fundamental question for all of us Members of this National Assembly, and in particular the members of the Home Committee, is the Committee on Justice, namely, what is our activity in relation to the decision on individual matters, including the topic of today's agenda item, which is to put in place my own position a or b. And if I am in position A, or if we follow Members of the assessment of their parliamentary groups, decisions that are more or less political to which we belong, and if I am very specific, it means that it is almost on the side of the coalition that we realize that we are not all in some direction as it should be, but we will slowly put an end to this, and at the end of the process we leave almost as bad as it was, the weaknesses will be, some judges will decide so, the independent court and that and the caravan will go on. And here is my question, where is the role of the Member of Parliament? And B, do we somehow put ourselves in the position that we are representatives of citizens, voters, representatives of the legislative branch of government, and we are critical of these so-called so-called, if we can say, deviations in detection procedures, prosecutions as well as in the judicial branches of government, which are bound and must act in accordance with the legislation that has been adopted and which we are also adopting. I must admit that I belong more to this other group, it is said B, because I believe that Members must be critical, especially in certain cases, for which I myself have many times, and even today very clearly, of the milky relationship, especially of the law enforcement authorities and of the judiciary. Unfortunately, most decisions are made to the detriment of taxpayers. And let us not blind ourselves, even at the morning session of the parental committee, I have raised one question, which is not a matter of individual cases, which are now appearing in some way in the debate to individual cases, but, if I am very specific, we have also talked in this National Assembly and the question of will has been raised. And it's not a matter of ten wills, it's a number of thousands, and it's probably just a question of if it's gone. A thousand wills that citizens in faith, good faith, trust in an institution like the court, trust in a storeroom. And look at the fraction, it's not. When there are legacy procedures, it is found that there are no such wills. I'm not going to let go of what that means to individuals, because I think it's painful enough to think about it. We also touched upon a case of responsibility in this National Assembly. The moment we talk about political responsibility, we all know that this National Assembly is now active and we have 4 parliamentary investigative commissions set up. I must admit that I somehow belong to that group of Members and Members, who I am very interested in, and especially the findings of these committees, and I personally, as a new face, am very interested in what political responsibility will be if it ever be. As for material, criminal, compensation liability, here I would not lose words, the matter of the court and today's proposal, which is before us with individual cases, I find this to be somehow a warning of cases that are not in honor of the judiciary, and I see nothing wrong in this. And if I finish this piece somehow, I'm going to repeat what I've already mentioned in the introduction. Finally, after 26 years, we can talk in this National Assembly in the hope that the responsibility is not just a letter on paper written in law or in any sub-law, but that this institution of responsibility can literally be passed on to individuals who have had some influence, power, responsibility and decision in the past. So from this point of view I certainly welcome very well, such activities and perhaps even fewer. But I can't get past the next time we touch responsibility. Or we may wonder how that responsibility may have been felt by those who have been tried for long periods of time, even if they have passed a certain sentence, to prove that the proceedings and convictions have been wronged. And speaking or being in a position, because it is therefore some compensation and in individual cases that a political official, in this case, is also an excuse for the State, I do not think that it is right for us to practically wave it with our left hand, as this is arranged. I think it's a very informative thinking of those who have experienced this, because some satisfaction is not just a matter of money in compensation. So that cases relating to natural persons cannot be compared with certain administrative procedures, inspections and the like, relating to real estate, so I believe that it is necessary to have some particular attention and sensitivity in these procedures. However, I must admit that, as far as the proposal from the proposer is concerned, I am somewhat critical of the content itself. And I will also try to justify it in some way, even though I may continue to be subject to certain criticisms. But you know, when you do, it's also right, given that you have a slightly different view. The proposal before us, which was also on the parental committee, I assess and guides me to some reality, that, if I may not say a little too harshly, a slight form of political accounting with persons who in the past had a function in which they simply decided, conducted certain procedures or had any influence. Why do I allow myself to put this thesis on these materials first? In particular because of this, because if the applicant really had the right, if I could say so, broad, so-called broad purpose, these irregularities, which in some way occur in every society, because we cannot say that there is no such thing here, that it is only with us, I would certainly not only mention in this material the physical persons that I have somehow characterized as before, but would certainly, at least, have expected, also mention cases that were mass and caused not only health consequences to citizens and citizens, but also material ones. And I'm just going to give you a couple of examples that, in less than that long history or a few years ago, happened in front of us. In front of us. If I start with Orion, I'm gonna start with him. It's a matter of the judiciary. Further obstruction and notarized contracts. Typical abuse. That I will not speak, which will certainly be the judicial branch of power very soon to come across a mass one, and I think that all actors are taking sides in one way or another, namely, the disappearances of companies that have yet to have any impact on the ownership of these companies. Furthermore, what I have mentioned is the loss of will, especially the so-called custody of the court. It was not until years ago that we remembered the affair in court involving executive judges and bankruptcy administrators in Ljubljana. All this stuff's going somewhere. And if I give another example, because I hope the total abuse of the Earth Debt Institute. Look, the system's moving on. However, what has particularly encouraged me is one example, although our Member is not present now, when you mentioned in these proposals that you mentioned to me a rather insignificant case concerning her recruitment or the European Commissioner's meeting. From my point of view, it is completely irrelevant to me in this matter, but something else is important to me — that such materials do not expose what is really crucial to taxpayers. Why it was privatized or supported in that period, I apologize for supporting private banks – A Bank, Pro Bank, Factor Banka. Does that mean what? We forget certain things or we don't want to expose them. The result is to write, and I hope I'm not going to make a big mistake, a billion. The consequences are still through DUTB today, where the result of the merger of Pro and the Bank Factor know what this means. So from this point of view, to the extent that there is a real interest, I have really missed out on this material, and even today, I miss those cases through the courts that have truly mass and have consequences on citizens. It is clear that my key issue in these matters is persecution or what I have mentioned by referring to the milk chase and the milky activity of law enforcement authorities, courts, economic crime is particularly financial. And here's where I'd like to say the following. If the law enforcement authorities, not the courts, in this case the law enforcement authorities have a serious intention to make a substantial move or domestically say that they step on the fingers of those who have allowed individuals or interest groups to come to this so-called damage to the state property of 5 billion or more, why they do not make a simple application of the claim, which we know in the institution of the law is the reverse burden of proof. I can't even understand it. Obviously, however, the reasons are completely different to looking for legal voids, not to speak education, training and perhaps the need to change the judiciary and so on. Certain things are now regulated enough to be serious enough to allow those who have cooperated in one way or another to be specifically persecuted. Because I cannot understand that we have a very clear record in criminal law that the signs of a crime are certainly a loss of business documents and an abuse of position. And why do law enforcement authorities torture themselves and prove to the court all such procedures? Let those who do so be tortured and prove that there is no abuse of position. So much for that. Just for the end. I welcome these proposals for discussion, and I hope that by the end of our term of office we can meet again about responsibility and that there will also be some epilogue in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u49	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u50	Yes, very briefly. We don't have credible information on what Mrs. Ljubič said. As I said, all of this is based on specific cases of judgments of the courts or other documents. Let's move on. Now, Vice President Hainz, who went down, it would be nice if you could answer me now if you give him a chance. He says we don't use the word piggy, let's give a more kind expression, but I'm asking for some suggestions on what would be a more kind term. It's human, it's called pork, and it's safe. Now, if there's a better term, it'd be nice. Okay. But it doesn't matter. The debate ahead of me is a debate that a person would somehow like. Also by the coalition members. Look, it's been said, let's draw attention to the real cases. I agree. However, it was said that some other cases should be treated as Orion, such as the Notary Treaty, the removal of economic associations, wills, bankruptcys, land books, bank support, here, those three, economic and financial crime. Just a comment. You know, that's what I don't think is the topic you've listed because you should have discussed in previous mandates. [[…]] We have already discussed these issues in previous mandates, and I think that this is actually a useful proposal for a next discussion if Mr Zorčič does not then say that we have 10 years of experience. You have to deal with this on your own. Besides, I welcome this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u51	Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Franz Breznik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Secretary of State, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me first quote the words spoken at the October or September regular session by a person who is particularly kind to the Islamic Republic of Iran, and this is Mr Darko Stare, State Secretary at the Justice Ministry, when he works, all the debates you have here and who cast a bad light on the law enforcement authorities, at the time he also had in mind the PKK, deepening the mistrust of citizens and citizens in this institution. Perhaps, Mr Stare, he would probably come forward later and feel the same way about this debate, but I cannot agree with this on my own. Nothing casts a bad light on the law enforcement authorities, on the bodies that we are dealing with and on the decisions of these bodies that we are discussing at this meeting and to improve their functioning, we are also proposing conclusions that, unfortunately, you have rejected on the committee or recommendations that we have proposed, their functioning is the one that casts a bad light. To warn you about these cases is not an additional throw of a bad light, but a warning in terms of improving things. The Slovenian Democratic Party has already recalled this whole mandate. Mr Verbič, to whom I myself call the voice of reason within the SMC, and I appreciate it very much, also mentioned Orion's wills. Mr Gorenak said that we have also said this in previous mandates. In this mandate, in particular, when we proposed recommendations concerning the courts and the prosecution, I recall that, in the text we proposed to discuss at the meetings, Orion mentioned so that I did not say that we had a special session and recommendations on the established, deliberate, unintentional, will. What if I go on a case-by-case basis? Yes, Mr Gorenak, as Minister of the Interior, apologized to Mr Robert Fojkar for the 14-year-old upper, from 1999 to 2013. But you know, despite the fact that Robert Fojkar was never found guilty, even more, he was always forgiven, found innocent, but Prosecutor Branka Owen repeatedly filed an action against him, and today the Head of the State Attorney's Office in Nova Gorica, although he was found innocent, was hurt because we know what a crime he was accused of, one of the biggest atrocities that could happen to a young man. But of course, the prosecutor has never been called to account as no judge is called to account, and the citizens have a legitimate lack of confidence in Slovenian justice, in the Slovenian judiciary, not because of the meetings, but because of the words we have Members, when we assess the work of these organs, Mr Darko Stare, but because of decisions and work, or better said, does not work in certain cases of Slovenian justice, which has also improved under your Government and your leadership. Now, today, just recently, Mr. Andrej Magajna was on the balcony, even on the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission, and we were asking and exposing his case when he accused himself of transferring to his computer a picture of an unknown person dressed in pants showing naked breasts, where are the discs that were seized by the police at the time? They're lost. And you won't believe it. Nobody answered. No one apologized to Mr Magajna as Mr Gorenak did in the case of Mr Fojaker, no one apologized to him, but the damage was caused by his name, the damage was caused despite the fact that there are still people who say so, yes, this is this pedophile. Thanks to the Slovenian police, or in the case of Fojakr, thanks to the Slovenian prosecution, it justified that minimal, no excuse, no finance, no compensation for the damage caused to people, especially in such cases of criminal offences. But you don't care, you don't care, you say that warning against such cases is throwing bad lights at justice and that because of that, citizens don't trust justice. Let's move on if Mr Magajna has enough disk to have a lady with her pants on, but we don't have her bra on, but we have a gentleman's case, who obviously had a lady in one of his rooms without her bra and without her pants on, in exchange for making her work somewhere at the Ljubljana Pharmacy, and nothing happens to her. The hearings are simply rejected to give him 300 million euros for his town hall, of course, by the Government of Mira Cerar, probably in exchange for giving him peace in some of the future elections and nothing will happen to him. But what's interesting is why nothing happens to him, because this Mr. Zoran Jankovic in one of the interviews, now I don't know if he was on Croatian or was on Serbian television saying himself when the journalist asks him, but you're not afraid that you'll ever be convicted of ever having to answer for what? He said no, I'm not afraid because I'm against Janez Janša. And being against Janez Janša, ladies and gentlemen, this is the only criterion and only criterion for Slovenian justice that you are untouchable. Once again we had the case, a few days ago, which woke up a lot of dust, unfortunately not in the dominant media, when Crnkovic, I think that Mitja Crnkovic, now if I have the right data employed by the Puconci municipality, his father, his former chief of finance at the Pomurski drugstore, was threatening to kill the parents of my Member's colleague, your fellow Member, Dr. Anžet Logar, today I see another beautiful selfie of him and the current president, Mr. Borut Pahor, who is back in the race for his mandate. Interesting. He quotes his tweet, Mr. Logar, and asks the police what will happen. After a few hours, the police replied that nothing would happen, that he could report anything, but that they would not initiate the procedure. But what's interesting is when someone tweets about whether there's gonna be a protest before the Spanish embassy about Catalonia, and then the police come home and visit this journalist. Mr Stare, I'm asking if I'm throwing a bad light on the police now because I said that in Parliament or the police are throwing a bad light at themselves because that's what they're doing. What do you think? Whether it's my fault that it's a bad situation or that it's low trust in these organs or organs themselves because they do what they do. And once again, nothing happens to the first-class consecrated. Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government during the period 2012-2013, submitted the report on the bank hole to the Attorney-General's Office. What happened? We don't have a person in Slovenia today who would have answered that there was a need for a multibillion-dollar rehabilitation of a bank hole, even though we have commissions that have already investigated it here in Parliament, they are now investigating, despite the fact that former Prime Minister Janez Janša sent it. I ask you what happened, Mr Old, are you there in the judiciary, do you have any information as to how the prosecution dealt with and what happened when the President of the Government sent a report on the bank hole to the Attorney General's Office? What action did this take? I know how it worked, but I want to hear it from your mouth. And it doesn't help you to make any laws. Here it is worth mentioning the Roman historian Tacitus, who said: The more the country is broken, the more many laws are needed. It is no wonder that Slovenia has 20 000 laws and regulations, because it is obviously very corrupt for a certain part of its citizens, of course, and we have also highlighted here which. Now it was obvious that you were exposing politics. Mr Gorenak said it was politics, it was former politicians, it was also those who were not politicians. There's still a lot of these cases. Members receive e-mails daily when citizens and citizens write to us and remind us of the injustices that are happening to them in justice. But nothing improves. You have never adopted one of our recommendations on the state of the Slovenian judiciary in this mandate. And it is obvious that such meetings will still be necessary until the situation improves. However, despite some bright exceptions, as I have pointed out before my colleague Dusan, there is evidence that in Slovenia there are truly first-class citizens, protected by the police, primarily protected by Slovenian justice and second-class citizens, to whom they take the house for a few ten euros. This is one of the louder cases that I don't list everyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u53	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Franz Breznik and Mr Janez Janša. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Minister, other representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. If I look through the prism of today's functioning of the judiciary, I see very clearly that Slovenia is a country where there are two lists. One for ordinary mortals for whom consistent respect for laws is required, if they are infringed, and so the rule of law should also function. Unfortunately, we have another list of people, some of whom have already been mentioned in the debate today, including by our parliamentary group, who are protected, but who are in violation, are in strict violation of Slovenian legislation and their judicial branch of power is looking through their fingers. And that is the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that is the problem of the rule of law, the rule of law of Slovenia. 26 years ago, we didn't want that country. And it is perfectly normal for the Eurobarometer to note that only 16% of Slovenian citizens and citizens trust the judiciary and 84% of the citizens of this country who pay taxes and so on do not trust the judiciary. And that's a big problem. As long as we don't solve this, yes, even here or above all here, in this house, in the laws of the branch of power, we're in bad shape. On the other hand, when it comes to our case, yes, perhaps even international, then we all swear on the rule of law, international law, internal law, European law and I do not know what else. Duplicity. Now, for the record, I'm not going to criticize these governments and these coalitions right now. This was mainly led by the left-centre governments or left-centre coalitions, to this state, even if you want to, to this state of spirit that we have today, to these two lists. And every citizen here knows exactly where he is. Is he on those who respect him trying to respect Slovenian legislation? When it occurs consciously or unconsciously to him that he is in violation of any law, that he is then sanctioned, that he will then serve it, pay a fine or whatever, what I say is right. On the other hand, there are those who repeat violations. Not only do they commit violations once, they repeat violations, and they miss out on their sin. I read several columns of a very well-known Slovenian professor of European law at the Faculty of State and European Studies. He is very critical of the Slovenian judiciary. And what I'm about to continue is more or less his thoughts. Now, why do I keep going? Because unfortunately I have to agree with them and they're very hard. He says the judges fell on their heads, literally. Right there in Portorož, you know why Portorož is bragging about a judge. We know why a judge can be proud. Because she sewed someone up, but she passed the law. And I'm sorry that we're talking about cases, because some of you are telling us that we've listed a few examples here in this paper. Yeah, how am I supposed to do that? How am I supposed to do that? We can't just talk in general. You say sometimes, say the case, say the numbers and so on. And the cases are here, in the works. And not far from Portorož, again another branch of the judiciary is an alleged blacksmith. And what happened to my cousin, Daret Küzmich. I don't criticize these governments. This country threw him on the road, brutally threw him on the road. This scene was worse than you usually don't toss animals on the road. At least you take care of the food and so on. He's homeless today. He's walking around in parliamentary groups asking for help. And he wasn't the owner, but he got thrown out. The former minister of the former government, the Minister of Infrastructure, promised to help him. Many here, including among us, have promised to help him. He's homeless all of a sudden. They broke his house, or he didn't own it, but he maintained a house in Bohinj for 30 years, hosted politicians from the left political hemisphere, now no one knows him, so at least someone would throw a coin into his hat. Let's move on. Once again, the second judge in peace excludes his wife from the trial proceedings, which he represents in court while acting as the general secretary of the Government, all Slovenian judges. It excludes all Slovenian judges. Once again, the third is given a term of office, although it goes to foreign lucrative, read profitable, transactions. The fourth one belongs to his direct colleague, in a position to be evicted. Fifth wave with the Yugoslav flag. Six matches of current policy supporters with North Koreans. The President of the Supreme Court once personally violated the constitutional right to an impartial trial. His successor has no legitimacy because of the conduct of a paper body called the Council of Justice. And all of this is happening in rooms that, after the equipment, correspond to the wood industry of Lithium from the 1980s. They stop constitutional judges at the door, and the Vice-President of the Supreme Court agrees to live with a colleague in different worlds, even though they work in the same court. And of course, the result, I repeat, after the results of the euro barometer, is that only 16% of Slovenians trust the judiciary. It's the European bottom. It's the European bottom. What are we gonna do? I would like to believe and greatly appreciate my colleague Verbic, and I would like to believe and give it together if it is even possible to do anything by the end of the term of office. This debate is useful. We have to come with solutions. As the opposition, we have made quite a suggestion, this right block of opposition, if I may say or propose this meeting today and these recommendations for which I do not understand, I do not understand why you have rejected them on the committee. What is so problematic about asking, recommending to the government to make a report to do some analysis to prepare solutions? Yes, there is something blasphemous here in these reports. I really don't understand. I really don't understand. I'd be kind of calmed down if, say, those recommendations were rejected, rejected and made with my recommendations. But it's not like that in ten seconds you just make a deal and you say yes, of course we're going to reject it. There's something else we're missing in this country. All 26 years and even in the judicial branch of power, personal responsibility. Obviously, we haven't taken this lesson in this country yet. Personal responsibility. Responsibility has a name and a surname. We still live in a world from the past when collective responsibility was under way. No, no collective responsibility! It's personal, with a name and surname. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that there must be a person who assumes a high function of a person who has some moral integrity, then there is probably no doubt. In countries with advanced democracy, this is completely self-evident and faster, when a suspicion arises, I stress that only suspicion of certain irregularities, only irregularities, not illegality, which such an official would have committed, follows an immediate withdrawal from this function. Until we take this lesson, until then it won't be good in this country, because the other part or if you want the first part of the list bigger, it won't feel good. Interestingly, when we were at the end of 2012, we were in the government and we were at the top of the economy in Brdo pri Kranj, about 500 directors and so on, most of our ministers, a large part of the Members and the Slovenian economy then ahead of us, placed 4 demands before the executive and legislative branch of the government. I have to admit, I forgot second, third and fourth, but I remembered my first request. And what was that request, how did it sound? It reads: the rule of law. That's what the economy asked of us at the time. We're five years late today. Whenever it is with representatives of the economy, with chambers representing the organisation of the economy, I talk, they always repeat, we have done nothing in this area in five years. It's a state of law. Interestingly, one would expect then, in 2012, the release of credits for investments and so on or expect the economy to say, please, lower taxes. He put the rule of law first. In fact, this is increasingly understood by the rule of law, in terms of the protection of an investor, whether domestic or foreign, both must be treated equally in this country, both of them must be domestic and foreign investors on one list and only on one. Not one on one, one on the other. I am very sorry, and today will be despite the fact that some of us have been to a meeting and we have finally been pleased to leave the room, and with the agreement reached on the conclusions, this meeting of the National Assembly will be saddened by this day and also by the next days. I cannot understand why there is not enough will, so much political will to make these recommendations, but if not the evil one proposed by the coalition, it is only accepted. Now everything seems to be fine in the justice system. We have proposed a law to make a special court dealing with “bankmasters”, which we all understand now, with banking crime. Also in the field of prosecution. In the first reading I was very happy, the marriage went on, then on the mother's working body for the hair, one voice ran out, or one against it was too. But there's still time. We will vote in October on the decision or two conclusions, on our two proposals for laws that the law is not suitable for further consideration and I hope that these decisions will not be adopted. There's still time. This debate should also give us the idea that we should motivate us to do something in the field of legislation, because it is our job to improve the judicial branch of government, to remove two lists, to have only one list. The one where we'll all be citizens. In other words, the law will be responsible for everything. And now we have dedicated, those who have a lot of money and can buy, with their right, in gimmicks. And that's not right. As long as this is the case, Slovenia will not be a rule of law. And the Eurobarometer and other barometers will continue to measure the low confidence of citizens and citizens of this country in the judiciary. Here I must say that I am ashamed when we are in the field of the judiciary or more precisely about confidence in the judiciary at the European bottom, we are at the European bottom. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u55	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Prepare Mr Janez Janša and Mr Saša Tabaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Respected and respected Slovenian public, citizens and citizens. The purpose of my debate today is to talk mainly about the immune system of Slovenian society. The immune system, when it falls into each individual, we usually know that we have been affected by a disease when this immune system is permanently damaged by more in-depth diseases, and we sometimes say autoimmune, chronic diseases and the matter passes into chronic form. When we talk about the immune system of a society, therefore, we always say that all three branches of power, both legislative and executive, must follow. Within the judiciary, when we talk most about daily procedures, we are talking about the principles of this procedure. We are talking most often about the principle of “deep pro reo”, that is, doubting the interests of the accused, we are talking about principles where we are talking about the equality of weapons and, of course, we are also talking about the impartiality of the courts, judges and prosecutors. Most famously, a document concerning the impartiality of judges and prosecutors is an opinion and, of course, a declaration that speaks for the name of the Bordeaux Declaration. We can say that this is a document from 2009, which in its 76th articles and the issues of the impartiality of judges and prosecutors as strong as Martin Luther King's strong thesis when he literally nailed his thesis to the door of one of the Catholic churches. Of course, they are talking about, of course, appearance, bias, and the impartiality of judges and prosecutors, it is also about the advisory council of the European Prosecutors, which was, of course, addressed to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe at that time. When we are talking about the immune system, we are also talking about judges, we are talking about the functioning, the failure of judges in Slovenian modern society during the time of the Slovenian State. At that time, the father of Slovenian statehood, Dr. Jože Pučnik, drafted an amendment that was most likely the most famous amendment and amendment, which was most frequently violated in Slovenian modern society, was an amendment to the 101st Article of the Law on Judicial Service, which prohibited work, that is, the coming of those judges who severely violated human rights, i.e. to the Slovenian courts, to the courts of the newly emerging Slovenian state. Those cases that you are talking about today, which you spoke about by your distinguished colleagues and colleagues, speak about this and the issue of the functioning of these judges, how they came through Article 101 of the Law on Judicial Service, how they could have avoided the amendments to this article, and how they could have come to the courts of Slovenia's newly-increasing countries. Everything does not start with the functioning of the judicial system on the normal arrival of these judges, when I am on several occasions, i.e. when I am in Germany, Austria, when we are talking about these matters, so they often throw me as an example, i.e. the former totalitarian German democratic, i.e. the eastern German states where I am told the already known facts that you know. No judge was more than 50 years old and worked in the NDR was no longer a judge, all the younger judges went under the special supervision of Western German judges, no professor at the law school in East Germany kept this service. All were removed, either retired or in any way transferred to other services. Today, former Stasi members cannot be in Germany or presidents of any sports society, any way that they may still be in politics, in the National Assembly, in the Government or, we can say, run certain companies owned by the state. All of this happened in the failed transition of the Slovenian state. One part of the failed transition is also the failed transition of the Slovenian judicial system. It starts with both or at least one law school, where today it symbolically has its own cabinet and symbolically comes Dr. Ljubo Bavcon, the famous author of Slovenian law, can be said, criminal, totalitarian criminal law and still retains this person today, has the status of alpha and omega criminal law in the Republic of Slovenia. It begins, as you mentioned today, not Patrick's problem as such. The problem for Patri, as such, is that the trial was initiated, i.e. the wife of a former member of the State Security Service, who somehow began, i.e. who filed an indictment, not an indictment, because the prosecution, as you know, must also stop the so-called measurement before the District Court, or there is a case that this defendant can or will not stand. That is why the indictment in the District Court is so easy to get through and so much can be done through the so-called reduced criminal procedure. The second case is unknown to the public, i.e. international young lawyers from top law schools in the world. I will not repeat the word of Dr. Klemen Jaklič, the current constitutional court, but I will repeat the words forever and ever, Dr. Vlad Perju, a regular professor at Boston College. When he spoke about the Bordeaux Declaration, he also compared Parrio with some violations, at least they are important violations, because they are also important for further procedures, particularly in relation to Article 36 of the Bordeaux Declaration, when it comes to the appearance of bias, I will mention it, perhaps someone will be found. Article 36 of the Bordeaux Declaration, state prosecutors and judges must act and act in such a way that there is no doubt about their objectivity, impartiality. In carrying out their duties, judges and state prosecutors must be independent of each other and must maintain the appearance of impartiality. In this case, Vlad Peru also spoke about the 40th Article of the Bordeaux Declaration. 40. Article 40 of the Bordeaux Declaration speaks, judges and prosecutors must refrain from any conduct or conduct that could undermine confidence in their independence and impartiality. The matters before them must be examined in due and reasonable time and objectively impartially. He then referred to Article 53 in this legal opinion. This power of attorney means modernising socialisation. He then spoke of Article 69, which seemed very important to me. In a democratic society, it is very important that the courts in public raise confidence; the public is one of the basic ways of maintaining confidence in the courts. So colleague Horvat spoke earlier, so maintaining confidence in the public. As you know, most cases come to the press, even before they even get it hot, those in any process. So it is also a story, including one, we can say, holding some journalists, so-called independent Slovenian journalism, and certain judges and prosecutors in some cases. Another such example, which seems extremely important to me, is an example of our Styria icon by Mr Franz Kangler. It is not only about what has been breached, but it seems important to me to point out that even in his case, even Dr. Cyril Ribičič, this is your lawyer or the supreme constitutional lawyer whom you yourself have invited in this mandate to the so-called independent group of legal experts, who has prepared an opinion on Mr Janša for taking away his mandate. Now, if you don't believe the Slovenian Democratic Party, if you don't believe the opposition, that is, your colleagues in Novi Slovenija, then you also believe in Mr Ribičič. Mr Ribičič quoted a number of rebuttal cases, talking about the systemic problem of the Slovenian judicial system. It began with the first ECHR decision concerning Reebok, where it refers to police violence. Then we are talking about the Mother case, we are talking about the Lukend case, we are talking about the miners, Mr Lukenda, where even in the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights, a sentence has been written that everyone who comes before Slovenian courts is very likely to be violated by human rights and fundamental freedoms. So we're talking about a systemic problem. And the only government that we had in our entirety, Mr Janša, also ran the project after Lukend. As you know, he had three points on how to pull this project off. Firstly, we hired additional judges, we gave them a material basis, that is, a space and a third matter, as also spoke by foreign legal experts, motivational measures, so that they also have a variable part of the pay for judges. Whether this is taken into account today whether judges and prosecutors who have committed mass violations of human rights have what we give you in our recommendations or therefore have lower wages or have lower wages. We speak or have prepared tools to improve the work of Slovenian courts. The second question is how to bring the appearance of Slovenian courts, the appearance of impartiality, the appearance of respect for the Bordeaux Declaration, to a second level. So, Mr Ciril Ribičič, in whom you most likely believe, wrote, in the case of Mr Kangler, we can say, amazingly below, on page 12, he wrote, for example, the case of Mr Kangler is mostly special methods and means, so that the judge signs, so we speak for hearings, signed by the judge of the court in Maribor, Mr Žirovnik, so from the district court, and for him Mr Ciril Ribičič wrote the following opinion. The transition of someone from a function in the intelligence agency to a judge is in itself highly problematic and sensitive. The operation of the Owl is a secret operation, a problematic way of collecting information, is unacceptable for judicial proceedings, the use of covert interventions in the privacy of individuals and so on. On the basis of Director Owl's orders and so on. So he found that it was a grave and conscious violation of Frank Kangler's right to an independent and impartial judge, without whom we can't even talk about a fair trial, let alone a fair trial. To continue to say, I have told Mr Žirovnik several times, there was a member of the State Security Service, how this man, as a judge of the District Court, could have come past the 101st section of the Judicial Service Act, how he could have become a judge in Slovenian courts. And later, of course, Assistant Director Owl. Like an ex-con, by the way. Is that possible?Oh, my God! And why does this immune system we're talking about today not work against such individuals? In the case of Mr Janša, you have had everything that means at the international level, as far as legal professionals are concerned, you know all the opinions that have been and all these opinions are confirmed, even Mr Janša did not have an impartial trial and was a typical violation of Article 6 of the Convention of the European Court of Human Rights. And also the statistics we repeat most frequently, 148 violations per million inhabitants and so on, today we have about 340 cases in the European Court of Human Rights. You think that this immune system works normally, you think that this doctrine works normally, you think that in Slovenia we have impartial and independent judges, we have them, some are impartial and independent, and for those we also call such meetings, so that they get, we can say, more courage in their work and that in every normal society, those who work poorly are punished in order to clear the systems and subsystems of this country that destroy the immune system of Slovenian modern society. This is what we are talking about today, and we are talking again about the systemic problem. We are talking about the judges we would like, the judges who would like to have dry texts, the abstract texts that we are preparing here in the National Assembly, into that beauty of spirit, in the text of a judicial judge. All that legal theorists later enjoy and also students of law schools around the world somehow repeat, read, and learn from such judicatures how they act in certain cases and how they do not act. And the case of Mr Janša, the case of Patrio is also being considered today in law school, as an example of how the judiciary cannot act, what looks like, literally a biased judicial system in Slovenia. And all of these cases, total criminal policy, if we look at it, it all went into some right-wing population, nothing to the left. Do you think that's normal? Do you think this balance, system of brakes and balances in Slovenian society works? This was also discussed by the Constitutional Court, even in one of the cases of Patrie. It doesn't work, and when something doesn't work, the system fills up. And that's the problem, that's what we're talking about today. And even in the case of Mr Kangler, the following case, the judge of the Code, who has dealt with one of his complaints, will write an incredible text, which, most likely, would fall to the European Court of Human Rights. It is already that Mr Kangler is this and that, but we are very likely to return to politics. This is the statement of Judge Dr. Pozek in Maribor. Do you think this is about the appearance of the impartiality of a judge? And, of course, it was a case of the removal of the mandate of the state councilor, the irreparable consequences, the irreparable consequences, the irreparable consequences of one individual. In the case of Patria, however, it was the irreparable consequences of Slovenian society, because after 2008 the left government took place, we were owed a little more than 20% of the gross social product and then we could say that our debt of debt grew exponentially. We went literally not into protocyclical measures, but directly into cyclical measures. And a completely change can also be said to be the financial policy of a left-wing government. And in that case, there should be a serious right-wing government. And these are the consequences, the long-term consequences for Slovenian society, namely the failure of the judicial system, the irreparable immune system and as Jože Pučnik said, and everything we never expected came back. And then we get the renaissance, literally, of some Yugoslavia. And the problem of all of what I have listed today, the problem of echo cases, the problem of what my colleagues have been saying today, the fact that in my office, and I also think that there are people coming to my colleagues because of the inaction of Slovenian courts. These are the key problems, the key problems people have. And we are not just talking about politics, we are talking about citizens and citizens. And look at the last case, when he concluded that this doctrine has not yet been eradicated, shows the last case, here we have a representative of the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of Interior and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, an example of the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. But you have seen in which country that someone is expanding police powers, and the Ministry of Justice is preparing a law, and the minister says she does not want such powers, which the minister is likely to respect, as a young lawyer, to know what human rights violations we can detect in the future with regard to such a law. And the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State are just insisting on it. Most legal professionals in the field of criminal law are, of course, given to ministers and do not exactly give them a topic. And you can see that it's not eradicated, it's still a threat, it's still bigger. This is what we're talking about, we're talking about, we need to talk about this over and over again, because as soon as he gets here, it's up to me, it's up to my colleagues, it's up to my neighbors, and it's up to us all. And in such a judicial system as Maslow said, the hierarchy of human needs, the first are physiological needs, and the second most important need is the need for security. And today I conclude with this, we need the need for legal certainty in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u57	Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Prepare Mr Saša Tabakovic and Dr Jasna Murgel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u58	Now these individual cases, which are listed in this paper, which was submitted for the session, are unfortunately not excesses. This is the result of a system that usually generates such results by definition. I remember one day a long time ago, in the summer of 1988, after a week in a female military detention on Metelkov, I somehow forced myself into it because they wouldn't allow a lawyer, criminal law. I do not recall whether this was the criminal law of the then SFRJ or the SRS, but in the introduction of this law, with some of the phrases of the initiator also wrote that criminal law and generally a repressive apparatus in the country is a means of destroying the internal enemy. The initiator who was signed was Dr. Ljubo Bavcon. The person who was still today, or at least until recently, was a deserving professor of the Ljubljana Faculty of Law, Professor Emeritus, a man who has long been taking the staff of the judiciary, the prosecution, the police, the man who wrote in the case of Patrie that they are ethical [[?]] The judgment of something perfectly normal, it seems enough that someone may already be judged by something and by a person who is actually the number of one judicial or repressive system that Slovenia has today. He wrote penal legislation, manuals and more, even in the time of independent Slovenia, without ever being blocked from his work during the totalitarian regime, which caused thousands of people to suffer, to tens of thousands of people in the then society. So what we have today is not individual excesses that happen everywhere, but this is the result of a system that has never been reformed. Now, in recent years, some notion of a circular economy has come into play. And whatever medium you open, they report what the government does, it's all a circular economy. Now let us also use this concept for these cases that we are speaking today. Now this circulation of some elites, I'm going to say Mafia elites that allow this abuse of judicial and repressive bodies for political purposes and is comprehensive. Now many examples are listed, either in the material or have been mentioned so far, and many others. Like the head of an investigation at the National Research Office, he also worked part-time for a company run by his brother, which, of course, was a detective agency. Internal Affairs has discovered a type of crime here. No charges. No criminal charges. Not only did they let the man calmly leave you to let the man go without all this, without an answer, without answering his job, but the owners of this circular economy "got him" a richly paid job in Mercator. Another such head of investigation at the NPU, internal investigation, man copied the entire NPU server and then carried this data to the POP TV, “prostitution” on national television, for a few months things “rolled” again, no results, except that this man’s owners of the circular economy “gathered” a well-paid job at the state company Eles. If we look at where some deserving police officials from this part of the circular economy are, we find them as advisers with fabulous salaries in the insurance company Triglav, Gorenje, Telekom and virtually all other major state companies in Slovenia. You find someone from this circular economy all over the place. Until they're fully discredited, of course, they're circulating inside the system. They're police officers, then they're prosecutors, then they're a little bit of a judge, and someone's going in a little bit more of an Owl and it's about the circle. Now one of the prosecutors who, in the past, has been extremely discredited by Mr Fojaker's persecution and should not only lose her job but rather answer and land in prison for bullying anyone who has read anything from this case can only be appalled. No, Mrs. Branka Owen is the head of the prosecution in Nova Gorica today. It was rewarded for ruining one person’s life and possibly many others. But this case has been proven and is well known. We have recently unanimously adopted here the report of the Anget Commission on the Justice Partly Report on Money Laundering for Iran. [[…]] A billion Euros washed. At that time, we made it clear that we are expecting some resignations the next day, otherwise we do not believe, nor do you on the government side, that you have voted with sincere intentions for that report. Because if people and now we see that this is the case, people who were directly involved in money laundering, in concealing this act, and in justifying it, then they all remained in office. Mr Furlan, who should be investigating this at the time, is not, and is now the head of the special prosecutor's group to investigate this case. A billion Euros of money laundered seven, eight years ago, no house investigation, no charges, no indictment, no indictment, no judgment, no court investigation, nothing happens. All the evidence you want. Known days, known accounts, known laws, violations, domestic and international legislation, nothing happens. Now those who had nothing to do with it, and now you are responsible for the investigation and there are no excuses, you will be asked practically every week what is going on. And if nothing's going to happen, look, no one's going to be around us, no one's going to believe that someone for not doing anything is getting something. The matter has come to the agenda of the Committee of the European Parliament, the European Investigative Institutions, so that there will be no concealment here. Now, colleague Mahnic mentioned the bank hole report earlier. With severe pain, Banka Slovenije issued this report in 2012, said more than 5 years ago. It went to the D.A., the police, everyone. In five years, none of the major cases that are clearly understood, which can be clearly understood in this report, received any epilogue. This isn't about, I don't know, two million euros and so on, it's about hundreds of millions! Because the bank hole was mainly made from large sums, not small ones. None of that. All of them, processing at the Factor Bank, and things are a little bit funny there. Now, the magazine Mladina recently called about money laundering at the New Maribor Credit Bank for some, it is said, Italian bond, 2 million. [[Incomprehensible]] Now, Youth magazine could quietly write more specifically about money laundering for Youth. Because Nova Credit Bank Maribor has or had a subsidiary Adria Bank in Vienna, 100 % owned, I think New Credit Bank Maribor. The Director of Adrie Bank in Vienna was Mr Yuri Doticek, who was also heard before this commission and remembered very little. Adria Bank in Vienna, whose director was Yuri Doticek, approved I think that 4 million euros and a few other loans KB 1909, which is the owner of Youth and because the President of the Supervisory Board was at the time what do you say, who? Yuri Doticek. He gave himself $4 million and they never returned it. They were used by the Youth to cover the headlines and they're still using them because they're writing about money laundering in NKBM for Italy. They probably washed for Italy, but they also laundered for the Youth and that's bigger than the ones they wrote about. Not to mention that, as the Jelkina Commission has pointed out, millions of money, millions of euros of money from overpaid stents and other medical devices have gone to the same owner. No investigations, no charges, no charges, despite the fact that they know all this and all that. It's not about being individual excesses, it's about a system that works that way. And in fact, it's a normal result, in fact, it's an exception, not a rule. Before being a member of the SMC, I think Mr Zorčič is writing, talking about how in the case of the Party they were judging by law and how there was nothing wrong with it, how some people were convinced it was a scandal because the matter was outdated and something that was a scandal because the judgments were overturned. First, the Constitutional Court found that in this case they were not tried by law, so do not lie [[?]] . Secondly, if the standards in the Patrio case are adopted, these standards in the case of Mr Zorčič are useful as follows: I accuse Mr Zorčič of being bribed, bribed, just with the case of Patria. If it were not for the case of Patria, he would not be a Member, he has direct material benefits from this. He probably got more from the local environment. Where? In an unknown place. When? I don't know what day it is. In what way? In an unknown communication way. I expect the State Prosecutor's Office against Mr Zorčič to make at least an indictment, if not an indictment. For this indictment, we will provide substantially more evidence than there was in the case of Patricia against me because there was no evidence there. Not even motive. If, by chance, after 10 years of justification, Mr Zorčič is not going to be convicted and the matter is going to get old, some people will think that the scandal is that the matter is outdated and some people think it is a scandal because it has not been convicted. However, in any case, Mr Zorčič will be able to claim compensation. So I expect the prosecution to table an indictment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u59	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Dr Jasna Murgel and Dr Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings for me, too. Whenever we define ourselves by political debate to the work of the second branch of government, which, of course, is independent of politics under the Constitution, we need to be careful. Careful because, by exposing certain cases, they are always, whether they want to or not, understood as being able to as well as as political pressure on law enforcement and sanctioning authorities or, of course, as certain types of political rehabilitation of individual party colleagues, champions and so on. Regardless of the fact that we have obtained a list of various judgments in the material and that it is not clear from the material that these individuals have agreed to discuss these names in this way today, we cannot, of course, pretend that this list was created by chance or by lot. I guess the proponent didn't draw the case, but he probably had some clues as to why these are the cases. Therefore, even if I may say so, there is, or at least I have, such that, in the three years since I have been in the National Assembly, I have learned that at any time the SDS Group has prepared a proposal and asks some questions why this probably has its own dues. However, what I agree with the proposaler is that it is right that the National Assembly treats deviations responsibly and objectively, if I may say so within the judicial system, that it should be in the court area, that it should be in the field of, I don't know, the police, the prosecutions and so on, that, of course, it must deal with this with a certain degree of discretion and, above all, objectively, through the prism of the legislation in force. Why do I speak through the prism of existing legislation? Because we have actually listened to the SDS colleagues as well as to the proposaler, who is actually trying to trace some idea that within the justice system is always only a human factor. However, it seems important to me that, above all, as a legislative branch of government, we ask ourselves what is actually going on with the legislation, to say that there is a certain rejection, if we can call them that at all. Perhaps Mr Gorenak, or Dr Gorenak, does not remember his statement when he was Minister of the Interior, but the statement was presented on the SIOL website on 31 March 2013, where he said in the case of Robert Fojakr: "The State is obliged to correct the injustice". Can we read to the court that it didn't work legally? No, no, no. Can we read to the D.A. that it didn't work legally? No, everything was in accordance with the law, but the state by legal means destroyed 11 years of human life. As a matter of fact, when I speak of the validity of legislation with such a dictatorship, I also agree, partly because I do not want everyone within the justice system to object exclusively to a human factor. And that is why I have also decided to define myself to the Vaskrsić case, which is also, in fact, somehow exposed to the text of the meeting. We are talking, of course, about the case that has experienced the final epilogue in the European Court of Human Rights. However, it seems to me that this case is very accurate to draw a picture of our system, to be on the side of the legislation, then to the judiciary or law enforcement authorities, and, of course, to the public. When, in fact, when the case came somehow with the media, I exploited myself through the media and, when I listened to actually different debates, I also read various articles on this subject, which, of course, are some, let's say more precisely in most cases very superficially addressed this case. In fact, I was very quickly able to see that, in fact, in all the levels of our social life, to the unsurprising possibilities, the devastating mentality of distrust of the judiciary and the lack of respect for judicial practice was shattered. Of course, what they took care of, not only of this case of Vaskrisić, but also of course of other reputable cases, unless all the commentators who were called at the time, in fact, to comment on a case that was, in fact, partly concluded before a court, did not have a factual view either of the files or of the trial itself. So when we are also talking about the judiciary, of course, we also need to draw attention to the banalisation of court cases where we are dealing with different comparisons, articles, comments in the media and, even if we are not going to stop such banalisation as ourselves, of course, it seems to me that, as a society, we certainly do not write well. Above all, I found this idea very interesting, which has also become public, this kind of thought that some Members have used in their debates. In fact, the idea that in every society, every society, every community, is ruled by certain elites, no matter what society it is, which somehow, according to other citizens, always has certain benefits and that in fact, society is always threatened by decay or decay, somehow always from above. We also have some parties to the call, in this reference to the National Assembly, which in fact “belongs” to their political libido on this basis, so always want some from above. Of course, such explanations, or such thinking, are somehow logical or justifiable, because of individuals who have wrongly harmed the state and people for the vast sum of money, which, of course, have affected the basic dignity of many workers and, of course, other citizens, who are still in the state budget, are still mutilating these holes or improper jobs. In doing so, of course, those individuals, because of, we can also say a certain part of the legislation, play the system and, of course, laugh in a mustache to all of us, how easily it is, how easily they can easily lower the level of some common legal and social consciousness. And here, I would still care about the current CAP, which has ended up in the State Council, and I hope, of course, that it will not be voted again in the National Assembly, that various passions will calm down, and that there will be some reasonable solutions that will at least one day see the light of day, that we will not excuse some individuals even in a way that, because I have spoken to us today, also because of the legislation they laugh at the mustache. Of course, on the other hand, in these more resilient cases, there are also different citizens who, because of economic and social distress, who do not feel part of the so-called tabulated communities or elites, are, in fact, understood by the public and also by politics as someone who does not allow the system to live in accordance with our legal order. Moreover, today we have also heard debates on this subject, which increasingly justify little irregularities, little legal irregularities of citizens in order to be unfair in any way to sanction them, and why, on the other hand, if we look at so-called, so-called, large fish that are still walking around the city. And instead of encouraging, as a political body, to promote the idea that the rule of law must apply regardless of what the social status of an individual is, it is still, on the basis of what has been said, spreading or highlighting some divisions between the so-called first and other citizens, and this is certainly not right. I'm sure that's not right. When we talk about the Vaskrsić case, I would say, because it has already been mentioned, also addressed by the Ombudsman, and the report was also on this subject of the Supreme Court, even in the light of the legislation in force, I would personally say that a person who does not want to actively exercise his rights when he simply ignores calls for enforcement, although although he has the means to pay off his debts, that, of course, I speak personally about my eyes, cannot create a feeling of mercy, because if a person, given the possibility of paying the debt, does not have the moral sense to somehow take care of and verify what his rights and duties are, it seems to me that he is also unable to earn some moral support from the public. In fact, if we give him this support, or if we give him that support, of course, he would also agree with the same mistake that we usually read to so - called elites, meaning that we are sending some signal that inappropriate conduct is appropriate. On the contrary, because I do not wish to be misunderstood, it is also possible for individuals who do not have the option to pay the debt, because of the legislation in force, to end their fate is the same as that of someone who has actually tried to win the system. In this case, the Ombudsman even warned that debtors in most cases, in particular when the enforcement procedure proposes enforcement of property of existential importance to them not only for them but also for their family, that, in fact, these individuals seek appropriate legal assistance only when it is no longer effective. Some individuals are also completely lost in these systems, they are not found, etc., but what I personally saw before I entered, when I took office in the National Assembly, which, in the case of Vaskrissić, as a citizen, I followed this case through the media, was that, in fact, whatever the character or personal characteristics of the individual, what his personal circumstances are, that no one actually shaved on what was then decided by the European Court of Human Rights, that the simple law was not good and that the court acted in accordance with the law, but that the law itself was disproportionate in this respect. In fact, this is what I wanted to say in this case, that when we are critically referring to the justice system, we must always have a broader picture and, above all, the context and that, of course, we cannot refer cases just like that or superficially. I must say that, in fact, I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice has prepared a revision of the legislation that will make these enforcement complications, if I may say so, an end and actually commit abuses, under the slogans that are taking place within some kind of complication. I am talking about abuse in this sense, because usually the creditor and the debtor who gets involved in such a dispute usually, when this dispute ends before a court, somehow leave the dispute scratched, torn off, while third parties accompanying their plots, whether they are lawyers or, say, enforcers and so on, of course, have great benefits from such a complication. This is also some legal-moral plane on which I think it is necessary to be careful and that we as a community have not yet set a point, but we should. In view of the fact that, in fact, the Vaskrsić case, yes, today, by a decision of the European Court of Human Rights, shows only that, as we say, when criticising the legal system or understanding the rule of law, it is judicial practice that, and so on, it is always necessary to have a broader context, a broader picture and that, of course, we must all advocate that this context is as transparent as possible. When we had a committee, a parent working body, my colleague Zorčič said that he would also like to have judges, in fact, when a judgment is concluded, that the judiciary would also give some clear signals or some clear explanation of the media, why it has decided as it is. I think that this could be much more helpful to some legal culture and also, at the final stage, to some understanding of judicial practice and, of course, also to the perception of the public that they would not be, or that the public would not always refer only to certain specific articles. So I think that when we talk about deviations within the legal system, we always need to look at the context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u61	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, representative of the proposer, please. Let me ask you something. Mr. Beznik, you wanted a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u62	Time's running out.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u63	Okay. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u64	Oh, sorry, I didn't see. Look, you need to react right away, because then the story gets lost. On 31 March 2013, I was not Minister, so I could not make such statements. But if the date before you is January 31st, it can be accurate, not March 31st. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, it doesn't matter. Look, you have nothing to say to the court in Robert Fojaker's case. That was then a fact and is still a fact today that the court actually corrected the mistakes of the prosecution. Even to the prosecution at the time of his work it's hard and you can't read anything because the prosecutor will always tell you, I'm chasing crime, you're a politician, be quiet. And in a way, the D.A. is right. But when the court wrote down Fojakr's case, I take the words, like this, the prosecutor complains unjustifiably, the prosecutor has no evidence, the end. Only then did the situation arise when this lady had to answer and the compensation paid to Fojkar would Germany, Austria and Italy recover from the prosecutor. That's about the story of that thing you were talking about back there. As far as Vassarsic is concerned, look, you can't refer to, I don't know, inappropriate legislation. Boštjan M. Zupančič was then the judge of the ECHR, at the time he wrote, the judge must apply the law, as well as the farmers of the brain, the wrong farmer must use it, and as the ECHR judge said at the time, it is not possible to sell the house for 124 euros. But watch out, there's one more problem. Despite the fact that the ECHR has already decided on this matter, you have a repetition of the same story 10, 14 days ago in New City. €350 is sold or auctioned for an apartment worth €70,000. So, the Vassarsic system didn't do anything, just to make things right. That's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u65	The word has a goose. [[…]] We continue with Dr. Clearly Murgel, to prepare Dr. Dragan Matić and Mr. Jože Tanko. Dr. Murgel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, I must say that I agree that the proposals for these decisions proposed by the proposer have been rejected by the Committee on Justice. Why? Because I think that this methodology, which has been chosen by the proponents by these references to these specific cases, is somehow wrong, because, of course, we simply have a very large number of cases before the police, the prosecution, and these are just some of them on which we cannot base some final conclusions. Of course, the first is that the cases are presented just as they are presented in the media, some have experienced a judicial epilogue, some still have all the remedies available, and I think there may be little dispute that now someone who will be applying, if we are talking about this Patria, who will be claiming compensation for this dispute, and now as a Member is talking about this particular case in Parliament, but good. You'll be able to prove everything in court, get compensation, 15 million all together. Look, if this is a legitimate request, the court will decide that, it's a legal remedy, and in short, I don't see what the legal system wouldn't do here. However, some of these cases are the visions of the applicants in the description of the cases themselves, which are just their vision. Of course, how many of these cases are handled by the police, the court, the prosecutor's office, are not mentioned here because it wishes to point out certain cases with a specific purpose. Therefore, if we go in line, of course, the first decision is impossible to support, because it is required for the first time that the Government gives an examination, I do not know from when, since 1991 or back, probably since 1991, of all cases, given that the abuse of organs of detection and prosecution and the judicial branch of power is now not known, but only what the epilogue has received in court or not, or how, it is not clear here what the Government should actually prepare. In view of the fact that we are dealing with justice all the time, we are mostly dealing with justice here, and in the numbers that colleague Joseph Horvat has also requested, he is presented. [[…]] The Court's performance is reviewed in the Court's report on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Courts in its annual report and, lastly, in its 2016 report. Here are the numbers. As one of the signatories to the proposal that we are considering today, my colleague Horvat indicated that he would like numbers. Here's a whole bunch of numbers in this annual report on the functioning of the courts. And the findings in this report, which we have also been talking about today, because, by chance, today we have considered this annual report on the Committee on Justice, among other things, that, of course, the situation in the field of justice is not ideal, nobody claims it, but that the situation is improving. Among other things, the timing of the cases is being reduced, and the Court's representative has also stated what is important for a general picture of the court's operation that on average only 15% of the complaints against the court's decisions are made. So we have a certain number of court decisions and only against 15% of these judgments are the parties complaining. This is also a criterion on the effectiveness of the courts, as opposed to taking certain specific cases, we explain them in our own way and assert that everything is wrong now. More importantly, it has been reported today that only between 2% and 3% of the cases have been dismissed. So of those against whom a complaint is filed in general, we said 15% somewhere, the rest of them obviously did not consider it necessary to file a complaint, so a very small percentage of the cases dismissed are. Furthermore, the ECHR, therefore the European Court of Human Rights issued only two judgments against Slovenia in 2016 in which it found certain infringements, the number of those judgments against Slovenia in which human rights violations are being committed is rapidly decreasing. So for 2016, only two. The European Commission therefore no longer notes in its annual report in the so-called European Semester that the problems that the Commission, as it has noted in previous years, should remain in the area of judicial resolution. Therefore, I think that the first, the proposal for a first decision is unfounded, because we have all the reviews we need in the Courts' reports, in the Prosecutors' reports, in the State's Attorney's Office and these reviews are available, we can also look at if we want a basis of the courts, a basis of the Constitutional Court and so on and take note of the violations that have been found. There's no reason for you to do it now and I don't know how long ago the government's been doing it. With regard to the second decision, where it is proposed to the Government to take measures, let us take a closer look at the improvement recommended, the National Assembly recommends to the Government that the report proposes solutions to ensure that individuals are treated fairly impartially and independently, and so on, and let's see what the Government has already adopted and why this proposal is not necessary in my opinion. We have enacted mechanisms for the enforcement of higher standards of official and private conduct and the dismissal of judicial officials. With this we have implemented GRECO recommendations, introduced mandatory codes of ethics and the Ethics and Integrity Commission. A candidate can no longer run for judge with a legal indictment. Disciplinary proceedings against judges have been taken over by the Council of Justice under the new Law on the Council of Justice, which means that disciplinary proceedings will no longer be conducted by the courts. A department for the supervision of the organisation of court operations at the Ministry of Justice has been established and is managed by a Judge appointed. The reform of the State Defence Service has been carried out in the State's Attorney's Office and so on. We have passed a number of laws in the field of justice, so if I just mention some, we have also amended that Law on Enforcement and Insurance, we expect another amendment, which will also address the general level of the problem that we are also mentioning several times today, and this is the issue of enforcement into real estate when it comes to low amounts. We have changed the Law of Justice, introduced, adopted a new Law on Collective Actions, amended the Law on Courts, and very many measures have been taken in this area to ensure and improve the whole process, namely the predictive, criminal and then before the courts. We have set out a more objective and transparent procedure for the selection of candidates for election to the judicial and prosecutorial functions. We have introduced mandatory public publications from the list of deletions from the catalogue of lawyers and the reasons for this and the names of all disciplinary bodies of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. We have put in place mandatory public statements on the opinions of the Ethics and Integrity Commissions within the framework of the judiciary and the prosecution. A free review of the data provided by the Court of First Instance and a public publication of the judgments of the Courts of First Instance, the so-called “supervisor”, was established on the basis of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of January 2017 and so on. In addition, in July 2016, the new Law on State Administration entered into force, which explicitly adds to the Ministry of Justice's tasks the study and planning of the exercise of fundamental human rights and freedoms. This gave us the authority, especially the Ministry, to one of the ministries of human rights. The Ministry of Justice has also begun to monitor more closely the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations and the Ombudsman has already stated several times on committees where we have also discussed her report on the state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, that the Government is also providing a response report for half a year on how the Ombudsman's recommendations are being implemented. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe further noted in its 10th report on the supervision of the enforcement of ECHR judgments, this Court of 2016 found that the statistics of the executed judgments of this Court in respect of all the Member States of the Council of Europe are improving and that Slovenia has contributed significantly to more favourable statistics as two major final resolutions of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe were adopted in 2016, which is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the ECHR judgments, namely the implementation of the Lukend judgment in respect of a reasonable period and effective judicial protection. In short, we have also taken a series of measures within this Government's mandate to actually bring about a fair trial and to allow the procedures to proceed in accordance with our constitutional order and other legal order so that I think that the second decision is not necessary and it is correct that we have rejected it. The third conclusion to analyse the responsibility of individual officials and other responsible persons is therefore available to us and it is possible to initiate all appropriate procedures on the basis of this legislation in order to establish this responsibility, but of course in a process where the facts and evidence are given, if there is evidence of any responsibility, if the conditions are given to determine that responsibility, then this responsibility will be established, if not. That is why there are legal procedures, and therefore from civil justice to criminal proceedings, so that this decision is not necessary in my opinion, and I believe that it has also been rejected. And we insist on this today, too, on the Members of the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u67	Replica Mr. Joseph Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I want to replicate my dear colleague, Jasna Murgel, a respected doctor of law. You misunderstand me. I'm sorry. We have given you numbers such as Euro barometer, 16% confidence, we have cited examples in the material that you would not tell us that we are coming to this National Assembly without any cases, without arguments. I know this report, which you have shown me very well, and I regret to take advantage of it now to invite you to reconsider and to make a positive climate at the October session to support both our proposals for legislation. The New Slovenia proposal on the courts and the New Slovenia proposal on the prosecution, because I heard that you created the climate on the home labour body, which helped to bring the laws down. However, there were some intellectuals on the side of the coalition, which I am extremely grateful to, but who, in their common sense and full consciousness, supported these two laws of ours. So it's time for the midterm.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u69	Mrs. Iva Dimic, representative of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Of course, who's gonna have lunch with Mrs. Murgel? However, we also read the report, today we have considered it on the functioning of the Courts for 2016, but we would return to the third recommendation, which was the basis of today's point. This was, of course, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, analyse the responsibility of individual officials and other responsible persons and, in accordance with the law, initiate appropriate procedures for their resolution or action against all these officials. I don't see the problem in this third conclusion that you just so, I'd say, ran him over on the committee itself. However, we all say that we want justice to be fair, that trust is returned and, of course, that those who do bad things are not least sanctioned. What if I just look at 2015, 10. Around September 10, 2015, we had two such rather problematic cases in Slovenia, including in the judiciary. [[…]] This was the Masles case and Fisher's case, which just didn't happen. The officials did not make a self-critical, self-reflective decision to do anything, nor did the ministry, but what was then, the current minister said at the time, that as a minister of justice, they could not interfere with their decisions on what they would do, but it seems to me that, above all, it is necessary for our officials to have difficulties taking on subjective responsibility, but not just that. Even for his irregularities and his illegality. Well, that was proven and nothing happened. That's what we're trying to say, some kind of abuse, detection, persecution and so on. This doesn't work if we have top officials who can't do it. I don't talk that much back. I also read this report on the courts. Back to back, things are cleaned up, and so on. But we need to know where to go back, and those things were the worst, where they caused the most irregularities or anything. However, I was interested as the Constitutional Court, as a top authority before entering the ECHR, in the European Court of Human Rights, in what is happening there, in what they perceive, in what problems, and also in this report on page 83, the Constitutional Court has often – 27 times – found a violation of Article 22 of the Constitution. And that is, in practice, the right to a declaration and the right to a reasoned judgment. That's what we're talking about today. Infringements of the right to judicial protection referred to in Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Constitution appear somewhat, and the so-called Constitutional Court finds that cases have also taken place in the field of the Constitution, a violation of the Constitution, which has been found eight times for the Constitutional Court. Other human rights violations included violations of the right to privacy and personal rights. This is Article 35 of the Constitution. Inviolability of the apartment, first paragraph of Article 36 of the Constitution and the right to secrecy of letters and other publications, first paragraph of Article 37 of the Constitution. According to the Constitutional Court, this has been highlighted in this year's Courts Report 2016. I am not talking about the operation of 2008, 2007 but we are talking about the 2016 report. There are still violations, including human rights, on the basis of the Constitution. What I think is serious is to think about, and from this it seems to me that our proposal for the 3rd Decision recommended that the responsibility of individual officials be analysed, but we could say we will finally take one step forward in Slovenia and, of course, resolve matters in an appropriate way. We wanted someone there to be exposed to a public wall, but still, to look at ourselves, we will not allow it in Slovenia anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u71	Three more debaters have been reported, at least in this regular part. Dr. Dragan Matić, Mr. Jože Tanko and Dr. Mitja Horvat. Dr. Matić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. Now, at the outset, I'm going to point out that I'm going to have a little wider debate, but basically I'm just going to relate to, basically, what some of my predecessors have been saying, so I'm going to point out right now that I wouldn't have any idea that I'm moving away from this, because they already are. Now, as already said by colleague Zorčič, there are cases in the debate that started long before this mandate, many of them already have a beard, even ad acta. In this way, it is trying to show that the work of the police, the courts of the present time are weak, which of course does not hold up some sober judgment, because the international institutions recognise us with great success, and there has been tremendous progress on the judicial backlogs that have been the permanent force of this judicial system over the past 20 years, and the overall situation will certainly be improved by the planned legislative changes. Now that it is a matter of determining the responsibility of an individual judge, this can only be resolved on a case-by-case basis. Now looking for cases of excellence and generalizing from individual situations is, of course, a political moment that someone may think will bring him some political points, in this way, but I doubt it. Now, many of the present debates come in conflict with themselves or fall into the past itself, as has already been the case with Mr Gorenak. Mr Gorenak had several different views in the past when he was in various roles, when he was, I don't know, the minister for the police, threatened the police union by cancelling the collective agreement, and then accused them of playing ping-ponk between the hours paid by the state. But when a few years later a police strike came and he was an MP, he supported them on a large mouth and his heart bled over the difficult conditions of police. Thus, these roles sometimes change, even positions change, but we should keep some level of debate. Now, if I stop at the debate of Member Horvat, who sometimes calls himself Member 90, I must say that at least part of his debate was really at the level of 90. In this way, to explain or evaluate the work of judges when it shows us in some way some kind of innular debate, for example, that a Puerto Rico judge boasts about how she has made someone and how she is another blacksmith. I do not think that this is the way to debate in Parliament. If Member Horvat has a specific case, let him come with a name, surname, with evidence. Now in this way to criticise the judicial system in some alleged cases that are to happen and that, which he has heard something about, but says so more generally, is a very strange way. I think, Mr Horvath, instead of lamenting these alleged cases, which are more so wrapped in a veil of mystery, it would be good to open some kind of law that we are preparing or preparing for the government. Now, even as far as these percentages are concerned, 16% are believed to trust the court, according to some data only 8% of the people in Parliament. Now I, I don't know how Members would feel if the judges had any advice, but there would be little discussion about this worrying percentage of confidence in the Member and then propose some measures to increase people's confidence in the legislature. Is this now an appropriate debate when we are talking in essence about a branch of power. I don't know. I doubt that. And now, Mr. Breznik, who was talking about the immune system that he canceled. The name system was cancelled and here he was talking about the fact that the lustration was not performed as in the German case, this is what you like very much in the SDS, where all the judges and professors who were following the Stasi were replaced and there the transition was successful and not with us. Now he also points out that a wife of one of Stasi’s associates still judges. Now, I don't know if in Germany the wife of a co-conspirator of the Judgment judges. Now I don't know if in Germany Stasi's partner's wife can't judge, I don't know. Would you ask yourself, though, did your government, under the leadership of Mr. Janez Janša, pass any lustration laws in four years? Is that what happened? Not that I know of. And you know why it didn't happen? Because many of us should shoot each other themselves, because among you are former communist party officials and other visible authorities of that time, of course, you have not been able to do so, but you have preferred to hold on to some parallel lustration, which has not gone well. Now, if we remember December last year, Mr Janez Janša said to the weekly Democracy that, paraphrasing, I do not have a precise quote that the prerequisite for normalising society is that the material of SDV becomes universally accessible, that it is more important than if we had 10% economic growth. He said something about it. Now how did your government do it? In 2011, when Mr Omerza wanted to get to the SDV archive material, Mr Celan, then Director of the Sowe, came to me, and he had reached an agreement under which Mr Rupnik and Mr Koshir had been signed. Mr Rupnik was appointed by Mr Janša as Director of the Owl and Mr Koshir Simoniti, Minister of SDS, Minister of Culture. And these two gentlemen signed an agreement that the archive material of the SDV was not available until 2044. Is this now an example of good practice? I can bring you this contract, Mr. Janša, because you're a dragon with your head, you've probably forgotten. We've got this all fixed up. == sync, corrected [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I don't have one here, but I'll deliver it to you. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, yeah, don't worry. MrNext example, in 2013, sir, also Director of Sove, Crnčec, and Mr Dežman, Director of the Archives, also failed to bring all the material of the SDV, although you say that the super important thing is more important than 10% economic growth, even in another you have failed. So this is how we talk now about how the lustration wasn't performed and how terrible it is now, because it didn't happen. Look, you guys had a chance, and somehow you didn't make it. And now here you are discussing that, I think, because it was also a little funny, Mr Breznik wondered which of those judges who had committed mass violations of human rights and should have taken part of their salary, that is a variable part. I mean, is this a suggestion that for mass violation of human rights is a sanction for the seizure of variable labour? I mean, that's kind of a weird suggestion. [[advertising from the hall]] Then, Mr. Janez Janša did not have an independent trial. What about Mr Riedl, but he didn't have an independent trial in Austria? But there's also an immune system in Austria in the courts that he canceled? Because we have the Patrio case, which has real foundations in the judgment of the Austrian Supreme Court. It clearly says who took the money and who it was meant for. Now, unless you're saying that in Austria too, the judicial system that has failed, which, I don't know, has been overtaken by, I don't know, agents of which one-party system, which then works so badly and affects Slovenia. Yes, Mr. Janez Janša spoke about cases that are not excesses, but rules. Now, he was also talking about the bank hole being investigated by Anzet's committee, the Anzet committee. Now, between 2004 and 2008, that's what your government said, a bank hole of 5 billion, 5 billion. And then, in all the supervisory boards of banks, there were people who were set up by the SDS. Credits were given, given, very generously, it was not difficult to obtain them, including people with a name, Bavčar and Shrot, as well as they received them, and they also went to visit the government palace, for example, in August 2005, after Mrs Adrijana Starina Kosem, the leading members, I think, one of the leaders in the SDS, the State Secretary in the then cabinet of the Government, there were some arrangements regarding Mercator shares, on the other hand, in exchange for balancing the media that they wrote at the time too left. Now, was that an extraordinary event or was that a rule? What about the extraordinary event about Intereuropa, Andre Lovšin, 100 million blew up. Is this an extraordinary event, or is that a rule? So Robert the Timer, Luca Koper, is this an extraordinary event, or is that a rule? I don't know. Look, or the former mayor of Rupar, and the MP, who also ended up in prison. Is this an emergency or a rule? I'm fighting. I want to understand where you're seeing the excess now, where the rule is. [[…]] I don't know. I don't understand your model. Because all these cases that I've listed should be kept in mind when we think about who's recommending something. Who was trying to help make the system better? Who tried to purge the system of those who had committed mass violations of human rights? Did he have a chance? Didn't he manage to clean it? And how is this moral authority on this side now? Now, if the judicial system didn't work, we couldn't say. Mr. Bavčar and Mr. Shrott are sitting down, and they've been convicted. It's hard to say now that nothing works and no case comes to an end. So let us also look at examples of good practice. If you want to have an objective judgment, let us draw positive cases, not just those that you think are excellent, but they started in 2007 or in 2010. This government hasn't had a mandate yet. Give more if we look back in history, remember, comrades, let's get everything out, even what was good when there was a positive epilogue, not just what you think is wrong. Some objective criteria, some indicators, international legal comparisons, a reduction in judicial backlogs, all of that. I miss this paper a little bit, maybe it would be good if it were a little more refined next time, so that we could have a discussion based on some kind of material that would have some more real basis for everything I said, of course, it is clear that we could not even support recommendations on this basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u73	Replica, Mr. Joseph Horvat, then representative of the proposer, Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Mr. Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I must tell my respectable colleague Dragan Matić, the doctor of science, otherwise I don't know if it's worth it, or if he won't remember that I never said I was a member of the 90s, and I'm worried, my colleague Dr. Matić, if you count us here. We, in Novi Slovenija or in the opposition, cannot count, you know. But everyone knows, I've said it a hundred times, only you don't know that I'm talking about the seat number 90 where I'm sitting. Well, now, if you're going to compare me to a seat, thank you for that. Thank you also for rating me by number, giving my debate a score of 90, if 100 is possible, thank you very much. You haven't listened again, and it's a good thing that you're sitting here listening, not doing anything else and 100 other things. I was quoting a professor of European law. I quoted the professor of European law, I don't want to name him here, really, because I didn't ask him if he could, but he has a lot of columns and what to Google is a professor of European law and you'll find who that is. I am really asking for a little more precision, but not just making fun of the discussions of the opposition Members. We're just as elected as you are, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u75	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u76	Yes, but now the situation requires some comments. Now, Secretary of State and Secretary. Now, what are you doing here - stealing money and "cite" or how. You predicted an hour, and now I'm looking at you here because I don't need your picture, and I need your words. A, B. When I was talking about a lot of cases today, look, one text came back, what we were talking about the last time, someone wrote to me, and this is a young judge. It is, however, that today it may have proved true how we criticize the entire justice of all 900 judges, all of them, I don't know, 220 prosecutors and so on. Not ladies and gentlemen, therefore, it is also necessary to tell the public that the cases we are talking about belong mainly to judges and prosecutors or to police officials who belong to another regime and who judge at some other time, or are older people, especially those who did not switch it over to the 1990s and who do not separate, still think that what Bavcon wrote is true that criminal law is a means of persecuting an internal enemy, but they have now replaced the opposition and the internal enemy, and they are still acting on the same principle. But there are many judges and many prosecutors, especially young people, including the judge who sent me this text, which we must not ignore. And our last conversation, when we talked about the state of justice and what we're going to deal with today, I also showed her the material, but the response is about the next one, so don't think you don't have any support. You have it, but we don't hope to tell each other. This is the state of justice and the prosecution. Now, so it's clear who's flying and so on and not flying at all, not flying at those who are just judges, who are doing well and so on. Mr. Matić, I need to get back to you here. We've spent the last two days together in Brussels, and you've been quite a normal conversationalist, at least for coffee. We just agreed on a lot of things, but now you're really confusing some things. And now we're going in order. I agree that the SMC, as a party to which you belong, has nothing to do with these cases. Okay, but you have, above all, tolerance and promotion and reward for people who are involved in cases we're not talking about. Look, you raised Mr. Skull, and you sent him to Eurojust. Look, Mr Klemenčič has been given the greatest opportunity in your coalition in his life, he's become a minister because he broke the law, and informally your colleagues told me, we found no other, God help us, and we took him as minister. Finally, you rewarded Mr Funk with the position of CEO, and we all know what was going on with the Kangler case. Even with Patria if you want. Well, that gives you a lot of rewards for these people. But you messed up that police union thing and changing your statements. Yes, it is, I did, because the police union at the time had a contract with the state, so as such, with the government that they could benefit, remember how today's situation is, I don't know that 70 to 80 cops "ful time" time, it's a half-time, 8 hours a day, worked for the union. That's the kind of contract they had. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! 70 to 80 cops to work for you all the time, to pay, to draw benefits and, of course, to play ping-pong among other things, because they did call for it, and skiing, and I don't know what else they had. All during work hours. And that's why I told them to cancel the contract, which I would have heard if I was still a minister. Then you said how they bleed and suffer. Yeah, of course, I've been talking about those out here who are out here fighting, if I may say so, with those who have been throwing stones for money out here. That's what I'm talking about. So you don't mix these two statements up. Now for the lustration. First of all, the lustration you imagined was never meant to be. Never! When you said yes, you should be the members of the ZK yourself. That's not true. Lustration is conceived within the meaning of the Judicial Service Act. It is said that there cannot be a judge who has violated human rights in the previous system according to current standards. The same was meant for lustration in this respect, saying those who violated human rights and freedoms, these are active and spare members of the intelligence service, and of course the political top of the party, political leadership, which, of course, has guided and not members of the KIC. And further, look at the SDS that I belong to, has twice sent to this National Assembly the Lustration Act. Twice! But he wasn't accepted. Yeah, we sent it. Our task force. Twice. Twice. See if you're gonna replica no. [[…]] Look, if you provide me, please, if you give him a replica, if you give me the support of your 35 Members, we'll file a bill tomorrow morning. Can I have a word with you? Give me backup, that'll do it. We need 46 votes. Count yours, New Slovenia I know you wouldn't mind. You don't need pensioners, not SDs, not lions. We'll get the law right away. Here you go. Look forward to talking about the agreement and the Rupnik and so on. Rupnik never signed an agreement that the archive material of the SDV would not be handed over to the archive. That's not true. We both know that. We both know that some of the material has been delivered between 0 and 4' but very, very little. We both know that most of the materials were already handed over to you in the days of '04 and '08. But it's true, so we're talking about most of the material, not like you told everyone else, but it's true that Rupnik signed some kind of agreement for some little piece of archive, I emphasize, without the knowledge of the government. At that time, I participated in all the meetings of the Government, even though I was Secretary of State in the Cabinet and we have never considered this material in the Government. So we have to be fair and fair. Not that it's all that, but it's not the subject of today's session. Look, now you've gone to credits in '04 and '08. Look, between '04 and '08, maybe you took credit for your car. Maybe I'm talking. But I had, like, a loan at the time. But the government has decided that. You know the government didn't make that decision? You can't say the government is responsible for your credit or my loan. The government is, of course, responsible for the state of the state budget and is responsible for all the situation in this regard. What we've done to the country's debt of 26, I think it's 21%. And not least, look, '08 left the government's control with the first time in history plus. Not to read this to this government because it doesn't. Because he doesn't. You were talking about Mercator and those things. I think someone else is going to answer you next to me, but I'm going to say this anyway. But that was okay when Mrs. Bratuškova was selling Mercator? But that was okay? I don't know why it was okay. She's been meeting in public. I'll even say it with them. Otherwise, we have cleared up the matter of Mercator's alleged sale in this National Assembly in that mandate, as far as I know, and look at the matter later on for another term. The watchman, Rupar, Loshin. What does this have to do with the judges? What does this have to do with today's topic? Have them convicted. Whoever did this has to be convicted. We have no influence on that. I repeat, whoever did this is to be convicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u77	Replica, Mr. Dragan Matić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u78	Yes, thank you for the words of the President. Now all I wanted to explain was that maybe we didn't get along. I was talking about that you didn't file a lustration law during your government. But if you were investing in the opposition, it's the fate of the opposition's laws. Of course, during your government, the lustration law, or the lustration law, was not introduced, now how you imagined it or would lustrate only judges or anyone else, or officials, has now been said to be a little wider, not just judges. Now I did not say that Rupnik had adopted an agreement or a contract to transfer the material but that much of the material was not available until 2044 and they took it by taking this last document, which was still in the file that started before 1990 and it continued until 2004 and they gave it 40 years and it would then be determined that it was not accessible to that material on so-called living cases. This is said when the Udja started something then the SDV continued because we also did not have interruptions in the area of the Secret Service with previous structures in the one-party regime. We know who the last director of the SDV was, and then he didn't decide to cancel the SDV, but he just shut down the internal part in charge of internal control, and he left the outside agents behind, and he left everyone else behind to move on, and that's why this material was announced until 2044 on the basis of that, once again, I would like to point out the director named Janez Janša, who sits here. On the basis of this agreement between this director and the director of the archive, the supervisory councils of the state banks have now looked away from where the excess loans were being made without adequate insurance, because we know this, 5 billion at this time, it was in this way that the supervisory councils were looking away, when they should have acted and the economy overheated with these loans, that is how the tycoons were created, as your former Minister Damjan writes to you on his behalf. Why, though, did I mention the Timer and the Bavčar, because there was talk of a bank hole, because it was then created, because these were actors who helped to dig and are so visible and fortunately at least these two experienced the right hand to catch them. Of course, there could be more. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u79	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Then the representatives of the Government and the two candidates for the final part should be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Look, now, I have a feeling that Mr Matić is talking about things he doesn't even understand. However, financial activity is not likely to be a subject that he could interpret reliably in this National Assembly. The only Mercator sale that happened was made in your mandate, your government gave it to the Croats, it was a sale, not another one, until the other government was all Slovenian, now it is no longer. With regard to that instigation of irresponsibility, you have in your Group a Member who has been involved in a criminal act at one of the institutions and you have done nothing, it is already a Member. I'm asking you, why isn't the process running out? The non-politicals in the National Assembly, as you have determined or determined, the withdrawal of the mandate, let them do so here, while you are talking about credibility, credibility and so on. You've got this right here, right in front of you. Now, with regard to this government report that we have received on this one, I must once again protest this material in some way to the President of the National Assembly. The government is not the one to determine in any way whether this is the material that we may or may not have provided for the convening of an extraordinary meeting. The president of the National Assembly did not react, he did not react again. The government has no authority to say this and, secondly, the recommendations we have made are not contrary, as the Government of the fundamental rule of law has written. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, they are an integral part of the foundations of the rule of law, we have remedied them accordingly, with editorial corrections and, as such, have been put into the process and also the Legislative and Legal Service has found that they are consistent with their findings. Nevertheless, the coalition did not support them, and in a few days the construction package will be on the agenda, where the amendments are more than members. They're not cured by the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, but you've confirmed them. So much for the duality of the government and the duality of the coalition. When you arrived, Mr President of the National Assembly, I would ask you to convene this meeting at the time of Mr Klemenčič, Minister. Whenever we address an important issue in the field of justice, it is required by us, the Minister is not. The government's been quiet for five hours. Mr. Chief, I'm lucky, I've been with him for another meeting today, he's been sitting here for 10 hours or 11 hours, hasn't said a word, not in a closed court, not here. Not a word. And the government's attitude towards the National Assembly is, in fact, catastrophic. Also, what you are saying, the Government in no sentence has troubled any subject of our proposal, nor one, but we listed them - Mr. Gorenak said there about 25, 30 - none. So everything that's written here stands. The key problem I see, however, is that the problem is that you, with ease, are extremely easy on the part of some, including the former judge, to talk about compensation. Indemnifications are part of a problem that does not affect those who have experienced as much fate as is dealt with here, and that does not affect even 5%. They give financial compensation, they don't give back broken families, they don't bring back family problems, they don't bring back problems at work, they don't give back jobs, they don't give back anything, they never give back a good name. What has been done in these cases is a conscious process that has been brought down. And for me, it's not so much a problem for people who break. The problem is the judges, prosecutors and those who are in these infringement proceedings, those who should be judged by the Constitution and the law, which are here in writing, and in these cases we find violations today in these cases. I think in these cases it is necessary to say that these things should no longer happen. Look, Judge Jasna Murgel, from the government's parliamentary group speaks with extreme ease, but this is how it will be, and the law is to blame, and the solutions are to blame. They are not guilty of the laws because the law has not broken the law, and the law has not broken the Constitution, but man has. The one who was appointed to do so in a particular procedure to judge by the Constitution and the law. And here, in these cases, it's personal responsibility and personal decision, not the problem of the law. This has nothing to do with the law. Another problem that arises in all these things is rewards. Colleagues have talked a lot about problems, cases, and I'll talk about rewards, at least for some. Mr Rob and Mr Squeakl were members of the Social Democrats, and they were involved in two affairs. One is a wiretap in the Bay of Piran, the other is an affair with Patria. Mr Cwickl led an investigative committee in the National Assembly, which in any way wanted to prove something and to find out that he was connected to the person who was serving pear in Systemic Engineering. But apparently this project was very successful for the background or for those who launched the affair. And Mr. Squeakle was rewarded. The President of the Government then became Borut Pahor in the elections, won the SD elections after this affair, and the award for Mr Cwickle was the service in the European Court of Auditors. There's 20 to 25 thousand euros a month's wages. With three salaries, he earned more than the President of the Government. The second person involved in these stories was Mr Rob. Vice-President, Vice-President of the European Investment Bank. That's exactly what he's paying for. The only difference is that Mr Rop had a three-year term and Mr Squeakle had a six-year term. That these awards continue is an example in the New Ljubljana Bank and Mr Kos, including a participant in the Patria project. High contract deal with the New Ljubljana Bank. If you count it on normal work, it's about 700, 800 thousand euros a year. A prize for Mr. Klemenčič. Despite all the behavior he's been doing and all the violations, he's now a minister. Now it is only a question of when in one open matter, when it showed that it would be the most out of date, he said that heads would fly. Why don't they fly their heads in the case of the SMC, Irene Košnik Grošelj, or in the case of his key, that things don't even run like we've heard. Why such duplicity and, above all, attacks from the SMC in these cases. None of these cases were problematic in the government opinion. Everyone's standing, so everybody's standing. And just the question of why this is not happening in other cases, even in the case of Jankovic, even in the case of, I don't know, you mentioned Lovšin and his partner who was dealing with him in Russia. Why don't you mention the other one, Mr. Scrabble? These are the problems that are and that need to be effectively debated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u81	Before I give the floor forward, however, I say that all the conditions for this point to be happening are procedurally met, and that it is happening at this very moment and at the same time, in democracy, that everyone has the right to his own opinion and that they can express it, so the Government has the opportunity to express it. But if someone disagrees with him, he just says it, and that's all said, so we don't really need to go on with it. Now is the time for us to move to the conclusion of the general debate in which the representatives of the Government, if they so wish, and the representative of the proposer, are given the floor. I'll ask the government representatives first, will you? Yeah. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Darko Stare, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. Good greetings to all Members of Parliament! However, given that there were no very substantive discussions on the proposed conclusions with any measures that could contribute to the realization of what was meant by the conclusions, we did not respond in particular, because I simply do not have any powers, nor behaviour, nor do I see the possibility that I could say something constructive in the appointment of Exercise, Rob and these matters around which past passages seem completely unnecessary and unnecessary. But there's something I'd like to warn you. Today, on the Justice Committee, there was a Court of Justice report for last year, and I think that the representatives of the judiciary have made it very clear that 16 judicial reform laws have been passed in the last three years and some have the feeling that these things must be carried out, that this is too much for them to have counter-effects. And at the same time it was also found because I understand you, because this is the logic of the party policy and some positions, the starting point is that those facts that are not in your policy's interest to your beliefs simply ignore them, but these facts, despite your ignorances, exist and others very clearly justify them and expose them, outside Slovenia. And the undeniable fact is that from 2013 to 2016 the procedures have been substantially accelerated, reduced that the backlogs have been virtually eliminated at the systemic level, which identify competent international institutions, that the procedures are substantially more fair and transparent, and that this trend continues, also because of the measures taken by this Government, 16 laws, and this is also the result of actions from past periods, that is, past governments. What I would like to add in the context of not wanting to discuss and see the facts that are contrary to your beliefs, but the issues that also stem from the material, that, in fact, such debates, the problems of justice in our society and beyond, are practically constant and present all the time, since independence. And the fact is that all of these cases, probably not a coincidence and it is also important for me, in my opinion, to communicate today's debate on these recommendations, that all of these examples that you are referring to in your writings are examples from a distant past that are already practically completed. Even when the report of the Constitutional Court was mentioned this year, the individual violations of the Constitution or of human rights under our Constitution, which were found at the time of the work of the Constitutional Court in 2016, all of these findings relate essentially to violations that were committed five, six, seven, eight years ago, because we know how long through the ordinary courts of the Supreme Court the matter will take place before the Constitutional Court. So, in fact, I got a feeling in this debate, which was more or less unconvincing with arguments, not substantive at all on this side, but more like what I say, negotiating with some incomplete, inaccurate, misleading information cities, especially by ignoring the important objective facts that everyone sees, but you can read them in the reports of the authorities of this country, our common country, including yours, who are so uncritically criticized. This, however, is because Mr Mahnic said that I do not know any quotations from the fact that our discussions of public officials as well, our public statement can have a significant impact on the perception of the public, which also affects confidence in the country, its institutions, judicial authorities and so on. You know, today who just wanted to hear this, that perception of the public or confidence of the public, the wider and the narrower ones, who have direct experience with justice and even in Slovenia, are somehow identified in three elements. One is so-called procedural justice, the other is distributive justice, but the third element is efficiency and distributive justice in other words means the feeling of people, the public as to how systems work, and this feeling is certainly created by us, who are in these responsible functions with our discussions, and if we ignore the vast or large majority of the facts that mean good practices, good trends, positive things and talk about only one rule of the bad, which is bad and it is necessary for the system to respond and be responsible, and in particular to take some systemic measures to ensure that such things do not occur in the future, that is essentially in some way of manipulating and that is unacceptable to me and therefore I do not want to participate anymore. In these three years, I have learned in this debate because it is infertile and harmful to our community. I am deeply convinced of this and your ignorance of the important progress of development of our society as well as your manipulative lies, obviously false statements, and this I will now support, important people, because you know in logic and reason there are also known mistakes, so-called mental errors and one of the important mistakes is a condition of authority or because of the confirmation of error. And that's just because we have our own beliefs, our own views, our own theories, and that's why we don't want to hear all the facts that these beliefs actually deny us. It's the same with authority. When an important expert, not named of course, academically, or important politicians, six parties and so on, says something, you do not want to limit the freedom of opinion and the courage of those in the same group to say something that is obviously true but does not go in the context of some position that the opposition has in this case, so that it comes to power and beats, I don't know what to make an impression that everything is wrong. That's too bad. That's what I had in mind the last time Mr Mahnic said, and today I think so. Now, I'm going to make a few concrete cases to argue that this is a matter of manipulation that is harmful to our community. Given the function of all of us, but especially of you in the opposition of Members. See, since 2013 it has been banking economic crime that what is still part of the judiciary would have said laws or procedures that remained to make this very graduate, gradual, soft reform happen. That's how the builders see it. That's what they told you today on the Justice Committee. These laws, or these things, have happened now in three years, but they are not in the past ten years. Even though you had a four-year opportunity in 2012. And Mrs. Dimicheva said it well. The Council of Justice, now that the law has been passed, has given him some authority to independently identify and supervise the work of the courts, because this is the third branch of power. We're executive, mate. We can't judge here in front of the cameras or now someone's done something right or done something wrong. That's why we have the legal remedies, we have the urgency, we have the Constitutional Court. And sometimes, if you don't agree with something, you just have to accept it, so it's a system and this system works. And, if it has been said nicely today, we have 13% of the complaints, 2.6% of the judgments of the repealed first-degrees, which is a positive trend systematically, that there are significantly less complaints at second level now, which means that decisions of the first stage are likely to be so justified and convincing that they do not see one or the other party as meaning in the complaint and this is systemic progress. And these are the responsibilities and responsibilities of the executive branch of power, not that I'm going to say here now whether this person A did something wrong because I don't have the data, it's irresponsible. The fact that some judgment is final and just. The conclusion means that it is consistent with the law, which is justifiably logical. However, it is right that an explanation attracts everyone in this people on behalf of whom it is judged that they feel that it is actually just in view of, for example, the reality of the situation. And you can only see that from an explanation. Therefore, the judgments and we are working to ensure that all, from the first to the Supreme Court, we now have only a few higher and then a systemic impact on the uniform practice, and this is a normal phenomenon and these numbers, which I have told you 13% of the complaints, 2.6 have been annulled, are completely comparable to the European Union or with those countries of which the same over the national community. And now working from these individual cases, which are all of them from a time when ours wasn't even here, that everything sucks, seems irresponsible, inappropriate to me. That's, I'd like to stress that because I think it is. This is how I see it, and therefore I do not want to discuss it in a transparent way and respond to these things that are redundancies and in fact have nothing to do with any reality that can have an important impact on the system in order to make it even better. It's not as bad as you show it, but it's anomalies. Therefore, something else needs to be taken up and look at this CAP, and I will mention it. At the four points of the witness hearing, and the investigation of what else has been established, the social weaknesses will be worse. This is a typical example of why nothing has changed in this area. Because most people don't want it and don't want it, all these claims are unreal, whoever read these articles, whoever went deeper or asked, not "un" superficial, unnamed, some academic expert told me not to name it because he wouldn't let me. Whoever he reads understands that there are two plus two fours and today no MPs will speak to the people, and two plus two voters are one, because everyone in this civilizational age and the development of humanity will know that this is not the case, but he can say that, uh, this CAP is more inconvenient for the social weak. How embarrassing it can be if we now have a system that none of the suspects in front of the police has the right to an attorney unless he can afford it, chooses it and pays it, and we propose that now, by official duty, all of them will have to have, if crimes are committed over 8 years old, all of the minors, all the mute, deaf and all those who, because of their position and personality, cannot understand their position before the state authority. Now he's got no one, and now he's gonna have them for once, I don't know, 5,000. How could this be a worse situation for the weaker, I've never heard of it, except for the flossules, it's weaker. How can one claim that now the situation that the sky does not know the inquisitorial state, if now the police or the prosecutors, are only 3 countries in Europe, all others have been regulated for 20 and more years, and everyone is also surprised at the European Court of Justice when the problems are "sui generis", an official reference to the citizen's messages collected, is said. To read these things and we are against the fact that the matter would be arranged more procedurally just, in order to be more transparent, transparent and also discernible under the “feast”, in the form of a record that they are talking and that then a person will sign. And you're obstructing these things, not only you're against them. And all of this is intended to make the procedures more effective, not in the sense that everyone will be convicted, effective, that fair and fair decisions will be made more quickly and easier at all stages of the procedure. And these two thesaurus have been established and they're all against it now, it's hard to understand, except in this political line, because we don't want to contribute to what we want to do or haven't done in the past, but there have been huge opportunities. None of these measures have been adopted. Topics, problems, challenges have been the same for 15 years. That is why this debate is difficult for me to accept in this way, because there is no content other than some flossules. At the same time, I would like to stress this, and I don't think it's right, but look, the bank hole, it started from 2004 to 2009. This is referred to or until 2010, as it does not matter, it is important that at the time these cases were not detected and they were not processed to the extent that they could be in the light of the magnitude of the phenomenon and the problem, which is criminal. Since 2013, the police have launched predictive procedures and issued 250 criminal complaints by the end of 2015 at the time of this government. 250 criminal charges. However, the prosecution has been able to convince the court, from this time forward from 2015 until now, with its indictments and evidence, the investigating judge, that he has instituted legal investigations into the suspicion of a hundred people, against a hundred accused, and that 46 defendants have been able to be tried by the court in the past two years to convince the court that they have been accused, which is why proceedings have already begun. And how it is now in the context of Mr Janša's statement that the police and the judicial authorities have done nothing. In 2012, my Government said that we had submitted a report from the Bank of Slovenia and nothing happened. What is it now? Whether it's some other system, numerical, counting, or how or whether it's misleading, in the context of what doesn't go into your theory, which you just represent in order to, either legitimately, come into power, but not in a way that is constructive, for destructive. You are saying something about misleading false information, and by doing so you are weakening the reputation of all those who are trying in all these bodies so that everyone can work better together. This is unacceptable to me, which is why I am not taking part in these debates and I am no longer responding. And, for example, the example that Mr Janša gave to Mr Zorčič. He is so shamelessly discussing his own case, Paria. I understand that he was hurt that he had been wronged, but so in the function of a Member he spoke about his own case and then that the case of Mr Zorčič, who was very justified and also very professionally very convincingly said something you did not want to hear, in the context of that, ignorance, and you said you would make an indictment, etc. [[advertising from the hall]] Well, wait, if you don't mind. Can you do that? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u83	Please, we can all listen. [[…]] We can listen to each other. In democracy, everyone can talk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u84	What Mr Janša said is on the tape anyway, you'll all be able to read. When I heard that, I was terrified because I was, I thought two things. Either in this function, you are politically manipulating or you do not fully understand the functioning of the legal system, the justice system and the rule of law. And if, for the starting point or for the conclusion of my thoughts, I use this assumption that you do not understand, then I understand how you can, not by having violated the Constitution today, but by seven cases of potential infringements of the judiciary and some of the judges who have read them from the articles and cases there, then I understand how you may have accepted the ZUJF, that you have violated the Constitution with one law and that 20 thousand people have been affected by their rights, and I understand how you and your Vice-President signed a regulation in 2006 which you, contrary to the law, have allowed thousands of users to make public companies, municipalities, institutions owned by the municipalities, legal persons, to sell the assets of a financial company, etc., without prior appreciation. And the Court of Auditors has given you this explicit warning, and you have disregarded it. Once again, you made another addition to the regulation in 2007 and then the Constitutional Court had to say that this is the opposite, and this broadens the substrate of this company's assets. Because, you know, the director, it's someone, probably through their own, who's in the government, and it probably wasn't a coincidence. And that makes it very difficult for me to listen to these things that have been around for a long time and you haven't done them. Look, we've done a lot in three years, we could do more if we were even more capable, but we did the right thing, as trends and results show. Even the wills, I've already told you, wills, it's simply a difficult thing to change, especially for the one who was deprived of it. But I told you in the debate at the time, the dimension of this problem. This was the number of thousands, and something else, I am now speaking from memory, from 1991 onward and assuming that the reform of 94 courts, 44 courts, was 1.1 wills to one court at an annual level. Aggregate that's a thousand. It's human for everyone, and it's unacceptable. But since the year this was established, 2015 has taken systemic measures and just last week we have received a report from the Supreme Court, because we expected and demanded it in the past, that since 2015 this case is no longer. This is an important systemic measure for us and has ensured that people, including stakeholders, are more secure in this context. It is interesting, but it was interesting to me, and at the same time shocking that in 2006 and 2005, when the Notariat Act, the novel you adopted was prescribed by a mandatory central register of will, and it was written in a transitional provision that all judicially protected or deposited wills, plus legal and notary wills, must arrive within 2 months in this register. And that's when they didn't come, interesting. On the contrary, an official under one of your ministers gave an interpretation in contravention of the law that it was not necessary to put it in, because if you put it in, you saw or could see that the wills, the ones that were essentially founded, were founded, were left under the rug. But now that this has come to pass, we have solved it, but this could have been resolved by then, and logically and self-evidently, it could have been because that law had arisen. That is why I find it difficult to accept these criticisms, which can be justified on a case-by-case basis, but in this way it does not seem appropriate to me. That is why, Mr Tanko, I do not respond anymore and do not interfere with individual matters, because it seems infertile to me. You don't want to hear what doesn't go into your context. I'm sorry, that's right, and I have the right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u85	He still has the word [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, no. [[advertising from the hall]] Wait. We're in the middle of the government's opinion, in fact, which I think is indivisible, but okay, procedurally has an advantage. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Now what Mr Stare has just said, Mr President, is not in the opinion of the Government, which was sent to the National Assembly. The government has just tried to answer some of the things we have given, but not even what Mr Stare said is in the government's opinion. However, I would like to remind him, Mr Staret and his Minister Klemenčič, that when they were at the KPK, the Court found violations of 8 laws and 3 regulations and a whole type of contracts, conclusion, breaches of the Public Finance Act, implementation of the budget and so on. The Court of Auditors' report, Mr President, I ask you to deliver to him that he will read what has been found there, because apparently those who are the main violators and are rewarded with functions are now explaining how the rule of law must work. They're the ones. And here you are teaching us what cases we are explaining or not explaining. You're lying, Mr. Old. Not me, you're lying because our cases are all there. With none of the reports you've written to the government, or the opinion you've written to the government, you haven't figured out whether there's anything wrong with it. Look. And you came here to defend the government's position and the government's opinion, not something else. That's how it is. And please warn him. Earlier in the introduction to my discussion, I told you that the Government has no place to stumble into extraordinary meetings or, I would say, the positions we make, or the recommendations we make. He can make his amendments to what we have put in, and so on. However, in the opinion that our recommendations undermine the foundations of the country, this is a fundamental ignorance of the constitutional regime, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the functions of the institutions in which we are, yours and yours. You're here and you come with materials that are essentially the work materials of the National Assembly. These are the laws of the government that come to the National Assembly. And if you will, Mr President, give them to the gentlemen who are sitting on the government's side, let's say from a package of building laws, to read and participate in many matters, including in personal matters, in any violation. So do you. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Mr. Old. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u87	What does this have to do with procedure? It has nothing to do with procedural matters, and I have to do this function in particular to respect the Rules of Procedure, and now our Rules of Procedure are relatively clear in this regard, but you have taken advantage of this procedural approach here so that you can attack the Government because it has an opinion, which I believe is admissible in democracy, and this opinion is also possible to express. Certainly the government is at this point, at least Mr Stare has no chance of answering, but I will continue from where we are. And that is, I will give the floor to the Master of Vesni Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior, still at the time of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, will somehow begin my implementation there, as we have heard many times today, that the purpose of today's meeting is certainly not to deal with open cases or cases that are any kind of matter of court. Of course, systemic errors, systemic shortcomings are something you can talk about, but today I am not sure that we are mostly in this sphere. Of course, specific human rights violations can also be known what the procedures are if these violations occur. Of course, the National Assembly is a legislative body and cannot interfere with the work of the courts, as we have heard many times today. We know what the constitutional principle of the division of power means. The judiciary is independent, and in open cases at all, there is no way to speak. But there is another dimension that I think is very important. In view of confidence in Parliament as the highest representative body, in the case of discussions such as today, it can also be reversed, because Parliament is somehow turning into a place to solve problems which are mostly of a professional nature, but we know that Parliament has a much higher mission, which is to deal with general social matters which go beyond [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u89	Government, never speak when you speak. Never. You have to admit that to her. It's only on your side that you speak when the government speaks. Please, you can continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u90	Thank you. Therefore, as specific matters have been said, they cannot be the subject of today's debate, but I will respond to some key points. In fact, Member, if I am not mistaken, Mahnic was somehow putting aside a case or case that was last considered to be a week, in public, that is to say, referring to the Commissioner of Logar. Here it is necessary to say that, according to the actual state of affairs, it was actually a suspicion of a crime of threat, which we want or do not want, that is being pursued on a proposal. This is a procedural assumption for which the Criminal Procedure Act provides that it must be that prosecution can begin at all and that it is not, in fact, significantly altered and this case has absolutely nothing to do with the forecasting of protests, in relation to the situation in Spain. Here, however, it was a purely actual verification of information from open sources, which I do not think can be any problem and there can be no problem. It's Kangler if I stop here. It is interesting that today we are discussing this, given that I am not mistaken, just on 30 August 2012, the supervision of Minister Gorenak, and also of the Directorate responsible for this supervision, found that there was essentially no irregularity in obtaining evidence and that the Minister did not issue any guidance in this regard. I am therefore surprised today that we are actually discussing this today. Moreover, as regards Magajna, it is clear that there was no response to what had actually happened in this case, and this matter was also assessed by the Ministry’s Directorate of Control, which is responsible for the systematic direction and supervision of the police, which found that certain professional errors, in particular the handling of seized cases, had been committed, but that it did not affect the legality of the procedure and that the police carried out work procedures against their employees, and that the Court of Justice had not in fact disputed that the findings of the police had been made in such a way that we had now clarified these essential findings concerning specific cases. Now, maybe I'll keep talking a little bit wider, and then I'll go back to the police, given that the police just belong to us after the department. I agree that, given that prosecution is in the public interest and that the country's criminal policy should not be based solely on efficiency but on a technical concept, it must also be proportionate and also adequate to the social reality, because it is only in this way that a repressive response can be effective and appropriate, and only in this case is this chain of justice, which, therefore, can serve its purpose from the discovery of prosecution. I think it is also clear from the debate before me that the discourse, which stems from the absolute mistrust of both the work of the law enforcement and prosecution authorities, will certainly not achieve any gains, here I fully agree, even though we are taking the view that there is still room for manoeuvre or some positive upgrade of the country's current policy in the area of dealing with crime. Slovenia is a democratic country, Slovenia has a good criminal and legal system, and in any case it still ceases the democratic test, we know that there are complaints about violations of the law on criminal proceedings because they must exist. There is an institution for the elimination of illegal evidence, and the rules are perfectly clear here, and regardless of whether the criminal system is a living substance or as we have heard today, it is in fact an immune system of the state to face rejections, but in no case should people's confidence in power be the basis for any political manipulation, because it creates a very severe psychological burden on society as a whole and I also think that the direction on people's mistrust in justice is wrong, because justice is an extremely important building block of social cohesion because we know how things are going. Legislation adopts laws or lays down a legal order, but it is the judiciary that must ensure its enforcement and such a risk of human-country ties being marketed is certainly not in place, and I also wonder who it would be in the interest of. I don't think even political parties should be interested because it leads to disintegration. Now, today we have also heard quite a few words about the police. In particular, it must be made clear here that under the Criminal Procedure Act it is the police who are obliged to act in accordance with the principle of legality. We know what this means, so when there are grounds for suspicion that a crime is to be committed, i.e. as a minimum level of probability, those measures are being implemented to either track down the perpetrator or provide evidence of a potential criminal procedure, that is the police's duty. The police do not have the option to act on the principle of opportunity, so to assess the usefulness of the procedure on their own, but we know that the actual predictive procedures are those that determine the outcome of criminal proceedings, but in any case it is in the interest of the police that the procedure is legal because we know, if it is not, the evidence is later eliminated, the Criminal Procedure Act is perfectly clear here. In any case, the standards of police work are professionalism, legality, professionalism, because this is certainly a great value and a guaranteed function of criminal law through the prosecution's direction, as well as through judicial supervision, is something that is extremely important. However, the fact is that the police deal with 70,000 criminal proceedings annually, then there are almost half a million criminal proceedings, and there is no doubt that a mistake will ever happen, but I think the police will also take responsibility for their mistakes, and that is also the case, and that is how they react and learn from these mistakes. This is also our direction that whenever there is evidence in court proceedings, groups are formed in the police and, of course, very much examine why this has happened, so that such proceedings will not occur in the future. Of course, it is also not negligible that the Ombudsman has always praised the high response of the police. The police have also responded to all initiatives, and it is not surprising that the European Committee for the Prohibition of Torture, at the time of this year's police supervision, has also identified that it has, in fact, been praised for treating people deprived of their liberty and who also respect human rights. Today, we have also heard a great deal about confidence in the judicial authorities, law enforcement authorities and, more recently, detection bodies. I have to say, trust in the police is not falling. The survey carried out in 2016 also shows that nearly 70% of respondents are trusted by the police. There is also growing confidence in the police profession, which is certainly positive, not only in the institution, but also in all areas of police work, that it is responsive, that it is professional and that it respects human rights. I'm sure that's how it's gonna be for the future. And since 2016, ensuring permanent security is also the task of the police, so I think that the perspective is certainly positive and going in the right direction. Today we have also heard again about some media reverberations. There was another talk of a coup d'état. We know it didn't happen and it won't happen. I have explained many times in the past, and today I will again, because this seems very important to me. Domestic investigations, in any case, no matter where they are carried out, that is, house investigations as an investigative act. This is the institution of the Criminal Procedure Act, which is carried out on the basis of predetermined conditions, and is ordered by the court by a reasoned written order. My colleague Stara has already started something in the direction of the importance and severity of the reasoned decisions. This is not just because today it somehow feels like the police are calling the prosecutor, the prosecutor calls the judge, and in two days we're probably in the courtroom. We know it doesn't work that easy. And it is also misleading to think that the house investigation, what has been said today, can only be carried out in the premises of the person in the process. The Criminal Procedure Act is very clear here because it refers to an investigation into the apartment or other premises of the accused or other person. Of course, all of this is linked to a very important evidence standard. These are the legitimate reasons for suspicion and the police are not actually entering the premises just as they have spoken here today. Without an order, it is only when someone calls for help or for the perpetrator or for the execution of an act of tyranny. I think it is important that this is also clarified, as well as the fact that the pre-trial procedure primarily serves the Attorney General, that he chooses whether or not he will pursue a particular person and/or prosecutor, who also directs the police. So as far as the Ministry of the Interior and the police are concerned, there is certainly no political abuse here and we cannot talk about it either. In specific cases, therefore, in specific forecasting procedures, the Minister does not direct the police because the law on police organisation clearly distinguishes the political dimension from the operational dimension, and this is precisely to ensure that the policy does not interfere with the operational work of the police, at least in my mandate it does not interfere and will not interfere, as I would not allow it. At the same time, I think that every smart Minister of the Interior knows that when the police follow the law on criminal procedure, they have to put their hands away because if they interfered in specific predictive procedures, we know what that is. It's an abuse of position, it's a crime. We also discussed how, or today, the talk was about how it was possible for the police to enter the government’s premises or the National Assembly. I'm going to do it again, given that it obviously didn't happen in previous periods. The house investigation at the premises of the public authorities is specifically regulated in the Criminal Procedure Act, but not by any specific conditions for their application. It is only specified that the chairman should be invited to attend the investigation, which was also the case, which was also carried out in accordance with the law. However, we have repeatedly said that, as long as there is a political will, the law specifically stipulates that one can enter these premises only if one, either the committee or the President of the National Assembly, or the prosecutor, has to change the law. But it is essential that we do not oppose this and, of course, we will, in any case or the police, act as the legislation will. I cannot agree with the thesis that, as it has been said today, I should have, if I had correctly written down that the police should have abused the State Prosecutor's Office and then the judiciary would have corrected these mistakes. I think that this thesis is highly fanciful and is not possible, given our systemic arrangements, because the path from the initiative or proposal of the police or the state prosecutor through the collection of evidence, to the prosecution and then to the indictment, is a very complicated process, which is entangled in a cascading evidence standard, which also has a guarantee function, given the intensity of interference with human rights. The police acts under the Criminal Procedure Act are subject to the examination of the legal conditions for their use, and the State Prosecutor must also weigh the evidence attached by the police to the criminal charges, also directing the police, as has been said, and also in the proposal of the State Prosecutor, it must state to the judge the specific circumstances and facts on the basis of which the investigating judge or judge decides that there is sufficient likelihood that the offence has been committed. In any case, however, as my colleague Stara has said, these decisions must be substantive, that is to say, specifically and specifically justified, within the meaning of the mandatory elements of the judgment, because this does not go well. And if these formalistic elements are fulfilled by the law, then indeed abuse, as we are talking about today, cannot be a basic argument, because the reasoned proposals of the authorities before the court do not mean that the judge is then obliged to assess the existence of legal conditions. So that we are talking about it in some way today, and I think it is extremely harmful, because every violation of the law's rights or any violation of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act is not an abuse, nor is it a basis for the identification of evidence, because, and standards of human rights violations that determine when the trial is fair, when it is not fair, they are very clearly produced. Therefore, this is absolutely not the case for police to abuse or direct the prosecution, because it is not possible to do so systemically, and the police themselves do not bring the acts before the court and also the judicial files, the prosecution's files, in fact, separate the stage of the proposal from the decision-making phase and must both be reasoned, and they are certainly not categories that are flat-rate, abstract. And this is actually what the assessment of whether these authorities have been abused and if the actors of the criminal system were to work arbitrarily, if they were to work without justification, if they were to work without a decision, even though the law, as a state, as a representative of the State, imposes this very clear claim and evidentiary burden on them, where it is also traceable, then they could talk about some systemic abuse, so that we have not heard these readings today or have not heard any evidence that could actually be classified within the framework of legitimate criticism. There was also talk about certain specific police irregularities of certain police officers. I have to say here that in these cases the police are already instituting an internal protective investigation. The Director-General of the Police has ordered supervision, one person has been banned from doing business, the other has received a warning before his resignation, and none of these persons are in the police anymore. However, I will conclude by stopping at the observation recently or in the last period of this preparation for this meeting, regarding Mr Funk. Mr Funk has not been rewarded, Mr Funk has, on my part, been proposed as Director-General of the Police, because I believe that he is a career policeman, that he is a top criminalist, who is also leading the Police through high professional standards throughout the term, as is evident from the very good results of the Slovenian police.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u91	The text is now delivered by the representative of the proposer, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Make it quick. Secretary of State, you were talking about some old cases. Let's go in order: Vaskrsić - 2017. 2017 has decided the ECHR. Kangler - 2017 have fallen last, Štíhec - 2015, Magajna - 2017, Jelinčič - 2015, Bratušek - 2017, Patria - 2017, Jankovic - 2017, Novo mesto, that lady who is thrown out of the apartment - 2017, Škrlec - 2017 and so on, your Minister's keys are therefore new cases, not old cases, the CAP, do not say things that do not hold because you have not convinced the professional public, you have not convinced not New Slovenia, not us, No SD and not pensionists. [[Incomprehensible]] Popov, if you want. Vice, you're talking about the year 2000, you haven't read it, it's been a matter of course since 1991. I have relatively little time, Minister. You sometimes know how to hit a man, it's called hitting a table at the right time. The case is the CAP, and I am grateful to you that I will say, sincerely do what you think is right, but now you have simply gone into a field that does not hold and appear naive. In a field that doesn't hold and you look naive. Specific matters cannot be dealt with in the DZ, as this is not up to you, you are not the President of the National Assembly. He's making these decisions, and today it's been heard by the coalition to talk about the real issues, and I don't know why you're saying this now. Look, Brankovic, this is some kind of public source because the police went to him, yeah, but why did they convince me in 2012 that they couldn't go? Let's say to those who staged the protests. But they kept saying they couldn't, and the organizers couldn't go after you, and they're giving you double standards. You're saying that I didn't give any direction, you know exactly, you know exactly how you can't give direction for a specific case, you even said yourself it would be a crime if you did. Otherwise, I have given many directions, many directions probably in one year most among ministers. Probably, as far as matters such as Maribor and Kangler were concerned, of course they touched him. Look, you mentioned Mr Magajna and you said the court didn't object, yes, but what the court has to do if you lose a hard drive and then you lose a copy. But look, the gentleman who lost it was rewarded, he became the head of the criminal police of the state of Slovenia. But when I was a minister, he asked for relief because he cannot run things in Ljubljana. In my time, he has asked me for relief, he is unable to lead Ljubljana, he has serious obligations. But when you came, he became the general criminal police. But he lost the discs, the hard drives, in his time, his job lost it. The DZ's reputation is lower, look, you don't judge it, you care about the MNZ and the police and so on, and here we will count the results after the election and you will see how much DZ reputation falls, no matter how much. The House Investigation Order, not "barbat", not "colorbat", "copy pasta" with verbal errors, the court makes a "copy pasta" of a police proposal and then dumps it in. I face these cases every day. Says someone's directing someone, they're not checking anything, and they're not high standards at all. That's what the police say. Now you're saying there's no police abuse, let's clear this up, half a minute. If the Constitutional Court has said that the Patria trial was conducted in contravention of Article 28 of the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that no one can be tried and cannot be tried before, and so on, what the police have done, because of an act which is not an offence. So, the police have long before you and before me started handling this case, which is not a crime, the Constitutional Court said. Yeah, well, what do you call it then, if it's not an abuse? Yeah, then what is it? As far as this or the prosecution is concerned, he's directing the police in the five minutes I'm gonna get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u93	So I think that means we want to share time. Before the application, I would like to point out that you can apply with the pressure to turn on the microphone if one of the representatives of the motion for a recommendation and the representative of the Government or representative of the Government wishes to discuss it, and I ask that you also sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case, they will be given the word as the last representative or representative of the Government, then a representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I will only take this opportunity because at the time the replica was on the replica of Mr Gorenak, because I do not want to be misunderstood. When I quoted your statement, I did not say that you were Minister on 31 March 2013, but that the statement was published on the Siol website on 31 March 2013. But something else is much more important. In fact, you said that in the case of Vaskrissić, there was an abuse of the judicial branch of power that, through this case, she abused her position. And I'm saying it's not like that. Also based on your diction and your citation on the Siol website, the Vaskrsić case is not due to the abuse of the judiciary, but is due to legislation. The legislation that allows the creditor to sit on the debtor's property also for 145 euros and that the European Court of Human Rights already understands this part of the legislation as a disproportionate measure and that is why I have also stressed in my debate that it does not seem right for me that all deviations within the judiciary are understood and perceived as a non-human factor where the various thesis tries to prove a systemic conspiracy, but that, above all, we need to understand as the legislative branch of the authorities the perception of deviations within the judicial system, including the plot of the Vaskrsic case, which was or all other similar ones you mentioned, the case of the New City, including the debate that led to these unjust solutions also through the applicable legislation. That was also my point of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u95	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u96	It's the most beautiful hall. Too bad, in the end, there are manipulators who are wasting lies and trying to present to the public that everything is okay, that the Slovenian judicial system is not okay. I'm not talking about you, Comrade Tabakovic, but we're on our way. First thing, mate Matić. So it confuses someone who was in the former system in a party with State Security officials and it's trying to compare it to East Germany. It's completely illogical. The next thing you spoke to the minister before, everything's fine. See, it begins, I have been talking today about systemic errors that foreign authorities or foreign authorities have recognised in the Slovenian judicial system. I started with a theory, the Reebok case, the Mother case, it's a police violence that was not recognized by the Slovenian judicial system, then medical errors, then we come from the left, Lukenda, today three times repeat and the SMC Members, and where we received essentially praise, I commend because Mr. Janša with the team, with Dr. Lovr Sturm began to take the Lukend program and, of course, the results show after years showing up. That's another thing. Mr. Matić, rewinding, if Mr. Janša didn't want to perform the lustration. See, on December 10, 1997, the European Parliament's resolution on totalitarianism 1996 and the law, December 10th, if colleague Matić still hears me, wherever he is, it was Wednesday, to say another day, Wednesday was December 10, 1997, the marriage, so lustration falls. Of course it's falling. If this law were in force, on this side a few people, of course not on this one, but not here in this room, but some people would no longer be present. We are talking about the summit of the former communist system, I am talking about former members of the State Security Service, who do not have a place in normal democratic societies, etc. I was talking about the Kangler case today. There's something else that Dr. Fishič is, that is, a man who the left-hand man trusts most. What did he write in the Kangler case? Some other infringements of the defendant's rights, doubts about the low evidentiary standards for determining hidden investigative measures. Too long and illegal to keep the hearings and their copying, as KNOVS has also found, and their use after the prescribed deadlines have passed, the enforcement of the witness in the search for Frank Kangler's apartment, the suspicion that anonymous letters were created in the direction of the police, the respected minister, and the unaccounted-for executive opinion, now deceased, Lucky Pušnik, who prepared him for the accused and so on, the political justification of the judicial decisions, that is what I have said, the Secretary of State here from the Ministry of Justice, Mr Kangler, is in great danger of returning to politics. This is the judge's ruling. Do you think that's normal? Rejection of defence proposals for the execution of evidence and questioning of witnesses. The case of Mojet. Maybe he's completely into other political options, he's literally going to testify, he wants to testify. And Judge Breda Fibbas, of course, also a former member of the State Security Service, that's all normal with us in Styria, but now she's everywhere in Slovenia, says she won't hear a witness, so we're talking about equality of weapons, because, because she won't know anything new. So she hasn't heard from him yet, and she says she doesn't need to know because she won't know anything. And you think that's normal? Mr Bosnjak, who was Mr Kangler's lawyer, is today a judge at the ECHR. Whether we wait for the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights or we will act in these cases. The immune system doesn't work in this country. Continuing, my colleague Verbič reminded me today of the likely catastrophic judgment coming, the great Senate is considering the removal of legal persons. It's very likely that financial experts are talking about more than a billion dollars in compensation to these people. Are you going to stop the matter or not? [[sign for the end of the debate]] Will you prepare some legislation? Probably not. Mr Stare, you will be relevant when you provide the data, what the KPK said, what you did when you received the money laundering papers, the suspicion of money laundering in the NLB, what you did then and what you did not do. About that, it was your job, and then we'll see if the immune system and the legal state are working. You and the other 95 people who were familiar with the suspicion of money laundering in the NLB. Then we'll see if [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] This country's immune system works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u97	Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u98	Yeah, thanks for saying that again. Now I do not think that this meeting today has contributed to some constructive conclusions as to how we need to change our justice, that there will be no cases as we have seen them. I also often agree with my colleagues from the SDS, for example when considering the Criminal Procedure Act. I'm one of those people that I think should be arranged somehow differently. And I believe that the adoption of such a law is also a place where we can give Members some constructive proposals, some amendments that actually lead to the fact that, I will say, the procedure before the courts is such that the court is optimal and does not lead to some fiascos that we have witnessed to them in the past, even other developed countries are witnesses to them, but I do not want to justify anyone, but I do not think that today's meeting has only led to the finding of a single language to how to solve matters in the future. Now, I have also heard Mr Janš's debate on our mandates, the mandates of the Group of Members of the Modern Centre. I have heard this debate many times before from other SDS-type colleagues, and I will say so. Now, if anyone seems to have a controversial mandate from anyone in this National Assembly, let me remind you that on August 1, 2014, we confirmed the mandates of all Members, and then all Members from the SDS party confirmed all the mandates, so that, I will say, these discussions in this regard, and with the illegality of the mandates, are totally inappropriate. Last but not least, if that were to hold what you're saying, then someone who had an illegal mandate would confirm your mandate. I mean, we can get involved, that's perfectly absurd, what you're saying. Comrade Beznik, I admire you, I will say, this many information that we have received in the debates. Only now, I don't know, maybe sometimes we should focus on each other and check on each other. Today I heard Martin Luther King put certain thesis on the church. I don't know if it's true, but I don't know where it is, whether it's in Atlanta or any other country in America, but I think there's a Martin Luther in Germany 400 years ago. But if we're already saying that I'm operating on certain data, I would suggest that we are as accurate as possible, and not least, that I sometimes "past" one of you, that I was wrong about a word. Well, one of the surprises may also be that I have heard from the Minister that certain things have been done in the Kangler case in the mandate of Mr Gorenak that it has been established, and I will say that there were no irregularities this further throws one bad light at the request of today's meeting. But look, I'm not gonna be surprised. If I mentioned Martin Lutra King earlier, I did find a quote that might be in place today for the conclusion of this session. He says so, and let me conclude with it, but let me only refer to this session: “In the end, we will not remember the words of opposers, but the silence of our friends.” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u99	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u100	Thank you so much for the president's words. I'm not going to say hello again, considering there's a handful of us in here. First of all, I must admit that I am quite satisfied in some way that I am somehow in the composition of the SMC Group, which is internally very democratic. For this reason, I also allow myself certain comments. Whether my fellow Members like it or not, I'm just going through it. But this is a reflection of democracy and it is also right to discuss it at this National Assembly and also on the home committees. It was somehow here exposed to the legislative branch of power now or in the debate in concrete terms as today we are interfering with the autonomous branch of power, in which case the judiciary knows the authorities. See, the fact is that some of the cases that have been exposed to debates and proposals themselves, I myself have somehow broadened and have made a well-meaning comment that I am much more concerned with the cases that have resulted in not so much back-up mass damage to citizens and citizens. I will not re-explain which cases have indeed been committed in the past by decisions of the courts, which have also been concluded. But as a result, many of those participants had so - called personal ruin of life, many lost their real estate, and in the final stage they were known for their health. For this reason, I think it is right to point out such things so that in the future as few such events as possible would not happen. I must also say to the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Justice, on good faith, that I had at least a little substantive debate because you said, "There was no substantive debate today at all." Discussions as they have today have been about a bank hole, as you know, I am very much pleased and will increasingly expose economic crime, financial crime at every opportunity. Now either the executive branch of power and the judicial branch of authority realizes that this is extremely painful, especially because ultimately taxpayers' accounts are being issued. And I think that it is one of the key duties of Members to give this a prompt warning. Talking about when the bank hole came into being, I think it's really just a politically-popular rhetoric that doesn't matter at all at the end of the day. It is important that everyone, all activities no longer be detected, because I think this case is already a "passe," and the Secretary of State has said nicely, in hundreds of motions, but then here is the question of where the law enforcement authorities are, that then it is also happening in the courts. We have very clear information, two matters are decided, and we know what will follow, given that we have regular and extraordinary legal remedies. But it is essential in this respect that all actors who are legally competent not to happen and that it will not happen due to an interruption of proceedings or, above all, the so-called "i". the legal voids will be called, all of this will go wrong. And that is what I think our key mission is, and we still have to work on. At the end of the speech, however, it was said by representatives of the executive branch that any such debate in the National Assembly had a negative impact on the so-called ‘State Council’. the reputation of the judicial branch of power. Here I have to admit that I am very far away from this because I do not agree with it. Those of us who were on the Justice Home Committee today were very interesting and I allowed myself a brief comment. The reality is that the leadership of the judiciary has presented [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] and also talked about how it is in this so-called the professional public and all that is involved, very good opinion, as far as the judicial branch of power is concerned. Interestingly, though, it is such a big step between opinions among people. It is said that something simply goes wrong here, because the fact is that each judgment has an interesting title “Court in the Name of the People” and the fact is that we are [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] objective in these things. So there'll be an opportunity, I'm sure. Thanks for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u101	Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Make it quick. Mr Tabaković, all you know is that, in that case, a judge, if he thinks there's something wrong with the law, he can stop the proceedings and go to the Constitutional Court, and he didn't do it. That's what we need to know. Otherwise, Minister, why are you naive and why the police direct the prosecution and not the other way around? Just an example, quickly in 2012, seized computer equipment Kovacič, Maribor, NKBM. We both know how to review it, if you don't know, look, I know, with keywords. And because the criminals gave the key words “Kovačič, Janša”, hey, Dnevnik has already published Janša's deal with Kovacic in a few days, he's guilty, but he doesn't. However, because they did not give the key word “Kovačič, Pahor” there was nothing written about it. Did the D.A. know about this? He didn't know. He didn't know. But when Kovačič answered and said, "Wait a minute, but I communicated with Pahor more than Janša, and everything was quiet." So who's directing whom? The prosecution's criminals. That's right. The law says otherwise. Look, this is what I'm talking about. If you don't put the keywords in there, it didn't happen. It is I, nod, Secretary of State, not "paint" her Minister. [[…]] She's still sometimes dizzy by the cord of correctness and honesty, but don't spoil it. Let's move on. The purpose of today's debate was relatively clear, and I am pleased that some coalition Members have also come to realize this. Is it fair and unfair that someone for 250 Euro technical checks Kranj gets 3 years in prison, unconditional. At the same time, someone who's spent a million and a half damages to Inpol gets two years probationary. So we have first-class and second, we have. Our aim was to draw attention to the decisions of the judiciary in the case of Mr Türk, who received EUR 1500 of illegal donations for the elections and received a reminder from the donor. At the same time, you have Mr Fištrovec, who was given 100 euros by a company, according to the same law, the same law was broken, and this society received 5,000 euros in fines. Is that fair? It's not fair. Let's leave the law. But it's not fair. Our aim was to draw attention to the Vaskrsić case or more, the one in the New Town that happened 10 days ago, where some women are selling apartments in the bloc because it owes 350 euros. At the same time, the same system for Jankovic’s company or those companies will then write off 16 million. We write down 16 million, but for 350 euros a woman, a pop on the road. Well, she didn't go on the road because I told her myself that I would pay for that money just so she wouldn't go on the road. Well, then they withdrew the execution. When she gets here, I don't know. Our intention was to point out that the courts, by law, are investigating Kangler on a proposal from the D.A., that for a 35-year-old tractor must prove where he bought it and where he got the money for it. Tell me when the Slovenian courts asked where three billion is. And did these courts ask Jankovic anything? Nothing. On the contrary. Kangler was tried with more than two years of old hearings made, by the way, during your golden director. While Jankovic had the same evidence destroyed in the same way. Do we have first-class and second-class? Yes, we do. So that's our purpose. But if you're a father-in-law, you kick a neighbor's ass and you hurt him physically, I mean your Minister Klemenčič. Nothing. You tell the injured man, you know what, you'll be in the grave long before the court sentences me. This is the reality of our case. My husband is 87 years old. Me? Nothing's happened yet. So we have first-class, second-class? Yes, we do. I want a repeat of this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-10-11-SDZ7-Izredna-49.ana.u103	I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a recommendation. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9. 12. 2009 The National Assembly notes that the procedure for the consideration of the proposal has been completed I hereby conclude this agenda item and also 49. It's an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I think that, today, by action in the National Assembly, in our case, this means, above all, by speaking, we have proved that we know how to do something smart and that we do not know what to leave behind. Good night!
