ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Anja Bah Žibert, Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer until 13:00, Erika Dekleva, Nada Brinovšek, Bojan Podkrodšek, Dr. Anže Logar, Matjaž Han from 13:00 to 18:00, Jožef Horvat, Franz Laj, Dr. Laszlo Göncz until 13:00, Primož Hainz until 13:00, Danilo Anton Ranc from 14 till 18:00, Zvonko Lah to 16:00, Franz Jurša and Matjaž Hanžek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Proposal for a Law on amendments and amendments to the Public Finance Balance Act, abbreviated procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the MEPs. Alenka Bratušek and Dr. Miriam Bon Klanjšček. The bill is at the 33rd session of the 31st session. 1. 2017 treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. After the discussion, the committee did not adopt the articles of the bill and the second consideration of the draft law was concluded at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and honourable Members, welcome! This time we present a position for the Public Finance Balance Act, the so-called ZUJF, which always raises a lot of dust, and yet you do have it in a way that all customers do. This time, the proponents with the so-called ZUJF wanted the reconciliation of pensions in accordance with Articles 105, 106, 107 of the ZPIZ-2 and the payment of the annual allowance in 2017 in accordance with the provisions of Article 95 of the ZPIZ-2. The law on the financial home committee, unfortunately, has not received support and we will not vote on it today. In the law, the proposed harmonisation of pensions means only their maintenance at real value. We're talking about coordination when the essence is already laid down in the basic law, that's in PIZ-2. At the time of the biggest crisis, coordination was necessary, and then, as an intervention law, he reached into the area of pensions, including the preservation of the financial sovereignty of the State, which was the only possible solution. In recent years, however, we have heard a lot about economic growth, about how everything is fine and great in the country, about how the revenue in the budget is increasing, about how the country is flowing between milk and honey, and, of course, it is not clear that the coalition and the Government of the bill in question do not support it. It is particularly difficult to understand that, for example, the Government does not have a problem with the recapitalisation of the DUTB of EUR 50 million due to the failure of the Factor Bank and Probank; it has no problem with the recapitalisation of SDH of EUR 200 million; it has a problem with the need to give pensioners what they actually belong to under the existing law. Such a government coalition's attitude is, of course, unacceptable. Finally, the coalition had no problems with 110 million euros for 160 thousand public officials, and more than apparently has problems with 42 million for more than 600,000 pensioners. We wonder if, in this case, there is no reserve with transfers in the budget, which the Minister has so much liked to talk about. In this case, you have in some way referred to the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, the fiscal rule. I repeat, for something that actually belongs to the pensioner according to the PIZ-2. The Slovenian Democratic Parties supported the proposed law on the home committee, which would at least slightly improve the situation of pensioners. Unfortunately, the proposal for a law was not supported by coalition parties, so the law on the Home Finance Committee also closed, which means that we will not vote on it today. More than 600,000 people who would be able to make a slight improvement in their daily lives with the proposed amendment, but because of yours, I cannot say otherwise, excuses and principles will not receive it. Respectable coalition, it's high time that you stop looking for excuses and stop pretending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u3	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, Members and Members, I wish you a lovely day! We have not already supported the draft law in the Desus Group on the Home Finance Committee. The assumptions that are crucial to rejecting the law are that we have a fiscal rule and all the accompanying acts that define the budgetary framework. We resent the proposaler, who is a budgetary know-it-all, for not sticking to her proposal for procedural assumptions on budgeting. Of course, I can't help but commenting on another important and substantive reason in the Desus Group on why Member Desus of the proposal was already opposed to the meeting of his mother's working body. We are all familiar with the commitment of the pensioner, which he gave to the coalition itself in December. It was clearly and loudly said that the annual allowance would be paid to all pensioners, including those who have a pension higher than 750 euros. In view of the release of other measures taken as a result of the emergency after-suspension during the financial crisis, the time has come for pensioners to also receive more positive economic growth trends. This communication was also understood by the Finance Minister, who must now, of course, find a way or path within the financial capacity of both the pension fund and the state Treasury to cover this expenditure. I believe the minister will certainly do this task. An additional EUR 40 million is agreed for the annual allowance according to availability and the ZPIZ balance and the state budget should be seen where these funds will be made available and by what key. Once again, the annual allowance will be paid to all pensioners in July. As regards the harmonisation of pensions, this proposal is, in fact, a somewhat risky pre-election promise. In short, your proposal could quickly get a bitter taste. If, at the end of this month, when the Statistical Office publishes official data on wage and inflation growth, creating a formula for regular reconciliation of pensions, it turns out that pensions should be harmonised for less than at the end of January. Indeed, on the basis of the initial estimates or if you want to guess, regular harmonisation would amount to 1.2%. The difference between the extent to which pensions have already been harmonised this year and what you are proposing to the Members is insignificant, is a variation of 0.05%. That's 30 cents on an average old-age pension. So your candy has a slightly bitter taste. It's not nice, but let me add that it's just you, Mrs Bratusek, that you've been playing quite populism lately on maps of the deprivation of pensioners and you're reading to Desus that we didn't do anything, but there was a time when you had scissors and canvas in your hands, both at the time of your office at the Ministry of Finance and at the time when you were Prime Minister, but then you cut a different cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u5	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone, even on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, which we have discussed on the Committee, has been given an extensive debate, including on our part. In general, we can note that the Public Finance Balance Act, as adopted at the time of the economic and financial crisis, does not, in fact, contain almost a majority of the provisions that were incorporated into the law at the time. It is true, however, that there is still a limitation on the expenditure of the pension fund and thus the prevention of regular coordination of pensions. It should be added, however, that the harmonisation of pensions and the payment of the annual allowance is the content of both the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Budget Enforcement Act. Therefore, appropriate additions to the proposed law were also needed. Regrettably, these supplements were not adopted in the context of the treatment of the parent body. I supported them myself, because the fact is that the conditions will be met so that pensions can be coordinated, because from the data that we can also get from the Ministry of Finance, we find that in January, government revenues have increased by almost 75 million euros and are almost 6% higher than in January last year. As a result of excise duties, an increase of 70 % of the revenue and value added tax by 20 % and from contributions to the pension allowance by 7 %. These are the arguments that led me to add my support to this law on the committee. Given that the law on the committee did not receive support, however, it is precisely on the basis of this data and, last but not least, that the situation of pensioners is particularly difficult and very many live below the poverty threshold, over 106 000 receiving a pension below 500 euros, and the poverty threshold is estimated at 612 euros, a state of concern. A particularly worrying situation is when someone receiving 470 euros in pension needs more demanding care in an elderly citizen's home and it costs, say, about 800 euros. And how exactly can you bridge that difference when you don't achieve censorship, which is, say, €480 for a protective supplement? Therefore, regular harmonisation of pensions is essential to reduce these differences and, of course, to raise the minimum pension at least to the level of poverty, €612. These are the measures by which we will certainly successfully reach out to poverty, which is growing in Slovenia, as already 400,000 people are dealing with poverty. And if we're talking about sources. The revenues I have previously presented are already seen in terms of economic growth and there are certainly many reserves still in the common public procurement, where very much could be saved if we carried out a centralised procurement method. Of course it is also necessary to tax transfers in tax havens with at least 25%. We can do this in a very short time. Finally, it is absolutely necessary to revise sales of Slovenian companies and banks that have actually been sold far below book value. Finally, the sale of Slovenian companies and banks and the establishment of a demographic fund or pension fund should be stopped as soon as possible, which will also provide young generations with a decent pension there in 2035. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President, and a nice greeting to everyone! The United Left supports all proposals for the benefit of pensioners, in particular those which go for the benefit of low-income pensioners. We have therefore proposed amendments to the budget in November to unfreeze pensions and social benefits. I especially expose social benefits in this place because this shows the interests of whose government works. According to government policy, for the President of the Government, politicians, high officials and 10% of the best-paid savings is over. In the case of the unemployed and socially disadvantaged, however, the Government continues its policy of tightening the belt. This year, the Prime Minister will have EUR 2 000 100 higher net income than in 2015, and on the other hand, children's documents, the income of unemployed parents, parental allowances and so on are still frozen. Once again, this law before us has proved to be a harmful fiscal rule and how it can be manipulated. When we proposed regular reconciliation of pensions last November in the United Left, our proposal was rejected by the coalition and pensions were aligned by 1.15%. At the time, the government claimed that the additional euro for pensions would constitute a violation of the fiscal rule. Just a month later, the same government submitted its novelty of the pension law, which envisions 4 million new expenditures. So obviously the fiscal rule applies only to the opposition but not to the coalition. When voting on the committee, it was very quickly clear that the law would not be adopted because it was opposed by the coalition. Yet, he was useful. It's useful because he showed the duality of the political class. When opposition parties are zealous for pensioners when they are in the government, the pensioners are quickly forgotten. Thus, for example, members of the SDS on the committee strongly supported this law, but at the same time, their government in 2012 anti-constitutionally reduced the pensions of more than 26,000 pensioners. Or if we go to the mandate of the first Janša government, we see that they have abolished the tax on paid salaries, which was compensation for the loss of employers' contributions to the pension register. In the ZL, we want to be on the clear side of one more thing – if we want better pensions, we need to increase the income of the pension fund, otherwise it's not going to work. The entire right opposition is working the other way around – they advocate the introduction of the so-called social hat and social slipper. If these two proposals had been introduced, supported by the entire right-wing opposition with the proponents of this law, the social treasury and the budget would have lost as much as €826 million per year. This would cost the budget, according to the Ministry, a quarter of the income. It just doesn't work. I repeat, if we want better pensions, we must face the need to increase budget revenues. The first step we take in the United Left is to raise employers' contributions at least to the 1996 level. As a result of the reduction, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has lost as much as EUR 12 billion between 1996 and 2014, and the original pension is low. Of course, it is necessary to introduce a solidarity benefit also for long-term care, otherwise insurance companies will simply transfer the supplementary insurance system from healthcare to long-term care. Finally, I would just like to repeat when we propose proposals for higher pensions, we call on all the parties in the National Assembly to have before us how we will increase our income in the pension register, because, unfortunately, little or empty demagogies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u10	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for the amendment of the Public Finance Balance Act allows for regular harmonisation of pensions and full payment of the annual supplement under the SPIZ-2. Of course, at the very beginning of the debate on such a proposal, there are quick concerns about money and budgetary sustainability. In this area, however, the lack of consistency of the government coalition has been evident in recent months. The Government's excuses that there is no way to find funds for the coordination of pensions do not hold serious judgment. Recently, we have seen quite a few cases in which the Government has unplannedly allowed the simplification of the state budget. I should only point out the recapitalisation of SDH and DUTB of EUR 250 million. Disruption of unions, distribution of candy in the form of 2 January and so on, could still be listed. Slovenian pensioners find it difficult to understand, with all these budget breaks, that it is not possible for them to re-establish the coordination of pensions, which is of a regular nature, but is not being implemented. The long-term sustainability of the pension system and the decent life of Slovenian pensioners are based primarily on a competitive business environment, modernisation of the pension system and an increase in the number of births. There will be more jobs than the business environment, and we will be able to spend more time in the fall of life. The ratio between pensioners and employees is approaching dangerously one-to-one ratio. Therefore, tax relief, bureaucratic simplification and opening up the economy to foreign investments are essential in Slovenia. It is also essential to improve the conditions for couples to make decisions about a new life in order to improve the relationship between employees and pensioners. Low fertility in Slovenia is one of the most worrying facts we face. With us, 10,000 children are born too few each year. If we do not correct these trends, we will lose out on the future. That is why we have proposed a package of laws to improve the situation of our children and families. It is worrying that the Government is delaying the modernisation of the pension system, which requires reality from us. The formation of the demographic fund only means the dumping of sand into the eyes. However, the government has not yet presented a solution to real pension structural issues with all its apparatus. Slovenian citizens have clearly heard loud promises about thousands of euros in pensions that have gone to waste. Today, when we talk only about regular coordination and the payment of the annual allowance, we have the opportunity to improve the situation of Slovenian pensioners at least a little bit, so we will support the Christian Democrats' proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u11	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u12	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law that would regulate the coordination of pensions and pension regresses, not a populist pension raise of 8%, 10%, and this is not a populism payout of the so-called pensioner regression, but simply what the basic STIZ provides. Unfortunately, the law has ended its way on the committee. There are two parties, SMC and Desus, and I think it's right to say it out loud several times. And this is Desus, who in his own name is a new pensioner and a struggle for pensioners. The law is far from populist, it is a minimum of higher coordination and it is a matter of paying the regression for pensioners to get what the basic STIZ provides for them. But no, it's too much for Desus and SMC. The crisis has deeply cut into Slovenian society, including pensioners' incomes. Pensioners are paying a high price and I think we should all be grateful for that. Dear colleague from Desus, you have a billion more in your budget today than our government, in which, by the way, you were sitting with colleagues from Desus. In fact, Desus has been making the fate of pensioners in Slovenia for 15 years. When it goes up, of course, they are responsible for it when it goes down or when it takes measures to lower it, and all other partners in the government are responsible. Pensioners are not some sort of market niche with which any party can barant, at least Desus. This year's economic growth is expected to be 3%, and I think it's time to put our pensions back on track. Nothing extraordinary, no extraordinary alignment would be allowed under this law. If we wanted to be populist, of course we could also do this, but no, we want them to simply return within the legal framework laid down by the system law, this is the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, and that no one takes credit for why pensions are a little less aligned in one year. The pensioners have grown what they get every month. This is not a transfer of the state or transfer of one party to the government, but the pensioners produced it themselves. We can listen to a fiscal rule, a framework, the government has proposed such a framework, and may also have proposed a change. You found 50 million dollars for public servants regardless of the fiscal framework overnight, and that's the same thing. 50 million, if calculated, means EUR 312 per public servant. Do you have any idea how much $42 million is for every pensioner? 70 euros. And according to your retirement, they're not worth it, or they don't deserve it. If you have found EUR 50 million for public servants, and it is right that you are, you must also find it for pensioners. DUTB and SDH receive a gift of €250 million at the end of the year. In one swing, at a government meeting. And you don't. Once again, pensioners are not a market niche, but they are an equal part of our society and deserve to be treated as such. Once again, he thanks them for being willing to share the burden of the crisis in the crisis, as far as I can tell, most of all, but when we have economic growth with which we want to boast, it would be right to return our pensions to normal frameworks. And that's all we'd do with this marriage. Unfortunately, it's ending today, but I'm predicting he'll be reinstated immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u13	The word shall be given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Vojka Shergan for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are concluding the procedure of the Public Finance Balance Act proposed by two Members. We certainly understand the purpose that both Members wish to follow. This was to provide as much money as possible for pensioners. But we cannot agree with the way we would do it. However, it should be noted that in this case it is not a prestigious fight. This is a procedure laid down under the implementing law on fiscal rules. The solutions proposed are contrary to the Fiscal Framework Decision, as they raise expenditure higher than those provided for by the Decree. Thus, the solutions are contrary to the fiscal rule. On the basis of the fiscal rule, the possibility of growth of total expenditure is limited. Despite the fact that higher revenues from PPIZ and lower than the budget in the PPIZ are, it is not possible to raise expenditure. 2012 pensions were not harmonised. 2013 by 0,1 %. Only in 2016 did we reconcile pensions by 1.15%. Over the whole year, they coordinated by 1.1% in 2016 and by 1.15 more in January 2017, meaning that we coordinated them by 2.25% in two years. As it allows for the implementation of the budget. As regards 2018, it should be said that regular coordination of pensions is also envisaged. In view of the payments of the annual allowance or so-called regression, it should be said that this will be paid in July, although there is now a solution to the payment of pensions of up to €750, but we intend to correct it in such a way that all pensioners receive an annual allowance or regress, as we are aware of the situation of pensioners. It is therefore also in the process of amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which will allow for the raising of minimum pensions. We are certainly going against all vulnerable groups, with a range of social legislation measures for 2017 and 2018 that will make life easier for people with the lowest income. Therefore, members of the coalition and the Government have already adopted these measures. As we say, before the annual allowance is paid, we will arrange for the annual allowances to be paid for all pensioners. How we do this depends on what impact it will have on the pension fund and the budget. This will certainly be the impact of more employees, more economic growth. We will certainly do so according to a procedure which is in accordance with the fiscal rule. And once again, I would like to point out that pensions were harmonised by 2.25% in a good year. Retired slowly, but we continue to raise our pensions. And we'll continue with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u15	We have concluded by presenting the views of the parliamentary groups. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure in the draft law is terminated. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on personal assistance within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Ivo Dimic. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to Mrs Ivi Dimic's representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u16	Dear President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! With the Personal Assistance Act, I am convinced that we are all doing what we are sent to this National Assembly, good and useful work for our citizens, for those who actually need assistance in the form of personal assistants. I am pleased that this law, which actually brings some life to the disabled, to those who may in fact be forgotten or pushed to the brink, is a possibility of greater inclusion in society and a greater dignity of life. I therefore thank you for your cooperation, all of you Members of the Group, to all the parties and, of course, also to the representatives of the State Council, that they supported the law and also to all the disabled organisations that encouraged us to take this step in the New Slovenia Group and to prepare the law that is actually intended for them. Today's debate will also take place on amendments. I look forward to today's debate and, of course, I also count on your continued support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u17	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 35th meeting, on 1 February, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act submitted by the Group of Members and Members to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption by a first-signed colleague, Dimic. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, the Law and Legal Service, the State Council, the Community of Centres for Social Work, the National Council of Disabled Organizations, the Social Chambers of Slovenia, the Institute for Social Protection, the Council for Disabled Persons, the Department of Health Insurance and the State Secretary of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government participated in the work of the Committee. We also invited virtually all representatives of representative disability organisations to the meeting. The legislative and legal services of the National Assembly have examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and have prepared comments which have been taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which, of course, supports the proposal of the law. In general, it was found that the law has broad support both by decision makers and by users, which is essential, and of course also by professions. In particular, it has been pointed out that the proposal for a law, in view of all the previous failed formal attempts to receive all of it, has been a very significant gain for the disabled since 2010. The country thus assumes responsibility and the obligation to treat the most vulnerable groups equally. The implementation of measures to ensure the right to personal assistance, which is a complementary right, must, however, be the presumptive inclusion of different institutions at national and local level, NGOs, users and operators, who must cooperate with each other in their efforts to achieve what is also enshrined in the law. As you have heard, the proposaler Iva Dimic also presented the bill on the committee itself and focused on users who live or wish to live in a separate or joint household outside of full-day institutional care. In its opinion, in its presentation, which is essential, the Government points out that the proposal supports the law. Since 2009, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been co-financed by personal assistance programmes in the form of funding or co-financing for the employment of personal assistants. If I focus briefly on the debate, which is essential, from the work of the committee itself. With regard to the proposal for a law, the view was expressed that the proposal for a law was necessary, and this was pointed out by all the debaters, to support and to give a nice message to the Slovenian disabled by adopting it. In principle, all the discussers supported and supported the bill and believe that they still support it. It was also pointed out that for some groups of persons with disabilities, the conditions for eligibility to personal assistance are somewhat inadequate and that some users are also excluded from the beneficiary group. And what is now essential, with the amendment or amendment to the 9th Article defining the communication supplement, was proposed to sensoryly obstructed users, even if they do not meet the requirement of the necessary assistance, for a minimum of 30 hours, and will be over 65 years of age, as set out in Article 7, and will meet the other conditions required, the Personal Assistance Committees of 7 hours per week and may also choose a monetary compensation. It was further stressed that it is right for personal assistants to receive persons with developmental disabilities, although most of them will still need a legal representative. We are aware that there is a difficult work to be done by the Commission at the Centre for Social Work, and the choice of a personal assistant will also be required. Some of us felt that a trial period for personal assistants would also be necessary, and the user must also have a good relationship with the assistant. The status of family helpers will also need to be regulated, and the question is also what will happen to the long-term supply law, and we know what is going to happen to the long-term care law. Nevertheless, all agreed to support the proposal. The Committee further adopted a number of amendments and voted and also adopted all the articles of the draft law in full. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of a bill incorporating all the amendments adopted is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of the report that I have tried to present briefly to you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u19	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Martini Vuk, for an introductory explanation of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On 2 April this year, it will be nine years since Slovenia ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the fundamental purpose of which is to enable persons with disabilities to live in an inclusive and accessible society. This is a company that enables all to cooperate actively and where persons with disabilities are ensured that they have the same access as others to the physical environment, transport, information and communication technologies and systems, and goods and services. Such a company also enables the implementation of all other provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, such as the right to independent life, including personal assistance, the right to inclusive education and lifelong learning and the provision of personal mobility. It also means ensuring the right to work in the labour market and in the working environment, which is inclusive and accessible to persons with disabilities, the right to an adequate standard of living and social security and, last but not least, the right to participate in cultural life, recreation, leisure activities and sports. The Republic of Slovenia has done much in the last decade to ensure accessibility of the built environment and information and employment of people with disabilities. In the National Assembly, a number of regulations were adopted to highlight only two of the workarounds of our ministry. The first is the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, whose main purpose is to prevent and eliminate discrimination against persons with disabilities. The law thus allows the co-financing of technical devices and the processing of cars. Another important law is the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, which introduces quotas for the employment of persons with disabilities, employment in protected jobs, employment centres and disabled companies. In recent years, the number of people with disabilities has increased and is increasing. The government also adopted two action programmes for disabled persons, the first for the period 2007 to 2013 and the second for the period 2014 to 2021. We are aware that in order to participate in society and ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities, all the necessary assistance must be provided in all those activities which they cannot carry out on their own because of their handicaps, and they need them at home and outside their homes every day to live independently and equally. And one of the necessary ways to achieve this is through personal assistance. The Personal Assistance Act has been in various stages of preparation for more than 10 years. We have prepared it both in our ministry and in the framework of civil society. The law before you also comes from these drafts. Although we do not yet have a system law, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been project co-financed by personal assistance since 2009, initially through the public works of the Employment Office and then through the public calls of the Ministry. Currently, a four-year project is under way, from which we co-finance 353 personal assistants and assistants, and more than a thousand users and users are included in the programmes. The invitation to tender shall expire at the end of 2018, which also coincides with the proposed date of application of the Personal Assistance Act. As already stated in the first debate on the proposal for a law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal for a law. On the contrary, the area of personal assistance is of the utmost importance for the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities and their independent lives and their inclusion in society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u21	Since the National Assembly held a general debate at its 25th meeting on the proposal for a law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have tabled several amendments to the Personal Assistance Act in the United Left, and this is the first of them, so allow me to walk through all these amendments in this place and present the main solutions that we are introducing with them. Article 7 is the essence of this law because it determines who will have the right to personal assistance. The solution that we have on the table at this time is, in our view, too narrow and criminal. The applicants drew a line between two groups of disabled persons. The first group will be guaranteed the right to personal assistance, and then there will be another group that will continue to depend on the assistance of disabled societies. The applicants also drew a border between the two categories of workers exercising personal assistance. The first group will be personal assistants, fully paid from the budget and will be subject to a collective agreement. However, the second group will be personal assistants who will continue to receive only a partial subsidy and will not be subject to collective agreements. And here I must say that in the United Left, we will not agree that people with disabilities over 65 years of age or who need less than 30 hours of assistance will continue to be left to ad hoc social programmes. And we also do not agree that a group of personal assistants will continue to be in a penal position. For such differences and for such discrimination, if you want, we have no valid reason. The only reason he's hiding out here in the back is because he's shagging. Budget sprawling, and this for one of the most vulnerable groups in Slovenian society. Aid for people with disabilities for the Slovenian political class is simply not a priority. This is not just a normative statement. There are at least two facts behind it. Firstly, the legislation in question has been in preparation for almost 10 years, but personal assistants are not yet guaranteed a right. Remember how quickly this Parliament went to adopt special legislation for Magna Steyr. There was no problem. One month of cok pok and it's ad acta. Personal assistants have been tortured and clutched for 10 years. Second, the Government for Personal Assistance allocates only €3.1 million of budgetary resources. If I say otherwise, how much money is that? The government for personal assistance spends less money in one year than it will spend for one year of NATO operations in Latvia in which it will bivacue and provoke Russia 50 Slovenian soldiers. On the other hand, we have over a thousand users of personal assistants, almost 400 personal assistants who could use these funds more strongly. We're all proposing five amendments. The amendment to Article 7 to this article, which is currently under discussion, extends the range of beneficiaries of personal assistance to all persons with disabilities who need this personal assistance and who want it. The amendment to Article 26 would allow persons with disabilities who will receive personal assistance to fully maintain the allowance for assistance and service, as it is intended to be new in the event of a personal assistance benefit, departure or departure at least in half. Then there is the set of amendments to Articles 10, 11 and 12, which prohibit the criminal employment of personal assistants. If I can afford a little explanation for all the amendments I just made. First of all, this concrete amendment, which removes the age limit of 65 years and at the same time removes the threshold of 30 hours per week. We propose that the right to personal assistance become the universal right of all persons with disabilities. The threshold of 30 hours is, in fact, completely arbitrary, as I said before, exclusively from the position of spatter in the disabled. A large majority of current users would remain dry with such a threshold. If we go to the data of the Institute for Social Protection in 2015, only 177 out of 125 users received over 30 hours of personal assistance, the average user receives some in 12 hours per week. It is said that this law will leave 80% of the disabled at risk because they fall under this inanimate, not even the harsh threshold of 30 hours of personal assistance. Not so much a different story is considered a age limit of 65 years. Once again, I will remain in the data of the Social Protection Institute, after which 27% of current users of personal assistance are over 65 years of age. So we have a proposal on the table that eliminates one quarter of the disabled. If I add to this the final thought of my debate, at the moment, I stress this once again, and I am likely to say it, from the budget for personal assistance, it devotes 3.1 million euros a year. From a budgetary point of view, this is a change. This Parliament, for example, spends $4 million on its operations, if I am not mistaken. The proposer submitted an assessment that under the new Personal Assistance Act we would spend 8 million euros. In order for universal personal assistance – we will draw up all the arbitrary restrictions on age and 30 hours a week and so on – we will need between €10m and €12m, which is still a minimum, in terms of budget. At the same time, this law will chart this area for the next few years or, in view of how things have been in the past, for a large number of years. It will serve and function as an alibi for every government that will come to say: "Yes, but the area of personal assistance is arranged because we have a marriage, because everything is fine, we will not touch it and we will not open it." This will, in fact, be some kind of tribute and argument to which governments will refer, that they will do nothing to improve their personal assistance. If not for another reason, because of this argument and because of this kind of political dynamic that resides in our governments and in our Parliament, it is imperative that we establish a universal right to personal assistance, because those people whom we will cut away from the right to personal assistance in this treatment, if we do, I hope that our amendment will be accepted, will continue to be cut off from personal assistance for the next 10, 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u23	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues, including all the citizens accompanying this meeting! I have already said many times, but I think it is not wrong if I repeat that it goes here, despite the fact that the law has some shortcomings for the historic adoption of the Personal Assistance Act, with which we will realize at least some of the commitments to which the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities binds us. Indeed, the Republic of Slovenia has many rules governing the rights of persons with disabilities, including the rights of children with special needs, much is done and much remains to be done. I think it's necessary for the law to be relatively fine. It will continue to be necessary when the law enters into force, and I hope that in practice it will not be difficult to implement it. Let's just say, just one question, what's going to happen to the funds that have so far been earmarked from FIHO for personal assistance. Full funding is now envisaged from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Some questions will remain open, but we can no longer wait in the global world for this law. I fully agree with the NSI Group that it has tabled it, or I am a little disappointed that now only one representative represents the opinion of Nsi honourably, and yet it does not listen to me, here it is, and for others it is very clear how much obedience to the rights of those who need wider community assistance is indeed. We must not forget what this marriage is all about. This is personal assistance, which is one of the stronger areas of social assistance regulation for those in need of this assistance, primarily designed to enable those in motion to carry out their life functions, so that they can live normally at all, so that they can participate in society and carry out their life functions. Now we've done it in marriage so it's for other groups. We know how the law-making process went. There was this law before. We know which groups of people with disabilities, when draft laws existed, opposed this law, wanted something more to be included in this law. This was also included in 9. Article, communication supplement. I think it's time we took the case. As for the matter, I see that interest in the United Left has now become apparent with the debate on this subject. [[…]] What about the United Left Amendment – how has it been said? Universal assistant. What's that? Am I really interested in going beyond all the provisions we have on family helpers, on partial compensation for lost income in children, and on the whole set of rights we have? They have to be upgraded, but we already have a lot of things to define here what they need. This is something that would go beyond the purpose of this law and would also be contrary to or covered by legislation that already exists. It's nice to say, uh, the universal right to an assistant, to give everything they need. Look, I'm the first one to do this. Here, too, my child is not included in this law because he is not yet 18 years old, but is not the purpose of the law, this law, to regulate the rights of children with special needs. I say, it's nice to say, yes, we will give everything, the right to universal affection I also have this notion – the universal right to personal assistance, but in this law we cannot arrange this in this way, because neither is this purpose. [[...]] A young colleague with revolutionary ideas who will make things right quickly, I understand his desire to make these things as wide as possible, but we have other laws that regulate this area. Yeah, we're gonna have to say something about the Long-Term Care Act. Also about helping, for example, parents who have children with special needs at home and care for them after 18 years, what happens to family helpers who now have the same children are not children of age but who are physically disabled, are mentally affected, whatever, are still with parents, parents are getting older, these children are getting older, they have their diseases, they have problems that are only getting worse, and parents have less and less power to actually care for these people with special needs. And these are things that will have to be regulated in long-term care. I have already said, and I hope that the Ministry of Health is listening to me, literally, I am waiting for a deadline to expire, as announced, that the law on long-term care should be ready for public debate, but when this deadline expires, I will always, whenever I have the opportunity, recall and ask the Ministry of Health and the newly established Directorate for Long-term Care to present the text of the law on long-term care. Pika. We've been waiting a long time for this marriage. And this law is absolutely necessary. This law will solve the issues that the United Left is also trying to resolve with this amendment. I think that this is an area where we will also be able to confront and regulate things so that as many people as possible who actually need help, whether disabled, children with special needs or their parents, I have a lot to do with such parents who have these children for the rest of their lives, do not let them go, at the end of the day, it is also cheaper for the country to have these children with us instead of having them in an institution where they are substantially more paid by society for, but in the end we cannot give them away because we love them, but we always care more about them. And this is also one area that will be regulated within the framework of long-term care. We're expecting results here. In view of this finding, how is everything terrible now and in the country when we adopt this law, nothing will be done, and I ask: Why are disabled organizations satisfied with this law? We have had many representatives of disability organisations on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, and with some exceptions, with which we have also tried to listen further with the amendments, including the amendment tabled after the Committee on Social Affairs, everyone is satisfied, most of them are satisfied. They too agree that this is a historic event — the adoption of this law. Yeah, she had comments on the Law-Legal Service, yeah, there are some things that might be better arranged, but still, it's time for this law to come into force. Disability organisations agree with him. It was full of representatives of these organisations, very many of these representatives and members of these organisations, and I personally know and work with them and they all just thanked me. I don't understand the point of view then, yes, and now it's all wrong because we're going to adopt this law. It's not wrong. It is time for us to adopt it, as I said, by resolving matters that are not regulated in this law in another legislation, but, it is important that at least this group to which the law applies will finally receive stable funding, which will be the basis of this law, so that the financing already under way through projects and calls for proposals will not be regulated, but that it will be provided in law, as we will adopt it today or if a third treatment is needed. It's time to accept it. And it is important that most disabled organisations, most of those who will be users of this law, agree with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u25	Replica, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. The previous debate was deliberately misinterpreted by our amendment. With the amendment to Article 7, we do not do anything other than introduce a universal right to personal assistance. No matter how much someone needs it, if he needs it for 100 hours, if he needs it for less than 30 hours, I don't know, 28, 29 hours, we just give him that number of hours of personal assistance, no matter if it's older than 65 years. There's nothing revolutionary in this proposal really, it's about basic dignity, why should we go half way? I have already said that, at this point, the state is making €3.1 million a year for personal assistance. Following this proposal without our amendment, this figure would increase by EUR 5 million, i.e. to EUR 8 million. And a coalition colleague calls it a "historic event". However, when the United Left proposes not to go half way, let us ensure the universal right to personal assistance and increase this number to EUR 10 to 12 million, which is still a small thing from a budgetary point of view, it is said to be an excessive and revolutionary measure. Finally, certain disability organisations themselves point out that the threshold is 30 hours per week lifeless. The Union of Associations of War Disabled Persons of Slovenia calls for this threshold to be set at 16 hours of assistance. Next, the Association of Blind and Deaf Associations and the Association of Deaf - Dlan suggest that this limit be reduced to 15 hours. So the organizations themselves, some of them who perform personal assistance, tell you that the threshold is 30 hours inanimate. And this threshold is set here solely for the reason of the spatter, the spatter on the disabled, because it is obvious that giving 10 to 12 million euros to finally solve this personal assistance, which has been happening for 10 years, is obviously too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u27	Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u28	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, today we are considering amendments to a bill that has been expected by members or members of the disabled communities for a long time, namely, the bill provides for better participation in social life, taking into account the possibility of a structured personal assistance both at home and at work, as well as, for example, in education and in general, in social inclusion, which means, of course, providing some support to persons with disabilities in carrying out activities related to inclusion in society which they cannot carry out themselves because of different types of disability. As the New Slovenia bill came into play, I will not get involved in this; we have already heard this on the committee, as well as the shortcomings of the bill. I will not go into this either, and we have already responded to the committee when we have considered this proposal for a law. Basically, it's nothing. I believe that wherever there is will, there should be a way. Thus, we have before us a larger number of amendments, both nomotechnic and substantive. We have also prepared one substance in the coalition, this is the amendment to Article 9, which proposes that the number of hours of escort from 7 hours per week should change to 30 hours per month. It is a general fact of understanding life situations, when an individual sometimes needs 7 hours a week, sometimes he needs only 3, however, once more, twice less. Therefore, this quota would be monthly and would be applied flexibly, if necessary, to the disabled person who needs such assistance. So when we talk about this amendment, we are not just talking about some flexibility, we are also talking about recognition of different types of disability, and this is also what the amendment is meant for. I would also like to refer to the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 7, where they wish to delete certain age-related entry conditions, as well as those related to the necessary hours of assistance. There are now several conditions in the draft law in Article 7 which will have to be met in order for an individual to be entitled to personal assistance. Of course, in addition to a basic desire for a disabled person to live alone, that is, outside the institution, there are two other conditions that are attached to years. Here I would say that it is a restriction, i.e. an age limit which is tied, if I may say under the terms, to some working period, i.e. that personal assistants should also be provided through the so-called working period, in particular the desire of a single and independent life. And so it's a philosophy that's already known from models that the Scandinavian countries know, such as Norway, Denmark, Sweden, and I think that's easy to do. Why? Because for older than 65 years of age who are limited by this law, these rights are available or will be accessible through the Long - Term Care Act. Here I agree that this law must be prepared as soon as possible and dealt with as soon as possible in the National Assembly, i.e. as soon as possible. However, we will not say that this bill is totally unjust and discriminatory to those over 65 years of age, but it is worth noting that these individuals who are over 65 years of age will not be left without help. Indeed, the current proposal of the law allows that if an individual has exercised personal assistance before the age of 65, he will be able to benefit and enforce it even after the application of this law, i.e. through existing verified social security programmes. As far as the second condition that the United Left wishes to delete is concerned, I would say that I understand some of the basic intentions of the United Left Group, but I would say that the law is intended for people with disabilities who need a lot of help and who are also dependent on it for life. Of course, other users who need a smaller number of hours, as already mentioned, at weekly level, will still be able to apply this aid through home aid programmes already implemented by different organisations, which are financed not only by the state budget. And now, of course, he's messing with this number to give, I don't know, from 3 million to 8. It should be stressed that the State will give much more, including through the Local Community Act, as well as through funds from FIHO. And these funds certainly aren't as small as they'd like to introduce themselves. As regards the amendment of the United Left Group to Article 10, which would delete the possibility that espeia could also be personal assistants where they are problematic or referring to the possibility of abuse and exploitation within the meaning of a pre-emption. Of course, I can agree that concerns to some extent can be justified both on the ground and that the social policy of the State should be much more courageous in this regard. There is certainly a lot of work ahead of the ministry in this place, but we already have institutions that offer personal assistance at a non-profit level, so as long as this is the case, I do not see any confusion or reservations that this assistance would not be understood as an initiative for an economic initiative in certain individuals. I would understand if, for example, a personal assistant were left exclusively to the market. Then the thought would be entirely in place, but as long as it's not like that, of course, I can't support such an amendment. And, of course, accordingly, it does not amendment to Article 12 tabled by the United Left. The Joint Left also proposes, with its amendment, to delete the content which provides that half of the aid and service allowance may also be earmarked for the financing of a personal assistant. We in the parliamentary group have discussed these options and have simply come to the conclusion that we cannot agree with your amendment, i.e. with the amendment of the United Left. In fact, because certain individuals from disability organisations already wanted other costs, such as diet or various devices, to be borne, to be borne, of course, and that they felt that part of these funds needed to be maintained. In fact, this article also directly addresses those who opt for a communication supplement. In this regard, we will not support the proposal of the United Left in the SMC Group. Finally, I would conclude that when we talk about the bill, we have often heard that people with disabilities simply want to live as normal a normal life as possible. There are 90 of us in the National Assembly, and we all explain in our own way what this normality is supposed to be. I personally understand that every citizen has certain abilities and gifts and that, as a citizen of this country, he has the right to use his or her abilities and gifts in accordance with some of our social standards and some of the standards that we set ourselves as a society and to use them, of course, as far as possible and as far as possible under this law, even in terms of their disability. The law before us is certainly a step forward in solving the problems of disability organisations, and that is why I will also support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u29	First the replica, then the proponent's representative. Replica, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much. These are arbitrary restrictions when the necessary time is taken for the exercise of personal assistance or when age limits occur. But here we have the restriction that people fall out of this law after 65 years and out of the right to personal assistance. But as a colleague of the coalition parliamentary group has just stressed, this does not apply to those who have already received personal assistance. Yeah, well, what about those who don't get disabled until after 65 years? Those few remain dry or, according to you, do not stay dry because the long - term supply law is coming. Can we not refer to why there are no certain things in the Personal Assistance Act, to a law that does not exist at all? I'm sorry, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... Otherwise, by this arrangement, those who are already receiving personal assistance who are 65 years of age may continue to do so, only acknowledging the arbitrariness of this restriction. And there's probably no problem in eliminating it in this law, because part of it is you're doing it yourself. The same applies to a 30-hour limit. I mean, you're making an exception when we talk about sensoryly obstructed persons at 9. A member. Which is fine. We're just saying, be consistent in this logic, and let's do this for all categories of disabled people, no matter how many hours of personal assistance they need. You can't explain at the same time how good it is to make an exception for one category of disabled people here, but how wrong it is if in the United Left we suggest that we draw up this limit in full and let everyone receive the personal assistants as much as they need. And finally, as far as the arrangements for the implementation of personal assistance through espionage are concerned, only two scenarios are possible here. Either someone will serve on state subsidies and do this as a profitable activity, or someone will work as a nickname, in a very bad situation. I don't know which scenario is worse, so we're proposing what we're proposing to get it out of here at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u31	Iva Dimic has the word, but do I have to ask as a representative of the proposer or as New Slovenia? Mrs Iva Dimic has the floor as representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me respond, however, as a proponent. At the beginning of the debate on the amendments, I would like to say that the New Slovenia Group withdraws all amendments which are editorial and nomotechnic in nature. The services are now being regulated to relieve ourselves of the process of adopting today's law, so our amendments tabled by the new Slovenia are withdrawing. I would just like to add that we support Article 9 proposed by the SMC Group, the amendment to Article 9 – we support it. Of course, we also understand in some way the amendments of the United Left, which go in the direction of or problemise some entry threshold and, of course, also the threshold until the age of 65, as SMC colleagues have already said today. We wanted to sort of arrange personal assistance, if I could say working population, that's somewhere between the 18th and 65th years, because we also have all the other systems with all the other rights also in other areas. It is true, however, that the system needs to be fully regulated in Slovenia. Here comes early treatment, long-term care. These two systems on both sides are still open and are a matter of our further joint work, as early as dealing with children with special needs, as well as of course the long-term care of citizens after 65 years of age. It seems important to me that it is stressed that after 65 years no one will automatically be deprived of the right to personal assistance, so the SMC also proposed an amendment to Article 9 for sensory disabled persons, for deaf, blind, deaf persons. And, of course, they may also be helped by the decision of 30 hours per month of a personal assistant. So there's nothing direct about taking something away from someone. As far as I am concerned, it seems important to me to say that the FIHO funds, which are now the main means for the implementation of personal assistance and which have been shared in the field of software or whatever the various disability companies have applied for, remain. We are mainly managing funds from the state budget and these funds will increase once again, somewhere between 8 million and 10 million, plus FIHO funds, which are likely to be allocated through calls to others or to those who need slightly less hours. But the threshold is 30 hours a week, of course, the threshold that a disabled person needs to live and live normally. Nothing is simply taken, so it is also in some way supported by all disabled organisations. But I would touch here when you said, when you mentioned which societies, especially the Society of the Dlan, objected to this way of regulating or wanted a lower threshold of entry. You know, if you've accepted them into the parliamentary group and if you've listened to them, there's a very different problem for these people with disabilities. Our health and pension system simply does not recognize the disability of the deaf. This is also our future work, that we will also introduce the disability of the deaf into our system. Like our system, it doesn't recognize palliative care, even to be financed in some way. This was the biggest problem for the company of the Danube when we talked to them. If this would, of course, be settled — and I am sure that all of us who are here will try to arrange it, then, of course, things will be different. Just as we must first do early treatment of children and, of course, long-term care. When all of this is done, the matter in Slovenia will be very well and well managed in an exemplary manner comparable to that of all European countries. We have now taken the first step. I am confident that we will take a second step in the coming months and, by the end of the year, as the Government has promised, take all three steps and some other areas. Here is the emphasis, once again, on the need for early treatment and long-term care.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u33	I'm asking if there's another debate? I'm asking you to sign up. Mrs. Susana Beautiful Šimenka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, President. If I understand correctly, we will be discussing the amendments, so in the first part I will only refer to the first amendment, which is the amendment of the United Left. In general, I do not support their amendments, the ones proposed here, for the most part. But I still have a little bit of concerns about this first one. Indeed, I was also disturbed by the discussions below. We're talking about a long-term supply law that doesn't exist. Finally, we have neither a guarantee nor a time stamp until we actually get this law into the National Assembly. We know we've already had our sessions on this subject, but there's still no law here, no matter what the promises. Now we know that this is not just the work of one ministry, it is the work of both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, and somehow just so on the average now rush with one law and talk, it will solve another law, sorry, I can't agree to it. Even so, it seems to me that if this is resolved at the time, I do not have a problem, and finally this change can be corrected accordingly. If the marriage, when the law on long - term care actually takes care of all those who are above that age limit of 65 years. Until then, personally, I have no reservations as to why we should not support this amendment in this part, because it seems to me that it is entirely in place, namely, the Law on Long-term Care for Once Here. As far as that other condition of assistance is concerned, at least 30 hours a week, I am interested in the following. If we look at it, in a way we have had a personal assistant arranged today, one part through family assistants, which can be persons staying at the same address as a disabled person. In fact, the second part was through projects funded on the basis of a call for proposals made by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. If we look at this last call from last year, and look at the evaluation criteria themselves here, we can see that after these calls it was possible to obtain personal assistance for less than 30 hours a week. I am interested in the response of the Ministry's representatives: How will these funds be used in the future? Here we know that we have the funds secured by the end of 2018. This is for, I don't know, EUR 250 000 for 2016. I want to know what's going to happen in the future. Can you claim that these funds will still be available to all those who actually need help less than 30 hours a week? If these funds are available, fine, but if not, I also feel that this condition is to be deleted at this point, in some way appropriate. Or that this article, if we are correcting together, if this is possible in another way, because now if the Ministry changes its options and after 2018 it will not be possible to finance so-called personal care through calls for those who need help less than 30 hours a week, then I am concerned. From this point of view, I must say that I support this first amendment of the United Left. But I would really like to ask the Ministry of Labour's response. As it is now evident from the evaluation criteria themselves that it points differently for those who need help 30 or more hours a week, for those 20 to 29 hours a week, then the next limit is 15 to 19 hours a week and the lowest limit is 5 to 14 hours a week. I really ask you for an answer: Will these funds be available for sure in the future to cover this part of the disabled who actually need help less than 30 hours a week? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u35	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! A nice and warm greeting to all representatives of disabled people or disabled organizations too, I think it is right to greet them on this occasion especially in this place! I do not want to be dramatic at this point in time, that today is a historic day, that today is a historic opportunity to do something in the direction of not only the message values, but also for the disabled, but still. I am very happy, I am really very happy, maybe this is one of the most happy moments in this national assembly, that after many years of speaking, I do not say a word, but we are adopting a law that will systematically regulate the disabled. First of all, I would like to be a little critical of the proposaler and tell her that the key amendment of this law to Article 9 is also the co-authorship of Desus and SD, but it is true that, as the largest party, the first-signed Party of the modern centre, however. I can also be particularly pleased with this law, for the first time, because regardless of whether we are a coalition or an opposition based on what has been said on the Labour Committee itself, we have chosen our kind and we support this bill's proposal. Secondly, because I think it is even more important, it is that they are practically plebiscitely consensual representatives of disability organisations to the text of the law itself. Of course, I have to be a little critical here to the government, to the coalition, if you want, which I belong to, that we have not yet been able to get to know the text of the law on long-term care, and I believe that the time will come. The Personal Assistance Act, as it is said, offers a systemic solution to everyone, but I will not list all the types of assistance and services that are enshrined in this law. And I believe it's not just some message that it's not some kind of pianist thing, but it's a genuine concern for, I think, the most vulnerable target group. Some of the weaknesses of this law were also raised in the debate. It is likely that everyone would like the resources to be unlimited here, so that we can talk about universal rights, but I think there are still several other laws in the field of disability, which both at local and national level adequately address individual groups and forms of disability. I think that the amendment or amendment to the existing Article 9 in a variety of ways is listening to the wishes and needs of the target group of deaf and deaf who, through the debate, were those who had some comments. I think that with this amendment, when we somehow soften the upper limit or actually cancel it for this population, and we listen to it as much as possible in the hours where we soften things. It is true that it will take some time to adopt the law before it enters into force. If it turns out that there is a need for some modification, some change in this area, I think we have plenty of time. However, I believe that with all our sincere enthusiasm, we will not change our minds here, at least I can categorically say that I will not change my mind about supporting this marriage with both hands, because I believe that this is an important step forward for those who need the help of a fellow man, to allow them a better, better life and a brighter future. Once again, thanks to all those who have constructively helped to bring the law to this stage, as we have now brought it, that is, to decision-making and adoption. And I sincerely wish that this would be a good and important step towards a better life for all persons with disabilities in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u37	First of all, the representative of the proposer, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you very much. My colleague, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, would like to respond, and it is likely that the Ministry's representatives will also reply that the funds within FIHO, which are now being received by disabled organisations through the calls, will still be available. And disability organisations will receive these funds through calls, and will be allocated to them. And they will then carry out further personal assistance within the disability organisations. That is why we have also set the threshold of 30 hours, and that is practically what the disabled will get from the country if I may say so. They will be taken care of immediately, but those who will be within this, and their disability organisations will apply through FIHO calls and then implement within this assistance to their disabled persons who are included in individual disability organisations. Mr President, I wanted to say that I have been informed that the amendments of the New Slovenia Group have been withdrawn and we propose that the third reading of the law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u39	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u40	Hello! Several times it has been said today that today is a very beautiful day for those who have been waiting for this personal assistance for quite some time. I could join in, but, nevertheless, today we have a discussion about personal assistance and there are certain things that need to be said openly and out loud, so that we do not do some particularly great things, how everything is ideal and how great we have taken care of all things. Especially because, in fact, it is a matter of where more or less we all support personal assistance. But it is true that everyone can look at it in a little of his own way, with his own view and his own conviction of what is right and what is wrong. We must not forget, just to make it easier for us to talk about how a profession has been negotiated for years, what a personal assistant really is. Historically, too, when it first brought this issue to the National Assembly with the signature of the civilian population to accept the proposal of personal assistance, it went simply in this direction that they would no longer wait because they actually needed it. And you won't believe it. That's when only one non-governmental organization introduced this law. Interestingly, no other disability organisations have signed this nor have they supported it. Why? Because they were already disabled organizations among themselves, each viewed their own aspect of what personal assistance is and how and how to deal with it and in fact how we might need this personal assistance. [[…]] What am I trying to say? I would simply like to say that today, when we have a marriage before us, we must seriously and sincerely ask ourselves whether this is meant for all disabled organisations or for all populations of disabled persons in need of personal assistance. On the first ball we can say yes. However, if we take a closer look, we can quickly see that this problem has already arisen at the beginning. Allow me to give one minor criticism to the applicants in particular in the sense that we will also understand why, in fact, one law, which is a matter of personal assistance and is a partial systemic solution to a particular issue within disability protection, is being submitted by the opposition party. It's extremely unusual, as if the government doesn't have a hearing, or doesn't know if they would do it or not. We all need to and we know that two years ago, or one year ago, in our yearbooks two years ago, on December 3rd, personal assistants were promised to go to public debate. This was in 2015. That on 3 December, and we all expected this personal assistant to be in public debate. Of course, it quickly became entangled, why, precisely because of what colleague Pretty Šimenka says, until we have long-term care, then let the personal assistant not do these restrictions and obstacles. Well, here I think it's mostly confusing. We cannot push personal assistance into things that do not fit into personal assistance because we violate the definition of personal assistance, what long-term care is and what is the early treatment of children with special needs. In short, we want to mix everything up and throw it in one basket. It just doesn't work. How to be righteous, on the other hand, and yet to bring the law through to solve pressing issues is an eternal problem and an eternal dilemma, where and to what extent you have indeed taken this major step in a particular area. I'm sure the Personal Assistance Act alone won't solve any problems far from that. The proposer himself notes that disability organisations will continue to provide certain services, which are the subject of this Personal Assistance Act, with the assistance of local communities, ministries and FIHA in terms of the implementation of specific social security programmes. That's right, that's not right? I personally don't think so. If we look at FIHO funds, we can see very quickly that it is a resource for many people. And FIHO is not a distributor of those means to carry out certain questions or services that should be systematically settled by the State within other issues. However, this is how they are organised in other countries. Since colleague Kordish was talking about an anniversary that would be right and wrong. I would like my own heart to live in a society where we have self-service and everyone would take what they need and it would be automatically paid if it were for the disabled, anyway. In fact, in the case of people with disabilities, we all become sensitive for a number of reasons. First of all, because we can't afford anyone to be disabled. Another reason is that we never really know when we will be able to do so ourselves. Thirdly, even because we don't really know about disability until we're disabled. And that is why, in fact, on these issues, there will never be any great opposition, in fact, and we will be unifying very quickly if necessary. But where is this limit of righteousness? Above all, in the wealth of society, can we or can't do this, we have enough of this funding to cover all this? The interesting information mentioned by counterpart Kordiš was also about 8 million, as far as personal assistants were supposed to be in the first year at least, so it is written. I'm sure these amounts will be substantially higher. I don't know how my colleague Kordish came to the calculation that if, of course, I repeat, I don't know the concept of universal personal assistance, I don't know where my colleague Kordish got it, he defined it himself, they don't know it in the world, they don't know it in the professional circles, but they know UTD, and maybe it seemed nice to him that he said here now universal rights also in this area. By the way, including the UTD, where it proposes, there are restrictions, very severe restrictions. Well, I don't know why and the world would divide it from 0 to 99, let's say, work or infinity. [[…]] Because also, hand to heart, personal assistant, now I'm talking, 99-year-old or disabled person or 2-year-old, look, it's not even working out. It is an individual consideration of the need that each individual needs. In short, we can't just squeeze it into numbers like this. The next thing that seems very important to me is that we talk about who this law really is meant for. This law is intended for those who are motionlessly obstructed and those who are sensorically obstructed. We have two concepts that are very different between each other and require a completely different approach, a completely different view and, finally, just an explanation and the definition is very difficult to get into the key, see, one needs 7 hours a week or 30 hours. Therefore, it is likely that this time and dimensions in the law will be set so long as in practice it does not reveal what this really means and will probably need to be changed in the future. In particular, these items will change, and therefore I am sad that we do not have all three laws at the same time, because we could make this comparison, say long-term care and could actually define what long-term care is, what personal assistants and so on. Why did this happen? The law doesn't know copyright, and it can be filed by anyone who wants to, wherever they get it. And here New Slovenia is not something to read, they simply opened the question that they thought was past the time of waiting, that we should talk about it and conclude something. And I don't have any problems here. However, I have a problem, if I know, and I understand how it has been that New Slovenia has introduced this law. And here I will be very clear, it is an official who works at the Ministry of Labour and has provided one of the 15 versions to the New Slovenia Group, this law, of course, by explaining that it is coordinated between disability organisations. Sorry, this law was not in line with the disability organizations, I'm sorry. I do not, of course, give notice to the Group of Members, but they have done what is politically their decision, and I am also, of course, warning the Ministry of Labour, what kind of officials you have among your kinds. It just doesn't work that way. You know, this afternoon you're a member of New Slovenia, and in the morning you're an employee of the Ministry of Labour – these things need to be cleared up. Simply some kind of loyalty, including within the ministry, must simply be, and this only as a hint that it is also being handled. I was gonna say the name, but I'm not gonna say the name, and I'm gonna say that if I have to, because I think it's inappropriate. Why is that an important question? In particular, it is important because the Personal Assistance Act was stopped because those who know and know what it looked like in the past, namely, when it submitted this JHD in 2011, the Community of Disabled Organizations did not want to participate under various circumstances in this law. You all know the story of the accusations between Ms Elena Pičarič and Mr Šuštaršič, who cannot sit at the common table, you have the same disability. You can't sit at the common table. But after a few years of marriage, they sat together, which is progress for me, and, I'll say, I welcome this. If, at least, in the case of personal assistance, we were able to combine two people who simply cannot function together, and in fact both claim to work for the same thing. But it's interesting, and you need to know, you're working for the same thing, but you're working for each other according to your own concept. JHD The Society for the Theory and Culture of Handicap has its philosophy of course, what it means to be a personal assistant, if you ask Mrs Šuštaršič, it has its philosophy, and this is why certain things in the law we simply cannot unify today. Then there are sensor disabled people here. It is not true that only the company of the Danube had comments. She also had comments from the Association of Blind and Blind Slovenia, which was also co-signed, but you all saw only the sign of the Palm, below they were attached to the proposal and comments they made. That is why I think it is necessary to point out one thing in these discussions, and that is, and it is right to repeat this several times, among other things, the UN has adopted a definition that people with disabilities like to repeat: Nothing about disabled persons. They're very fond of repeating that, and they're right. Why? Because they are the only ones who know how and how to handle it. It is true, however, that the countries here have a function and a task. This is, of course, justice or systemic regulation under the rest of the legislation, so that certain rights will not be duplicated and certain rights will of course not go through the window. On the one hand, we will finance them through public tendering as social security programmes, and this will be a problem for the Court of Auditors more than once before, and on the other hand we will give them the right by law to regulate it in one way or another. These two should only be arranged one way. Are we going to do everything through public calls, which is crazy, opaque, confusing. We can do this as an experiment. We can do this as a kind of experiment. Everything else, which is a major social problem, has to be addressed by systemic law, by the point, and this has to end. According to this logic, of course, I do not agree with the proposaler here, and it is right that in the future we stop financing this through public calls and that this is all settled within the law. What does that mean on the other side? To release a few funds at the FIHU all of a sudden. And just once, if only this information that the proponent mentioned is 8 million, then we'll have 8 million more money on FIHO, very simply put, that no one will take me by word, do anything else in FIHO, or finance anything else, but by this logic, for sure, let's say, if they did this over their thumb, and certainly a few million more. If I only know about how many JHDs, I think that one estimate of the millions was 200, it was now personal assistance and I very much think about everything, of course this is relatively large money. Finally, let me conclude with the very exercise of personal assistance, which Kordish spoke little about, and almost everyone else. I personally believe that we will have to define and amend the law because of the following matter. In the proposal, the proposer is first under 8. He stated to the articles in the preceding indent: “including other services intended to assist in the installation and use of medical technical devices”. Then, through the revised amendment, it flew out for a simple reason, because it is more or less clear who really gives these aids in our country – a qualified professional and no one else, a dot, can do otherwise. However, there remains a diction in which I still have a serious problem and will then prove to be a problem in practice, namely the provision of home assistance services related to the provision of basic assistance to the user, the cleaning of the airways, the injections, catheterisation and so on. That's gonna be a problem. If you ask a doctor, as some would say, they will say: No problem, because we teach this to our relatives and then they do it. You know, as long as they're family, that's all right. But once this is over and there is a complication and when we meet in court, it will be a serious problem. And we will see on the one hand that this law permits, and on the other hand we will find that it is not expertly qualified. I'll give you one example. The categorization of a woman or a man is completely different in weight. In the final phase, it is very clear in the course of the course that a nurse can catheter a woman, but no longer a man, must be a doctor with her. Look, a nurse can't catheterize a man. But with a personal assistant, he'll be able to do it. It doesn't matter. And that's going to be a problem, and I'm going to tell you today that there's going to be a problem once there's a first complication. I personally will not oppose the law or this problem, but I am simply warning you that these are problems that are not cleared, so I am saying what personal assistance is and that not all personal assistants are. It is true, however, that for the past 20 years, because we have not resolved this issue in the country, and we have thought that it will be the way it has been resolved to this day. By the way, no one's ever died because they didn't have a personal assistant, and personal assistants are being carried out all the time, just from other programs, in a different way, and, of course, not the way they should. Therefore, it is very important that we be aware that this law will have to be amended further. Happiness, when we adopt this law, is just that, oddly enough to say happiness, but let me understand, in a figurative sense, what I want to say is that we have enough time to go back to 2019, with 1. 1. When the law enters into force, these issues will also be settled and defined. In spite of all the criticisms, however, I thank the proposer for the proposal that we will support. I agree with the very purpose and introduction of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u41	He's got an advantage in the process. Gradually, Mrs. Ludmila Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u42	Dear Mr. President! In recent weeks, we've been hearing a lot about you being a human rights specialist. All praiseworthy. I would only ask you if you would tell your respectable colleague Möderndorfer whether it is a human right to be a member of a political party working at the Ministry. Is that human rights? Is it the freedom of an individual to be politically active? And when we say that marriage is good, necessary, necessary, and so forth, we spit at the person who knows it. And if he was ordered by the Ministry to prepare this law for consideration, I'm sure he would. However, since New Slovenia has met several times with various disability organisations and we have detected this problem and felt obliged to do something in this area, we have decided to do so. We also received some suggestions from disabled organisations. However, since Mr Cveto Uršič, a ministry employee, has worked in this area for many years, we have included him because he is also a member of our expert committee. And I do not see any problem that a member of New Slovenia must not be someone or work on any ministry. So please, if you can warn him. I am grateful to all who have prepared the law, and also to you who will support it, and I hope that this will save many pains to many.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u43	Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u44	Dear President! In view of the fact that the procedural proposal itself indicated that we should identify what human rights are and what is not, with regard to the proposal submitted, or the case put forward by Mrs Ludmila Novak, I would like to ask the following. Firstly, in clarifying the procedure itself, when you prove from the magnetogram that I have violated human rights because you would argue that someone should not be a member of New Slovenia, then we will be able to discuss the procedural proposal. But I will repeat once again to understand what has been said in the process. I don't mind if someone works for New Slovenia in their spare time as a member of New Slovenia. It is very controversial, however, that in the morning when an official works at the Ministry, he misrepreciates the law and puts it into the hands of New Slovenia, especially since he is an expert in this field, he has done a very bad job and has done a very bad service to Nova Slovenija. So don't talk to me about human rights. But I didn't really know, but I told the Ministry that the Ministry or the Minister should imagine that he must act because such an official cannot work in this way. Yes, but something else. But surely not what he does in this way anymore. It's not professional for me. But don't tell me it's man's right to misrescribe a law as an official and give it to me, but I said at the beginning, the law really doesn't have copyright, but it's right to say out loud what's going on. And that's all. I don't personally expect anything because nothing can be done, but it's right to know how it happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u45	Because they were two procedural. I can certainly see that membership in the political party for every employee in the public administration is a free decision. And to this end, it's a human rights issue. Everything else that has been said or has not been said has been explained by both of them and I do not intend to further define myself, because I cannot, because this is no longer a question of human rights, but it is a question, I don't know, of the ethics of employment and so on. I really don't know how to get into this moment or how to define it. At all, this is not my duty at the end of the day as President of the National Assembly to hold the meeting and I would suggest that we move on through these procedural steps. But it was a reaction. I understand and therefore will not say that this was a procedural abuse because it was a matter of clarifying matters, which is usually not a practice. However, I think that the first call was from the proposer, i.e. the representative of the applicants. Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u46	Let me say that I was, indeed, in 2012 in the National Assembly, when we discussed the proposal of the 5,000 signatories and the JHD company, which collected these signatures and introduced the law, the then proposal for a law on personal assistance. We all agreed that the law should be adopted, but that law on personal assistance did not specifically include those persons with disabilities, to whom this law somehow brings some improvements. These were deaf, blind, deaf, and, of course, mentally impaired. And that is exactly what we have been looking forward to in the New Slovenia Group and meeting with them all the time, how we would integrate them into the Personal Assistance Act. Because, as has already been said today, nothing about disabled persons. And nothing about a law on personal assistance or a law for disabled persons without, all disabled persons, all disabled organizations. And yes, you admitted, the law was demanding, so it took so long. You even said that you had it in 2015 even yourself, on December 3rd to go to public debate, but the law did not go to public debate because it was waiting, as you said, for long-term care. Finally, I am proud of all our members who work and strive for the common good. This law has been a work for the common good, a work for the weak and can be summed up by the spirit of a Christian democracy, for which we all seek in the New Slovenia Group. And I am happy, and probably not least, to all those who have created this law to see the light of the world and to prove to be good. It has been pointed out that it is interesting that the company JHD and the representative of the disabled organisations Mr Šuštaršič have united in this law that they have different philosophies. Indeed, you can have different philosophies, but I think you have the same need — to have someone who will dress you in the morning, to have someone who will wash you, to have someone who will take you somewhere, to have someone to feed you, and so on. This is a common goal of various philosophies, but they both have the same needs of life. And this is what I think the disabled have united on these needs, this is a great achievement of us and of course of all of you who have understood it. And I think that's a common success. If you are now troubled that New Slovenia has done this, yes, perhaps that is why we have been sent to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Before we proceed, let me tell you that the withdrawal of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors – Christian Democrats – has been published on the e-club. Mr. Jani Möderndorfer has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u48	Once again, I'm going to repeat this -- I'm not going to trouble you to make a law, and I've made that very clear, far from it. I said the following, however, that it is extremely unusual for an opposition party to file such a law. And I also explained my view of why it happened. Secondly, I think it is very important, yes, I agree, that they may have the same needs, but the state is obliged to define what a personal assistant is, it is obliged to say how it will handle it, and I say that this law has not defined all of this. That's the problem. But I'm sure, given that we have a deadline for implementing this law, which is 1. 1. 2019, enough time to settle all these matters, which we will not be able to resolve today in this debate and with these amendments. And let me repeat, there's nothing wrong with you putting in a marriage, but marriage is badly prescribed, and that was the problem. Because if you look at the dictatorship, you'll see that at least 15 different versions of this same law or the same, because the same law is the same, in fact, brought in by someone. And that's what this is all about. I do not question who is a member of New Slovenia, and I have nothing against Novi Slovenije, on the contrary, I will give her many other things. The way he does it, it's very wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u49	Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. I can't believe what's been going on for the last 15 minutes. I mean, this law has been prepared — by who? A bureaucrat at the Ministry, who is also a member of New Slovenia? I mean, the real thing is, big balls, well, that's really not a big deal. All I want is for us to make a better marriage. In fact, this Personal Assistance Act is supposed to cover the working active population, from 18 to 65 years old, but already the users of personal assistance are 90% unemployed, 9 out of 10 of these people are unemployed, so this interference is completely arbitrary and unnecessary. Furthermore, this law releases 80% of current users of personal assistance. I am very sympathetic to the proposal for this law, which is what I want and what we propose in the United Left with the amendments, after all, is to act a little more ambitious – instead of 18 million, we expect to invest 12 million euros in it, and that personal assistants become a universal right without bureaucratic restrictions. And here I would like to invite representatives of the government and the ministry to identify themselves to our amendments; so far they are more traumatised sitting there waiting for the end of the discussion to end because nothing is quite fitting in. Okay, let me go on. We have been able to hear statements that this law does not go all the way, and that is why age limits exist. That's why we have this ceiling for 65 years, let things be regulated later by the non-existent Long-Terms Act. But, I'm sorry, after this bill, some disabled people get personal assistance after 65 years of age, some other disabled people, especially those who are 65 years of age or more, and then they become disabled, but they don't. And this is a completely arbitrary decision, driven by itself and solely by the motive of the spatter. There's no wise argument as to why we'd do something like that. And it is not true that it is not possible to do more than this law proposes that it is possible to do so, and then we listen here from representatives of the cobajaga social parties, how they want it to be possible more, but unfortunately it is not possible. Hey, we talk about 4 million a year! For that kind of money, you're sending 50 Slovenian soldiers to NATO to provoke an armed conflict in Latvia. But don't tell me that it's impossible to find 4 million euros to finally resolve the issue of personal assistance and that everyone who needs it gets it to the extent that they need it. To conclude, if I touch on our next set of amendments, which covers the issue of chastity, we want to draw up the possibilities of adjunctiveness in the exercise of personal assistance. As far as the amendment is concerned, by 10. Article, here we delete the implementation of personal assistance by espionage, which says that only institutions, societies, foundations and so on remain here, which are already legally non-profitable and cannot be drawn from them. What is the problem of espionage, I have already said; we have two scenarios, either these especies work like a profit company like partoo, say, and literally at the expense of public finances for the personal assistance of persons with disabilities, someone would have made a huge profit on this account, that is the first scenario. On the other hand, there can be a multitude of forced espions that will depend entirely on the budget and on the user. I've said it before and I'm going to say it again, and I don't know which of these scenarios is worse. The amendment to Article 11 deletes the possibility for contractors to hire personal assistants through commercial contracts and so on, which is another safeguard against forced espionage and student work. And here I have to say that there are at least 128 volunteers waiting on the market, 71 students and 23 external associates, plus a spare army of unemployed. And here we have all the conditions and all the possibilities to prevent the systemic, which is the word the ruling coalition so strongly loves, from pacifying employment in this sector. Comrade Prikl of Desus is a strong fighter against leniency, and now he has the opportunity to support our amendment, at least with a personal assistant, to replace and trim the wings of penance. Is he gonna do it or not? I hope he chooses so much consistency and warmth, but I don't know how it goes. Then there is the amendment to Article 12, where we prescribe that personal assistance may be exercised only by an institution or society which has sufficient staff of personal assistants. We would like to prevent it from being found, for example, by what kind of social worker who goes to set up his own office and then draws on the budget while not hiring assistants, but renting them through espionage and so on. Which is also important because of consumers, i.e. because of people with disabilities who need constant care during vacations and sick leave. And this is where you have to start hiring enough people, for these people to provide funds, not to rub holes in the pen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u51	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members, all those who accompany the meeting! The law that we are adopting today is not only important for users of personal assistance, which we know were already included in the personal assistance programmes in 2015, but 159 in the waiting line for inclusion. The law will allow users to become more equal when they join society and promote their independent lives. The law is also important for the greater stability of employment of employees under personal assistance programmes, as it is now 392 employees of personal assistance programmes. It is not to be overlooked that the law is also a step towards greater integrity of our society and greater sensitivity of people to the needs of individuals and to the protection of human spiders, as the Slovenian community has polluted itself for the past 25 years, with numerous human rights violations and with increasing violence against individuals. In fact, this law also means introducing greater sensitivity to the needs of our fellow man into our social community. Last but not least, this has been demonstrated in the adoption of this proposal, since, despite the awareness of the many shortcomings of the bill, all of us have sought to adopt it with the idea that the competent ministry of shortcomings will be lifted by the time the law enters into force on 1 January 2019. Of course, it is not possible to ignore the fact that he has been preparing for the law for a long year at the competent ministry, namely the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and then very incompletely came to the National Assembly. Please recall that the Ministry has failed to prepare an appropriate law for this area for so many years. It is also a fact that a seriously flawed law has been introduced, which has required the correction of almost every article of the bill. Some errors that give rise to legal uncertainty about a number of legal provisions, which Members have been duly alerted by the Legislative Service of the National Assembly during the parliamentary procedure, are unlikely to be remedied until now. What problems it will bring to the law, due to its lack of clarity and uncertainty, the uncertainty of the legal nature of personal assistance, the relationship with the family assistant and other forms of community care, the absence of the inclusion of personal assistance as a public service and the relevant procedural provisions, the inadequacy of criminal provisions, the absence of previous provisions and other warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service, many of which have not yet been resolved after the second reading of the law, we find this difficult to imagine. This throws a handful of bitterness at this law, with the joy of adopting the law that many urgently need. We cannot help but recall this long-term care law, which has recently moved from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the Ministry of Health. It does not appear that a law involving nearly half a million people would soon see the light of the world, even though it has been in preparation for years and is linked to the law that we are considering today. That is why the 65-year limit set by the existing bill that we are considering today is even more controversial and discriminatory, as the border does not respond to the needs of many people in a similar situation and will be treated differently. This is what some organizations of disabled persons have pointed out, such as the Association of Blind, Deaf, Deaf and the Union of Civil Disabled Persons of the Wars of Slovenia. In the process of enacting the law, we have come to the opposite of them with the amendments, but it is likely, especially due to the lack of our expertise in this area, that we have not covered everything necessary in the amendments. We will be pleased to support the recast of Article 9 of the bill, the amendment of the coalition, which will bring the needs of the various groups of persons with disabilities even closer. In the future, however, I hope that all law-makers dealing with disabled persons will keep their passwords Nothing about disabled persons, which was not fully respected this time. The Desus Group has already announced that it will support the proposal for a Personal Assistance Act. At the same time, we would like to see the competent ministry remove any legal voids of this law before the law enters into force in 2019 and include in the law provisions that will allow for a more equal position of all those who really need personal assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u53	Mrs. Maria Bachič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am sorry that when we consider today such an important topic that we are truly so few in the National Assembly. We never know when something like this will happen to any of us, or even to us, and we will need personal assistance. This law, which is before us today, is a very important law, and I hope that we will also unanimously support it in the National Assembly. It is intended for the most vulnerable population, this is for people with disabilities who need help in carrying out basic, basic basic tasks which they cannot carry out on their own due to obstacles. It can be clothing, it can be personal care, it can be an escort, it can be feeding and so on. Through personal assistance, persons with disabilities will be able to participate equally in the community, education and employment. Thus, the law follows the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which guarantees the right to dignity, equal treatment and independent life and the role of society. Speaking of such a sung slogan Nothing about disabled people, I can say that disabled people only know what they need, what personal assistants are and what they need. That's why we included them. They could have said a lot of things themselves. In fact, we were visited by a number of disabled organizations who said on behalf of their members what they expected from a personal assistant. Of course, we have listened to them and I hope that we have reached an agreement with the disability organisations on this law. They will be able to decide for themselves, so users, who will be their assistant, except those who will not be able to do so themselves, will in fact need a legal representative. And that we have not come up against those who have had certain comments, we have already discussed this on the committee, blind, deaf and deaf, so in our amendment of the coalition we have also corrected Article 9 so that the number of hours of escort and communication per week changes to 30 hours per month. These hours will be able to benefit in a concise manner, which means that they can be involved in health conservation programmes in health resorts or in the integration of sports and cultural activities, but in return they will also be able to receive a cash refund. And this use will not be linked to 65 years, and it will also benefit over 65 years. I am pleased that this personal assistance will also be given to persons with mental disabilities, which, in fact, my colleague Möderndorfer left out in his speech earlier, and I want them to be able to live their own independent, independent and quality lives at home with the help of a personal assistant. As we have heard in the debates, we still have many laws, and I hope that we will still be able to pass a law on early treatment of children with special needs and, of course, such difficult long-term care. All of this is about the most vulnerable group and I think that we really need to come together here and adopt these laws, which we have been waiting for so long, as soon as possible. We all note, I think that without, I must say, without any other choice, that this law is an extremely important acquisition for all persons with disabilities and that is why we will also unanimously support the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u55	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has the floor, Mrs Martina Vuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Do you know what is the essential difference between the arrangements we are now adopting and the existing programming funding? The fundamental difference is that personal assistance is invoked as a right by the adoption of the law. This means that the right of the person who needs personal assistance goes through the evaluation process to determine the extent to which he needs it and can then choose a personal assistant. The current project funding system is based on a call for proposals to make conditions, but at the same time to determine the extent of the funds. And on the basis of this level of resources, then a number of personal assistants can be co-financed. And with the number of personal assistants co-financed, the number of users and users is limited. So logic turns to whether a personal assistant is a right or an option that you can choose or that your organization in which you are involved may grant if these options are available to you. That's why it's an important law. For this reason, it is crucial why marriage is needed if we are to talk about personal assistance as a right. And if we all agree, through the first reading, through the debate on the committee, through the opinions of the disabled organisations that we have received, this consensus is finally confirmed by the vote, it has been achieved that we agree that the personal assistant must be the right. Now, when something is defined as a right, there are always conditions under which you can apply for that right, request it, acquire it, realize it. And the conditions are defined in the law in the way it came out – so I understand the proposer, so we understand the Ministry, and we also understand the disability organisations – from some of their own assessments of how the matter would work, what personal assistance is intended for and during which period it is most necessary for a person to have it. Therefore, the threshold was set for 30 hours. And if you look at the threshold of 30 hours, it's drawn from that proposal that was tabled by the disabled organisations, even by the one that was never filed, and it was given as a proposal, as an initiative to be taken and submitted. This is therefore the own assessment of disabled organisations. Of course, there are always different opinions, and there is always someone in the story when it assesses that, in their view, some solutions are not the most optimal for their needs. Of course, that's always possible. But I think that from this point of view that we have received from the disabled organisations, this consensus is very, very large, especially if we remember the historical reasons that have already been mentioned today, as well as the individual disagreements or, if I say so, the unequal views that exist within each group. Because obstruction, whether sensory or movable, is only one of the characteristics common to disabled persons and persons with disabilities, but they are absolutely different, which is right for each other to be different, just as we all are. Therefore, an individual assessment is always necessary when assessing the need. For this reason, special expert committees will be set up at social work centres to carry out these individual assessments, which will determine the extent of the needs. And according to a certain extent of need, this person will have the opportunity to exercise personal assistance. When we look at the limitations in terms of years when someone is entitled by age to use personal assistance, even if we are looking at comparatively across other countries with legal assistance, we see that a large majority of them come from this period, i.e. the upper limit set by their own legislation for retirement. However, the lower limit varies depending on how other arrangements are arranged, or from the age of 18, that is, from that active age, or from that active age, or from that of those who have such a system, that they can also be personal assistants so that parents can also be the personal assistants of their children, so that they do not have other systems established, then they start from nothing, so it is possible from the birth of the child. Since it is only based on the fact that if someone has to be fully involved in society during this active age, they must also have the option of employment, they must also have the possibility of other forms of activity, it is best to do so if you are receiving individual assistance. Personal assistance is individual assistance. But now that we're talking about it, we can't act like there's nothing else. In addition to our current project co-financing, we have legal individual institutions or individual transfers that are also able to obtain in order to facilitate life in order to facilitate social inclusion in order to provide assistance and services and so on. So some things already exist, so you have to look at the system as a whole and not an isolated individual law or an individual institute. We have a family assistant, we have an allowance for help and a service, we have a security allowance, we have help at home, we have institutional protection after all, we have an opportunity of an interpreter, it's not the same thing. They're absolutely not the same things and they can't be used for the same purposes, but they are. The whole system, which exists to allow those who need additional assistance, is an additional support for inclusion in society or in independent life in order to ensure this. What is important is that, as has been said many times today, it is anticipated that when adopted it will be used with 1. 1. 2019. This means that this period is intended, first of all, to establish these commissions, to establish a whole system, to provide funds for this purpose in the budgets, and that, at that time, a law on long-term care, where we have always stressed from the start that these two matters should not be dealt with completely separately in order to make it possible to pretend that there is one. When we enact this system, it is absolutely necessary to adapt the law on long-term care when it comes to the adoption of the law on long-term care and, if necessary, to adapt the law on long-term care in such a way as to make matters work. And that's the purpose. In this way, we will then receive early treatment, receive one necessary treatment from birth to death in a way that ensures the longest possible life in the community, at home and as much support as possible for someone who needs help or, despite the need for additional assistance, lives alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u57	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else would like to discuss Article 7 and the amendment of the United Left? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u58	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Although some in today's debates are disturbing slightly higher-year-old words, I would still say that this is a historic moment, however you turn things around. This policy in this national assembly is almost uniform, if it is today, it is certainly a good result and a positive thing. Perhaps it is right that the discussion has developed in such a different direction to look a little bit at the history of the formation of this law, and that Member Möderndorfer may also be given an answer as to why this law was drafted by the opposition parliamentary group. I recall the beginnings of my work in this Parliament in 2012, when an initiative was launched by civil society and disability organisations to adopt a law on personal assistance. They collected the signatures, they introduced the law, and I was also among those coalition Members who rejected that personal assistance law. We rejected it in good faith, as the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs then promised us that by Christmas there would be a system of government law that would solve problems. Well, since then, it's been quite a few new years, several years from 2012 to 2017, that's five years. And today, as it turns out, we're going to adopt this marriage. At least I can tell myself, I don't know how you feel, but I've had a very bad conscience. In particular, this feeling was deepened when representatives of JHD invited us, Members, many of you have most likely put this experience through to spend the day as a personal assistant. And things that we think are completely self-conceived are unreachable for certain of our citizens without personal assistance. And when you see and experience, you feel all these things, then you put it all together in a new light, and you start to wonder if we really are such an insensitive society that we don't take care of the help we need in this society. I've been asked questions, too, if money is for all kinds of nonsense, why isn't it for a personal assistant? Since there were always two reasons why the Personal Assistance Act was not adopted, one was the financial consequences and the other was that the law was not in line with all disability organisations and that it had shortcomings and so on. And why is this law now filed by the opposition party? Because after the discussion, a fellow Member of the Möderndorfer should be the law tabled by the Government. So let's get the tickets, clean cards on the table. I don't have anything to hide here. Or because disability organizations have found that their messages do not penetrate coalition parties or via the government. Remember, coalition MPs, that you have already rejected one law on personal assistance. And that there was also a lot of promise on your part. And here I am absolutely not hiding anything when I say that at some point Mrs Elena Pecarič called me and she said, look, there is nothing going on in this area, we who are these personal assistants bloodily need, are simply dismaying whether you are willing to file this law with us at least to put it back on the agenda of political decision makers. So to force all of us sitting in this house to start dealing with this problem again. And of course I also said under the impression of this bad conscience that I had since 2012, which I voted against this law, that of course we will do everything possible to move this thing forward. And now, again, one thing that appears to be a major offense — to whom have we turned? They turned to the one who understands matter, and we turned to one of our members who knows this matter. Yeah, who do you want to go to? I am saddened by the calls made by Ambassador Möderndorfer, who almost calls for the lynching of this official to be unacceptable what this official has done. However, I find it unacceptable what Member Möderndorfer is doing. This official did not do these things in his time of service, this official did these things in the afternoon or after the end of his career. I know these things are irrelevant. But now we've gone into some such details because, I understand Commissioner Möderndorfer, he's disturbed by this, it's clear that this should be the law brought by the coalition or now its SMC to unlock this matter. And that bothers him. Why did some opposition New Slovenia do this? Nevertheless, he rightly said that he would support the marriage. But I don't think it's normal for an official to help us make a marriage, see such an abnormal or incredible drama. He even admitted that there were still different variants of this law in the public eye, several variants. And there is also evidence of a violation of a marriage that is unfounded. It's about these perceptions of how badly this marriage was prepared, how poorly it was prescribed. It is a pity that there is no Member of the Möderndorfer, but at least he, as the leader of the largest parliamentary group, should be aware that no law is perfect. And to prepare any law, even if we prepare that law on January 2nd as a day off, they still have some comments. And it would be fair to at least admit honestly that it is not possible to draw up a law that everyone in this country will agree with. He's not here. It is, however, a fact, and it must be acknowledged that this is certainly the farthest harmonised law between disability organisations to date. In the Personal Assistance Act, several times in the past, two very exposed and visible representatives of disability organisations, such as Mrs Pecarič and Mr Šušteršič, have stood contrary, but this law, which is before us today, both support. At least that's how it's seen in public publications. And when we draw the line below it all, it is inevitable that this is actually the most harmonised law ever. And for those of you who know matter, I am simply because we have been proposing, a little deeper into this story, I assure you that it will not be possible to harmonise any more. It's not possible. Because there's always gonna be someone who's gonna say, and this little detail bothers me, and I'm gonna fix it, and that's what I'm gonna do. Of course, everyone is looking through his own eyes at what this law really means to him. I claim that we as the opposition party have drawn up a very real law. Here I could pick up the tactics of the United Left and talk about universal rights and determine the maximum personal assistance for all, regardless of their handicap, whether it is sensory restraint or movemental limitations, we could do this to me, but we did not aim here in Parliament to perform nicely, say nice things and also say that we are committed to the right of all, but our goal was to make this law see the light of the world, that it was adopted and that it will ultimately result in some improvement of the lives of these citizens who need it. And even in this sense, we have written this law and made it in some real contexts, and that is why the limit of 18 years is 65 years. It is also true that some citizens need this personal assistance more than others. Someone who is completely motionless, paralyzed, who is immobile, needs a completely different type of personal assistance than someone else with a minor disability. I know that this is difficult for many people to admit, and even if I had certain defects, I would probably be looking at the same as the rest of the disability organisations that added certain comments to this law. I think that as legislators we had to decide or we had to decide certain matters, and here these matters had to be somewhat different, who actually needs personal assistance a little bit more, for whom it is of vital importance and for whom it improves only the quality of life. I think we've tried to describe these things in the law as honestly as possible, paint them, and even in some way write the articles in such a way that everyone gets something out of it. I don't know if anyone's been exposed today, but this law that we're about to pass today is not taking anything from anyone. Even those who have commented on this law, let us reiterate that this law, which is before us today and which we are about to vote on, does not take anything away from anyone. But it is true that he gives more to some and a little less to others. I don't deny it either. But it's certainly a positive thing that he doesn't take anything from anyone. Of course, this law also represents difficult material. If I had said earlier that there were two reasons why this law had not already seen the light of the world years ago, if I had pointed out on one side of the finances, on the other hand, the coherence of disability organisations, perhaps now would add a third reason – the complexity of matter. In recent times, I think that this law has been restrained on the government's side in particular because it has been tried or wanted a law on personal assistance and long-term care to be handled together and to drive things together. But all things or both are extremely difficult, as are personal assistants as well as long - term care. From the point of view of practicality, I think it is better for all these areas to be regulated separately and will eventually consist of a logically concluded whole, namely, for all citizens up to the age of eighteen, the law being drawn up by or on which Member Murgel works, until now this Personal Assistance Act, which will mainly regulate matters between the 18th and the 15th years and then the Long-Term Care Act. However we turn things around, these are some reasonable frameworks also on our activity, our way of life. I don't see any big fears here like maybe anyone in the United Left. As Ambassador Dimic has already said, we have set amendments or all the amendments we have tabled have been withdrawn. Some of you have seen this because of the amendment from paragraphs 36 to 13 of this article that these were serious shortcomings of this law. If we went to read the amendments, they were such smaller, less important, nomotechnic things that could be arranged in a different way. If I draw the line below everything, I think that if this opposition law on personal assistance, the law prepared by Nova Slovenija, is adopted today, the crown will not fall from the head of the coalition or from the MP Jani Möderndorfer. I think we're going to do something in common for all of our citizens. I think that those who are now concerned about who will win this medal will also be subject to the same logic in this story as in negative stories, when we accept something negative in this House, nobody on the street cares that we were not in favour of it and that we voted differently. Everyone says, "You've accepted this in Parliament." Even in this Personal Assistance Act, I think the story will repeat itself. It does not matter who put it in, but it is important that the law eventually sees the light of the world, and those who benefit from this law will, of course, say. Parliament has done something good and useful for all of us. That is why I am looking forward to this day and I have a good feeling that, after the bad feelings I have experienced since 2012, we have come to the point where things will move forward, and I thank everyone who will contribute to the Personal Assistance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u59	Mr. Marjan Pojbich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u60	Mr. Vice President. In the introduction, I must tell you that this marriage is of great importance and thank God that it came to the table at the National Assembly. I am also particularly sure, thank God that this National Assembly has an opposition, or we would still be waiting for how many years if this SD team's department were to lead, probably the next century, for this law to enter the National Assembly into procedure. Within three years of her mandate, this government has practically proved what it can and can do. He's talking about systemic solutions, but in the end, that's the solution. I think this is extremely irresponsible by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I must also say that today I have been extremely affected by the debate of one of the members of the largest party, and this is the Mir Cerar Party or, as they call it, a modern centre that today is discussing the problem of who introduced this law rather than asking why it did not do this position, why the government did not. And how is he not ashamed to bring such a debate to the National Assembly? He's not ashamed because they should do it! We should have done this a long time ago. People with disabilities deserve it. I'm sorry this wasn't accepted before, too. And thank God this marriage is on the table. And there's no reason, none of us sitting here have the right to speak on behalf of the disabled about whether this, they, third or tenth has now passed the law. It is crucial that we adopt this law as soon as possible through the procedure of the National Assembly, so that it can begin to live as quickly as possible, so that we can really help those in need. Disabled people are because they are one of the most vulnerable groups in our society. I must say, I am terribly disappointed that this government and this coalition are extremely, as I would say, two-faced. On the one hand, as you saw yesterday, there is one problem that I read, but this happens practically every day when I get certain documents on my bench or my desk in the National Assembly, and you can read in the newspapers what is going on in our society, how this government and this coalition care for the most vulnerable groups. Yesterday, I read an article that says that right there in Styria near Prekmurje or in Prlecia there was a story where a family who lives with windows falling out, without electricity, without water, men on minimum wage, women without work, have a small child, and there is no hearing for them in this country and in this government. They can't survive. On the other hand, there is no problem, we have asylum seekers, a thousand 963 euros, we can choose in which part of this country they will live, they can choose what TV they will have in the room, they can choose what furniture they will have and so on. Did this society of ours, when it elected this government, this coalition, want such a government and such a coalition?Oh, my God! Please! What is your attitude toward the most vulnerable groups in this society, you can see from these examples. And there are thousands and one of these cases. Every day, as I've said before, I'm called pensioners with 200, 300 and so on by Euros who can't survive, who can't begin and end of the month. And we talk about everything else here. The public administration doesn't have a problem with 50, 60, but I don't know how many millions, but when it comes to these most vulnerable groups, we're moving. And here in the National Assembly, even when we should be the most united, we are talking nonsense, as I have listened to today by a representative from the ethical, moral party of Mir Cerar, who is saying that the problem is, because a gentleman is an official, no matter what he is, he said: I have a suitcase full of these governments and these coalitions, if he is not able to put the law on the table, but we will do it differently, the opposition will do it. And the opposition, I am almost sure, has tabled several legislative proposals in this mandate as a coalition and a government together. Yeah, what country do we have?Oh, my God! What country do we live in? Yes, in God's name, I hope, in God's name, I hope and appeal to the Slovenian voters and voters never to support these parties who are sitting in this government and in this coalition again. Why didn't the Ministry of Labour and Family bring this law to Parliament? The Secretary of State spoke about project financing and how they solved the story in this way. Of course, because back there it was possible to hide and barant, because back there is so beautiful, so, I'll say, such grayness, where it's possible to have a little self, a little people, and a little bit of myself. The law now clearly lays down the rules of the game, and the government is afraid, of course, of course, because it has its own people peed up, since virtually 95% of the total social system and the money that comes into the social system is controlled by the SD. Does this seem normal to you in this national assembly? How long are we going to wait for the coalition to wake up and say, look, this is not your nursery, this is the money that we all give together, those who create, of course, a social resource to help those most vulnerable groups, not to put 100 people up there and there, or a thousand of these members of the SD, and to collect money from this system. And in the end for these poor people, these poor people of ours, my Slovenians, are left with nothing or almost nothing. And then there's pensions like that, and then they're like I won't talk, and then the disabled lose everything, almost everything. [[…]] And why did it take so long to wait for this law on personal assistance? I blame myself, too, because maybe I was in one government, well, I could say that the year we had the government, you had to solve a thousand and one problem, you had everything else in your hands, a red falang or a socialist falang or something to tell you. I don't care if you hate me anymore, I'll tell you the truth. The Slovenian people need to know the truth once. He has to find out how their money is being distributed, and that's not to be crossed, that's fact and truth. The sooner you realize this, the sooner the moment of truth will come for the Slovenian people, and everyone will live easier. And I can't stand that one member of the post here is allowed to say that the problem is that the opposition has tabled this law. And that's an untasteful, utterly tasteless act. In fact, the disabled expected this from us long ago. And now that we've finally found some consensus on the committee, and said, look, we'll support this law because it's absolutely necessary, then one tries and the gentleman tries to work from the Mir Cerar Party here and talk for almost half an hour about it, or I don't know how many 15 minutes, who made this law and that it's an unsavoury act and that it's immoral that it's an unethical act and so on. Because someone decided to step on the edge and say I've had enough of you. If you're not capable, we'll do it because people and people with disabilities expect it from us and they want it and they need it. And our job is to work in their interest. And I think that's the right thing to do. And in the opposition, I hope that we will always be aware of our status in the National Assembly and act in the interest of the Slovenian people. And we will also be putting forward legal proposals that go hand in hand for citizens and citizens, not for individual groups of privileged people, as this government and this coalition are doing now. And that's wrong. But for those 50, 100 million, there's no problem for asylum seekers of EUR 963, no problem for my poor people of Slovenia, ha, and there's no money, and there's no, and there's no argument there that you don't have to do anything. Is this a normal country?Oh, my God! No, it's not. For me and my Slovenian people, this is not a normal country, and it cannot be that way. It can't be like that! I'm not going to be too long. I'm sorry. I know it's hard for you to listen to me because I just say what I think is right and what's right. I hope that I will say this so many times that you will get tired of me once and you will say, see, if we are not able to lead this country, we have taken the money that we needed, let someone else leave this country from the misery that we have brought it to. And I know we're only able to do this in a position, of course without the United Left, because she's a coalition, another story for me, once she's here, the second time she's there, she's talking complete nonsense, I've heard it again today, she comes here, reads the quote, then they die, go home, get some sleep, come back to the National Assembly in the evening when there's something to vote on, except now Miha Kordish is today a few minutes more here. And that's the kind of people our citizens and citizens pay for, please. Please! And to conclude. I don't want to be too long. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be happy to support this law, of course we will support those amendments that we think are right and will improve this law. However, I hope that in the future, at least this year, as long as there remains a coalition and this government, if we bring any laws, regardless of which party, into this national assembly, we will enter together as we are. However, when it comes to a final decision, I hope that today nothing will change, that we also support such legal matter regardless of who is investing it, which color is investing it. Because it can't be that only those who have red color on them are called to be able to make legislation, and that legislation goes through. But if someone else puts it, which I always say, I strongly oppose these color divisions. [[…]] I think we are Members and Members of the National Assembly here, who should do their utmost to help our people in distress. Then we're a real parliament, then we're a real team, and then we're the right people and the right Members and Members. And if we think about it that way, I think that by the end of this year, as long as you have left, because we will certainly have a very high-quality bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party to put it together and save the coalition and the opposition, or else people will lynch you because you don't deserve anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u61	Procedurally, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much, chairman, for the procedural. I suggest that you warn the previous debater that he should look to the left and to the right, because here is the right-wing tribunal and I see three SDS Members, and most of today's debate was here even one Member. So here the SDS Member explains to us what we are doing in the United Left and what we are not doing in the United Left. Hey, your boss Janez Janša is never on the air.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u63	Mr. Uroš Prikl, you have a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I was thrilled this morning that we would probably adopt a very large majority of the personal assistance laws in the second reading today. I believe that there will be a third reading at this meeting, a third reading in February, and that the law will be adopted. Now that I listen to you, some Members, yes, perhaps the most he flies at you, Comrade Pojbich, I am no longer so impressed. Do we not know one story where we are practically plebiscitely united, or do we make a spectre out of every story? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] There's a procedural proposal coming up, and I've got another two minutes and 13 seconds, and I'd like to ask if you don't interrupt me here. I have never, in Desus we never wondered who is proposing this law, but we have not looked to the left, not to the right, not to the Wednesday, but to the content of this law. And if this law is, in my opinion, an extremely good message for all who will benefit from this law to which it is intended, it means to all groups of people with disabilities, I think it is necessary not to start fighting from some prestigious stories here, but to look at this law, let us discuss the law. As a matter of procedure, I cannot ask the President to include you in looking at certain specific articles, certain amendments, but nevertheless, the President, you can warn them, all debaters, in the future, to focus on the law. To the law that is written here. I am sure that it is not ideal that it is very good, and that by adopting this law and such a debate I have also experienced on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that it is a good journey, a good signal, a good message for all who will benefit from it. And once again, this law, and here I have to summarize my colleague Tonin, this law actually takes nothing from anyone, it just gives nothing. But it is true that perhaps everyone would like to give more to each other. But after so many years of speaking today we are moving from words to actions and, of course, I ask you, President, if you can direct, as far as the Rules of Procedure allow you, it is quite round and loosely written that all debaters focus on the content of this law and that we show, or especially if you want, that we are disabled, that we agree that we care about them, and that we want to bring this law to life.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Let me just answer these two procedural questions. Mr Pikl, yes, in the work I agree with you, we could, in particular, stick to the amendment of Article 7 or the proposed amendment of the United Left, but from the very beginning we allowed a relatively broad debate on all the articles and it seemed reasonable to continue on this path. In the second part, we could both apply to the debate, but I don't want to stop here. Mr Pojbič, if you want, I will give you a procedural, purely short time, but I suggest that we then give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak to continue our work. Mr. Pojbich, please, you have a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u66	Mr Vice-President, thank you for this opinion, which you have just delivered. But I have to tell you, when you step on your tail, you're gonna whine. And today it turned out to be true.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u67	I did not understand your procedural proposal, but I suggest we give the floor to Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I certainly don't count on cats, so I'm gonna talk now. I will not be so critical of the government, although I have many times, but I am also grateful that the Government has supported this proposal, or the Ministry has supported this proposal, that we have not heard this time as many times, because it is necessary, necessarily, well, but we will prepare ours too many times, so I will say that I am pleased, happy to hear this debate that you will support this law in all the groups of Members, because I think that we are doing our primary role for which we have been elected to do something good for our citizens. [[…]] I have already told many times that I have worked in my previous job for 18 years with mobilely disabled people, high school students, so I also knew a number of personal stories, as well as the burnout and burnout of their parents or family members, who cared for their young people, as well as the distress when it came to the end of the school year, where, then, to stay at home or to go to an institution, they were usually homes for the elderly, because there were no suitable cases of spaces for such a population. It's come to light a lot of times. And they wanted it that way, because you know young people, even those who are healthy and at home, want freedom to have little of their own space so that they can have time for themselves, and someone who's chained to a wheelchair that actually always needs help is even more eager to have some greater autonomy. And by this law, as Mrs State Secretary has said before, in fact, the right to such personal assistance is guaranteed. Of course, we have different projects, so it is also financed from this, but this also means a certain uncertainty. By doing so, we also give to those who will need this assistance greater certainty, greater security, and also to all those who work in this area. It is true that we sometimes find that in the country we are spending money for a lot of things or that taxpayers’ money has disappeared or that we have had to lay it on strange matters so that we can put it into personal assistance or give people this personal help, and I think that money is well invested. We need money, so we don't have to be sorry for this money, because we will help both those users and their owners, and not least those who will also get employment or a chance to earn money through it. We can look at this from multiple angles, but I certainly think that's a good thing. That is also why we have withdrawn those amendments, which were not so urgently needed to survive, that today, when we are full of energy and ready to do so, we will fully support the law. Then it is time for preparation and here the country will have the task that by the time the law starts to be implemented, in 2019, to prepare everything necessary in terms of education, coordinators and all that is necessary for the beneficiaries to actually apply the law and to live in practice. I was surprised when I heard the wide support of disabled organizations. Because many times we have faced this very problem that desires, demands, visions, views are different, but there has been some unification. Of course, a lot of things have been done before. I must say that I am once again very grateful to our professional associate, if I may say so, to the expert committee that has been employed by the Ministry, which has worked for many years in this area, that he has been willing to make his skills available. Certainly, if Mr Möderndorfer is talking about 15 different options, it just shows how difficult it was to solve this problem. How many discussions were there, how many options, how many coordinations were possible, but there was no final confirmation. That is why I believe that in all things, even this law is not enough to meet the needs, but from day to day we are adopting laws that we then amend, that we are correcting when there is some weakness in practice. We'll also fix this, supplement it if the need arises. I will say again: Thank you for your readiness, both to the Ministry and to all of you, fellow Members and fellow Members. Today is what will happen when we confirm another beautiful event. Today we were regrettably less at a prayer breakfast, which was very beautiful and let me say that the second time I invite you again, because such events, too, are witnessing to individuals about how they realized that there was more to be done in life, they can encourage us to make even better, more humane political moves.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u69	Colleagues, colleagues, anyone else would like to discuss Article 7 and the amendment? I guess not. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the Joint Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am also concluding the debate on Article 26. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Second defence of the draft law on the cross-border implementation of services within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government or to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, the family, the social affairs of Mr Peter Pogačar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u70	Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members. The bill before you lays down the conditions for the cross-border provision of services to both employers and self-employed persons from other Member States of the European Union in Slovenia and, more likely, introduces conditions for the cross-border provision of services to Slovenian companies in other Member States of the European Union. The proposal is primarily intended to protect posted workers who have a close working relationship in the Republic of Slovenia and are sent to another Member State of the European Union. The draft law is transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia by two European directives on the posting of workers. At the forefront of the objectives and the purpose of the law is to prevent, in particular, abuses and violations of the labour rights we have witnessed in the past. To this end, the proposal seeks to ensure the precise, correct and consistent implementation of the work of the European regulations which provide for the issue of A1 certificates. The Republic of Slovenia therefore fulfils its obligation to harmonise policy in this area, and to a large extent also refers to the response of the Republic of Slovenia to massive violations of the rights of posted workers, which have been alerted to by the media, trade unions, the Ombudsman and, last but not least, by other Member States of the European Union, where Slovenian companies operate to a greater extent. Taking into account the importance of cross-border provision of services in the internal market of the European Union for the Slovenian economy, the Ministry of Labour has also approached the Ministry of Labour in drafting the law with the main aim of protecting posted workers from the point of view of our economy. The draft law, as drafted by the working group of the social partners, was also presented and endorsed in the Economic and Social Council and was not significantly changed later in relation to key provisions from the point of view of the Slovenian economy. The proposal for a law on the cross-border provision of Slovenian employers' services lays down five conditions. The four stem from European rules, one of them, and the one relating to respect for labour law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes for reasons of public interest. Under the four conditions laid down by European legislation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has established such criteria to verify these conditions, which take the most into account the specific circumstances of the Slovenian economy, simplify and limit the negative impact of the law on the functioning of Slovenian companies in foreign markets. By adopting the proposal for a law on the implementation of cross-border services, we expect to prevent or limit the posting of workers by so-called fictitious companies. The law clearly provides for the possibility of repealing the posting of an employee if it is found that it has been sent by a straw company. At the same time, it is also impossible for such an undertaking to obtain a new certificate of departure. The certificate will be issued only to an employer who has not infringed the provisions relating to payment for work, working hours, black employment, to an employer who regularly pays wages and social security contributions. Major inflows into the state budget into the pension or health treasury can be expected in the medium and long term. The law provides for the issue or possibility of posting a worker abroad only to an employer who has fully settled all tax obligations, including contributions. The law before you is therefore drawn up in the context of the European Union rules in this area, while respecting the interests of the Slovenian economy as far as possible in the pursuit of the objective of protecting the rights of posted workers. Accordingly, the law, which is urgently needed in the Slovenian space and is primarily intended to protect workers' rights, supports trade unions and the vast majority of employers' associations. The proposal for a law is fully in line with European rules in this field. We propose to the National Assembly that the proposal be supported by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u71	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 35th meeting, on 1 February, the Labour, Family, Social and Disabled Committee considered the draft law submitted by the Government for adoption as the working body. Representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the State Council, the Legal and Legislative Service, the Ministry of Health and also the Department of Health Insurance, the Labour Advisory Office and the Chamber of Commerce and Business. Our legislative service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and has made specific comments to the draft law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which does not support the bill. The representative of the applicant, i.e. the Government, presented the key objectives of the proposal for a law regulating the cross-border provision of employer services by posting workers to work and the cross-border provision of self-employed persons services from Slovenia to other Member States of the European Union and from other European Union countries to Slovenia, on the basis of maintaining participation in compulsory social security in the home country. In the Committee's own debate, most discussers pointed out in the draft law that the bill is a step forward in preventing the deployment of workers by straw companies and other businesses that are a case of bad practice and that it requires the coordinated functioning of all competent inspection services to be carried out effectively. It also regulates the conditions of posting foreign employers to work in Slovenia and the obligations of foreign employers and the conditions of posting Slovenian employers to work abroad and therefore the associated obligations of Slovenian employers. Special attention is also paid to the issue of forms A1, which is a European Social Insurance Certificate, which proves that posted workers are involved in social security and that the employer must have the right to have in place in the event of the posting of workers to another country that is a member of the European Union. In practice, it has been shown that part of the posting of workers from Slovenia to other EU Member States is due to the abuse of Slovenian legislation and EU legislation governing this area. Therefore, the proposal of the law provides for the tightening of the conditions for the issue of the so-called form A1 and, inter alia, checking whether the employer normally carries out an activity in Slovenia. Furthermore, the law also contains provisions on cooperation between EU Member States and also regulates cross-border enforcement of penalties. Members and Members of Parliament, as well as the general public, have been repeatedly alerted to abuses relating to the issue of these A1 forms, at meetings of working bodies, the National Assembly, as well as to the wider scope. Some amendments have been prepared and adopted, which have eliminated the concerns initially raised. In addition to the amendments adopted, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of the first delivery of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report, which I have tried to present briefly to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u73	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which the Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have before us one of the most important rules that pursues the objective of strengthening the rule of law, ensuring legal security and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in terms of preventing abuse of the referral institute and violating the rights of posted workers by Slovenian employers. The proposal for a law on cross-border service delivery is therefore intended to protect workers from employers who do not respect labour law rights and social security rights. Of course, it is not material that relates to the normal working relationship within our country, but to the protection of those of our workers who work for our business entity across borders, or of foreign and our workers who work through foreign business entities in our country, that is, in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, it must be said that the main part is the transposition of European legislation relating to posted workers aimed at preventing abuses, in particular, at preventing violations of their rights arising from work and social security. The draft law lays down the conditions for issuing and terminating or repealing the A1 certificate and lays down the procedure and the competent authority. It prescribes subsidiary liability in the event that a foreign employer who is a subcontractor does not pay his posted workers his personal income and does not carry out the prescribed insurance. It shall also establish cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the area of the detection of infringements of the service of decisions and the recovery of penalties imposed by the competent authorities of the Member State of the European Union in which the service is carried out as a result of infringements of the rules on the posting of workers. Cooperation will take place through the Internal Market Information System and the impact of infringements will be shown financially in the domestic territory. The purpose of this Act is to prevent the cross-border provision of services and the posting of workers to work abroad, in the first place to so-called straw companies and other employers who do not meet the conditions for the inclusion of workers in compulsory social security in the Republic of Slovenia or who do not meet other conditions relating to the exercise of an activity. Of course, in the Desus Group, we welcome everything that means improving the situation of employees. And in this case, it is certainly precisely the case that, with clear conditions and criteria for cross-border activity, those in a subordinate position are protected, i.e. workers who are exposed to exploitation, either because of lack of rules or because of non-compliance with regulations. However, the fact is that the adoption of the law in itself does not mean much in dealing with the problems described if the supervisory authorities fail to properly carry out their tasks in the enforcement of the legislation. At the same time, in our Group of Members, we fear that they do not carry out the latter tasks consistently enough, but we can only guess. I can only conclude so flatly that the work inspectorate itself with 80 inspectors is very limited, and the inspectors are likely to be overburdened by administrative tasks, so that they are already running out of time for specific field controls. We therefore rightly expect the competent ministry to be aware of this and will offer appropriate solutions in due time so that the law can also be adopted in practice. As far as the consequences for the economy are concerned, some decline in the overall range of cross-border provision of services to Slovenian companies can be expected, but this is not necessarily a bad thing in the Desus Group if, even with the help of this proposal, all those poor employers who have infringed the basic rights of employees are excluded from the business, that is, pay for work, working time and employment in black. Because of the above, they will not be able to obtain an A1 certificate, which is the basis for working abroad, or they will be deprived of A1 certificates. While obtaining the necessary form A1 brings some additional bureaucratic obstacles and increases the cost of operating Slovenian companies, in the Desus Group we do not see this as a greater risk of reducing competitiveness. Members and Members of Desus will therefore be supported by the proposal for a law on the cross-border provision of services prepared by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u75	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleague, colleague and colleague! Freedom to provide services means the right of undertakings established in one of the Member States of the European Union to provide services in another Member State of the European Union and thus the right to temporarily send their workers, irrespective of their nationality, to perform the work necessary to perform the service in another Member State. Fair competition between service providers and the protection of workers' rights is also crucial when travelling to another country. This is the purpose of the directive, which addresses the areas which have proved to be the most difficult in recent years, in particular the prevention of abuse and the strengthening of the protection of the rights of posted workers. The Directive on the posting of workers to work in the context of the provision of services provides that undertakings who are assigned to work in another Member State must provide for at least basic working conditions, minimum hourly items, working hours, paid annual leave and so on, in accordance with the rules and collective agreements in force in the country where workers are posted. Our companies, if they acquire transactions in other Member States, also provide services with their employees. Freedom to provide services is one of the foundations of the European Union's internal market and the essence of a single European space, in addition to the free movement of persons, goods and free movement of capital, and – as Social Democrats – we must stress this – the protection of labour rights and elected standards in the European Union must be raised to such a high level as the so-called free movement of capital and goods. However, for the protection of workers' rights it is primarily the responsibility of the countries themselves. Of course, countries protect their regulations and working standards. The law provides that any Slovenian company wishing to provide services in another Member State of the European Union must obtain a certificate of form A1 from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for each worker who intends to send it, in order to remain a worker at the time of posting to another Member State of employment in compulsory social insurance in the Republic of Slovenia with the aim of preventing cross-border service delivery and in this framework of posting workers in the first instance to so-called straw companies and other employers who do not meet the conditions for cross-border service delivery. The law thus pursues the objectives of strengthening the rule of law, ensuring legal certainty and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. Due to the particularly vulnerable situation of workers assigned to work in another Member State of the European Union, the cross-border provision of services allows that employer who normally carries out an activity in the Republic of Slovenia and does not violate the relevant provisions of the labour law relating to the rights of the worker, which it is considered that he has not been fined more than once in the last three years for a misdemeanour with respect to the provision of rights to posted workers who are temporarily employed in the Republic of Slovenia. It takes into account all of the above, the law primarily ensures greater safety for posted workers and will therefore receive uniform support in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u77	The text is by the Group of Members of the United Left. For her, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. Traveling workers abroad is one of the main methods of extreme exploitation. Cross-border service delivery is often just a cover for organised crime. There has always been a tendency in the European Union to use the travel of workers for social dumping. If we only remember the Bolkestein Directive with the idea that Slovenian workers would be paid according to Bulgarian rules and Bulgarian workers in Slovenia would also be paid according to Bulgarian rules. Although such social dumping has not been legalised, it is often carried out in practice. In this they are very active companies registered in Slovenia. According to the Austrian Social Fund Buak, 39% of all construction infringements were found in Slovenian companies last year. Of course, one wonders why Slovenian companies often look for their profits in crime. The answer is simple. In the last ten years, the political class and capital holders have degraded Slovenia to export the pendulum labour force. They destroyed the construction sector and stopped infrastructure projects, so subcontractors shifted their business to Germany and Austria. As we recall, by 2008, Bosnian workers had been brutally exploited by us. Remember how Vegrad's workers lived or SCT workers lived. And then Slovenian construction collapsed, these same employers or subcontractors moved their business model simply across the northern border to Germany or to Austria. Before the crisis, the Slovenian authorities tolerated extreme exploitation in our home, and then without checking the employers they issued forms A1 to travel abroad. And the story of Vegrad and SCT began to repeat itself, this time a few thousand kilometers north. The position of the United Left towards the journey of workers is clear. The travel of workers and agency work must be prohibited wherever possible. Where this cannot be done immediately, at least it must be limited. However, in each case and in each scenario, this work needs to be closely monitored. If our position were to be in one sentence, I would say: In Slovenia and in the European Union, at least as strict rules as the Republic of Austria has recently enacted should apply. Under these criteria, the government proposal is too restrictive. However, I would like to improve the situation because we currently have a system in place in which A1 forms are issued in such a way that they appear in beautiful eyes. In this system, systematic infringements of workers' rights by chaining businesses easily obtain the necessary permits. If this law is to be applied consistently, such a thing should no longer happen. Therefore, the Socialists will also support it if the coalition supports our amendment to Article 15. This law does not apply only to Slovenian companies that travel their workers abroad, but will also apply to Slovenian companies that accept workers from foreign companies. Examples of Marof Trade have shown that illegal exploitation is not limited only to the construction industry, but is taking place in all sectors. It has also been shown that the contracting authorities not only deal directly with the subcontractor, but in the meantime they return intermediary companies, so the contracting authority must be responsible for the payment of workers in all cases, no matter how many intermediaries return in between. This responsible should not only be limited to construction, but should apply to all sectors. Today's law would be acceptable to us with this correction, and there is absolutely no argument and no reason why our amendment, which regulates what I just said, does not support this national assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u79	Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u80	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have adopted a bill on cross-border service delivery in the New Slovenia Group with great hope. In the hope that the Government has listened to the calls of entrepreneurs who also provide transport services in the neighbouring Republic of Austria. For some time these entrepreneurs have been subject to more intensive supervision by Austrian authorities, which often require non-life or virtually impossible matters. After a thorough review of the text and consultation of experts and entrepreneurs, we were disappointed. The overall assessment is that the law unfortunately does not solve any of the problems described above. On the contrary. The craftsmen warn that it brings additional administrative burden and obstacles to Slovenian entrepreneurs. The proposed solutions will, according to our assessment, cause additional economic damage to Slovenian companies and may result in the dismissal of workers. The debate on the committee responsible has already shown that there is a great deal of dissatisfaction with the proposed law. The Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia imposes additional administrative tasks, but does not provide staff and funding for their implementation. We agree that in many cases additional protection for posted workers from abuse is welcome. However, it is not right that the proposed law is not flexible enough, for it foresees the unfairness of all entrepreneurs, which we cannot agree to in Novi Slovenija. The law is obviously also inter-resortaryly inconsistent with financial effects, which is not a good traveller. The stakeholders are also not satisfied with the way in which they present the text of the law and their involvement in the process. In New Slovenia, we have proposed amendments to the decision-making process, allowing in particular for cross-border work to be considered as cross-border service delivery for up to 8 days, so that it would not be subject to such administrative procedures. This would be a short-term job to facilitate work mainly for small employers with only a few days of installation or services per month. However, the second essential amendment would shorten the obligation to issue the A1 certificate by the ZZS from now on 5 days to 3 days. This should be done automatically. This would be the solution for those who perform service activities, such as service tasks, and should be on the road immediately after the emergency call. There is great competition abroad in this regard and this would allow our companies to be treated more equally. The law Members of New Slovenia will not be supported unless it is greatly improved in the direction of support for entrepreneurs, to which we have tabled amendments and alerted in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u81	Ms Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much. A few days ago, at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we discussed the issue of posted workers and carriers in carrying out their work in the Republic of Austria. A problem that is somehow linked to this proposal for a law on cross-border service delivery, particularly in the sense that it leads us to a thorough reflection of the principles on which the whole concept of European integration is based, as defined by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Sometimes it seems necessary to weigh the fundamental principles of the European Union between the rights of workers and, on the other hand, the free economic initiative. Similarly, the adoption of the proposal for a law on the provision of cross-border services, which is before us today, has been seen. I regret the fact that some key representatives of the Slovenian economy, as well as the National Council for the Proposal of this Act, have not supported it. Not proposals for solutions resulting from the Posting of Workers Directive itself, and not some rules for implementing the Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems, which are the result of excessive infringements that have actually taken place. As the applicant himself states, the scope of cross-border service delivery of Slovenian companies in other Member States has increased dramatically since the start of the economic crisis. This is about increased economic activity of Slovenian companies abroad and the provision of services with posted workers, in particular in the field of construction. The reasons can be found in the recovery of some European economic markets, as well as in the release of the German and Austrian markets for Slovenian companies and their workers 6 years ago. The increase in cross-border service delivery has also had negative consequences in terms of increasing abuse of the referral institute and violation of the rights of posted workers. It is precisely because of the latter that it is essential that we bring into our legal order more detailed rules defining the conditions and procedure for issuing A1 certificates; this is a social security certificate proving that the posted worker is involved in social security and that the employer must obtain in the event of the posting of workers to work in another Member State of the European Union. In practice, it has been shown that part of the posting of workers from Slovenia to other Member States is due to the abuse of Slovenian legislation and European Union legislation governing this area, in particular in cases of so-called straw companies. The draft law therefore provides for the tightening of the conditions for the issue of form A1, including, inter alia, checking whether the employer normally carries out an activity in Slovenia and, in particular, whether it fulfils the conditions or obligations laid down in the labour law. In addition to the methods and conditions for the cross-border implementation of employer and worker obligations and the procedures and conditions for the issue of A1 certificate, the draft law also contains provisions on cooperation between EU Member States and also regulates cross-border enforcement of penalties. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, we believe that the proposal for a law is a major step forward in preventing the posting of workers by straw companies and other companies, which are examples of poor practice or poor business model. At the same time, we know that marriage alone will be difficult to prevent the abuses that are taking place today. Supervisory authorities must also play an important role in this regard. All efforts must be made to achieve the objective pursued by the proposal for a law, which is to ensure fair competition between service providers from different Member States and to protect the rights of the weakest, therefore posted workers. The proposal for a law on cross-border provision of services will, of course, be supported by the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u83	Mr Jan Mahnic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! This law is just another law that proves what the mode of operation of this ruling coalition is under the leadership of Prime Minister Mir Cerar, and this is to block the economy as much as possible, to strengthen bureaucracy and thus to lose jobs. Interestingly, this law has shown above all how the coalition, together with the supporters of the United Left, is double-faced. Let me give you a concrete example. When we talk, say, about migrants, you say, they're not all terrorists, some of them are, but we can't say they're all terrorists. But when we talk about entrepreneurs in a specific case, you say, yes, some of them abuse employees, they're bad guys, and it turns out that all entrepreneurs are bad guys. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a message you are giving to citizens and citizens, especially entrepreneurs. Since some of them are really cheaters, bastards, those who exploit their employees, you are now preparing and adopting legislation that will hit everyone, all entrepreneurs, including those, and especially those, because most of them are working honestly, who are responsible and who are serious about their employees. And that's not right. We know what unemployment is like in the country, we know what an economic picture is. However, such a law as is being enacted today would require only minimal corrections, and you will contribute to the increase in unemployment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we advocate that the most effective social policy is the creation of new jobs. Our client proved this from 2004 to 2008, when unemployment was below 60,000. We reduced unemployment by 40,000 at the time. Not by such laws as you accept today when we receive additional bureaucratic obstacles to entrepreneurs, but by the way that we have burdened entrepreneurs. On the other hand, we agree with some of the solutions in the law, which concern preventing employees from being abused because this is also happening. But instead of going to sanction those companies that exploit their employees, which carry out such activities, so that such stories as we have seen in the past come to light, that we are also witnessing such infamous statistics, if this is true, that 30% of the offenders in Austria are Slovenian companies, I have not checked them, I will check if this is true, but then we must go to such companies, not to adopt legislation that will be a bureaucratic obstacle to all those who do what is right. For this reason, we have also proposed two amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which also follow the recommendations of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, that is to say those chambers where those citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who create jobs with us and consequently fill the state budget so that you can share this money, we have heard, at the previous item of the agenda, how. We suggest that form A1 be issued in three days and not in five days, as you now suggest. With all the employees you have at the Ministry of Health and at the Ministry of Social Affairs or not for health, but consequently at the health insurance company, we are confident that these people will be able to do so within three days. The second issue is a short-term referral. This fell out of the law, even though this was clearly defined in the directive. Imagine that someone who receives an order from Austria for the kitchen, for example, going to Austria to assemble it on or before the day, this will now be no longer a business trip, but it will be a referral and, of course, the whole procedure involved. As we vote on the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will say before the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u85	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. I give the word "magic." Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u86	Messengers, Members, good afternoon! Article 4, which is before you today, introduces the possibility of reciprocity in some way. Take a look at the latest situation our neighbour Austria is doing with Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs. Things are so bureaucratic and complicated that it takes some normal conditions for work or takes the hope of Slovenian entrepreneurs to do business in Austria at all. Of course, Austria is doing all of this under the pretext of anti-dumping legislation, but since we all know in this House that Austria is famous as a country that eliminates bureaucracy or has various lump sums, it aims to make things as simple as possible, and on the other hand, it adopts laws that require Slovenian companies to operate in Austria when our companies have almost a suitcase of documents themselves, from translated payment documents and similar stories, that these are all laws to prevent or disable the Slovenian economy or Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs. The amendment, which we have tabled in some way, allows for the introduction of reciprocal measures, which means that if Austria exacerbates it, then let us also give it the legal basis to tighten the case for Austrian companies. Because what can happen to us? On the one hand, Austrians with impossible bureaucratic regulations will prevent Slovenian companies from working in Austria, while Austrian companies can work in Slovenia without any serious obstacles. Recently, I have already mentioned the case because the Slovenians would certainly not be able to do this or would not, the Austrians would have prevented them from doing so, so Austrian pears of concrete drive to Maribor and do all things normally. It would probably be difficult to understand that Slovenian pear concrete vehicles in Graz would do something similar. I just want to say that with this article we want to introduce the possibility, the legal basis, that certain compensatory measures will also be imposed on the Slovenian side or, if you wish, reciprocal measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u87	Mr Peter Pogacar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u88	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to comment before I go to the debate on the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members, but in general on some of the views of the groups of Members. The debate has repeatedly said that additional administrative obstacles are being imposed on Slovenian companies. Of course it doesn't. It is with this law that there is the possibility that companies travelling workers to another EU Member State will be able to do everything via the e-VEM web portal. The calculation of the Ministry of Public Administration savings for the economy is around a million euros at annual level because they will start all electronically. In the law, in order to protect the rights of posted workers, to prevent abuses that have taken place in practice so far, it introduces several conditions prior to the issuance of the A1 form. However, these are the conditions that will be fulfilled on their own in the state's last information system, so the entrepreneur will not have to bring any certificates. The application will be made via the e-VEM portal, the bases will be checked electronically in the back and the A1 certificate will be issued, which is an insurance certificate in the home Member State for the posted worker. Maybe a few more things that were exposed, and later I'll talk about short-term directions when I explain the amendment itself. I also think it is essential to stress this, this proposal for the law before you is a compromise. It is a compromise among all stakeholders, a compromise between the representatives of workers who face daily infringements of workers' rights, is a compromise between employers who have an entirely legitimate interest in exploiting within the EU all the acquisitions of the free internal market, a compromise between different departments, a compromise between the various supervisory authorities, where for the first time since the beginning of Slovenia's membership in the EU we have introduced clear rules which the body is responsible and responsible for overseeing. As for the amendment itself to Article 4 tabled by the New Slovenia Group, I must say that I would comment on it this way. In view of the debate we had last week in this National Assembly on the problems our entrepreneurs face in the Republic of Austria, the amendment suggests this issue in some way, but I must stress the following. The amendment itself does not refer to what additional conditions should be laid down for another Member State. Any other additional conditions could be determined only by law, probably by this, there is an amendment under which it states that the Republic of Slovenia will determine additional conditions. The rules at EU level apply to the cross-border provision of posted workers' rights services. And within that, they must be respected by all Member States. By no means did any Member State, this has been repeatedly stressed last week, cannot afford to distinguish between companies established in that Member State or in other Member States as regards the rules of the game. And the amendment's proposal speaks of it. However, if it were to be possible for a Member State to discriminate against Slovenian companies, which would be contrary to existing European legislation, then the Republic of Slovenia will also discriminate precisely against companies from that Member State – I do not think that this is the right way. The problems facing our companies in the Republic of Austria currently, which we discussed last week in the National Assembly, relate to the implementation of legislation in the Republic of Austria. Austrian legislation in no way distinguishes between Slovenian and Austrian companies, it is a way of implementing. And these things will be resolved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was also in line with the recommendation of this National Assembly, in the framework of international diplomatic activities, both bilaterally with the friendly Republic of Austria and, of course, with the bodies of the European Commissions. The proposed amendment is not supported by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u89	He wants to be with the mags. Is there anyone else who can discuss this article? I'm guessing yes, so I suggest you sign up. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u90	I will say that perhaps the debate of the Secretary of State shows exactly why Slovenia is where it is and why, in my opinion, Austria may once again be a more successful country than Slovenia. We want to be more papal than the pope, and the Austrians are using the policies of enforced facts. Dear Secretary of State, I am convinced that also the Austrians claim that it is in accordance with European rules, the Single Market and all that because they are smart enough to know that something contrary to the EU rules would not go into action. But the implementation level of this regulation is very much questionable if it is in line with EU standards. And you know that something is signed by law, but even in Slovenia a lot of things are regulated by regulations. And this amendment that we are making today merely makes it possible for Austria to complicate our workers, craftsmen and entrepreneurs with stupid and pointless bureaucratic obstacles, then I think we have to apply the same reciprocity to Austrians here. I have no problem with the fact that the Austrians require our entrepreneurs or people, the Slovenians who work in Austria, to be paid for the same work as Austrian workers. With this working standard, I don't have a problem. I don't have a problem with this being proven by a payroll. But no one will tell me that all this evidence is necessary and at any time to have it with you and even translated into German. This certainly does not contribute to the normal running of things and to the free market. And these regulations on the Austrian side were designed to hinder us, very simply. And all that is our wish, and here, the Secretary of State, I absolutely acknowledge the correctness and I think that you have said that you feel a sense of urgency in relation to the past debate that we have had in the National Assembly, that we are listening to these stories in Austria, that you will probably be able to agree with me in this work, that the damage to this amendment will not cause the law or the state. If you say that this regulation or this amendment is a dead amendment that will not be implemented in practice, okay, and I think that this provision in the law could apply to certain sub-legislative rules so that if Austria does not remove these bureaucratic obstacles for Slovenian companies, we can also tighten the story for Austrian companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, chairman. We will support the amendment to Article 4 of this Act, and once it is an amendment to the NSi Amendment, we will support it in the United Left because reciprocity is one of the foundations of international law. And if Austria has better protection against social dumping than is the case in this law, it is normal for Slovenia to apply a superstandard. After all, even if these rules were only applicable to Austrian companies, the measure still makes sense because, after all, this guardian does not just social functions, but also developmental. Our companies protect against the ruthless competition of more developed countries. However, we know that a better car will in principle beat the worst, and these competitive conditions within the European Union are very uneven here. If I keep going. Of course, the United Left does not support a business model based on posting workers and agency work, because it is an expression or a business model, if you want, a business economy. The development of the Slovenian economy and the crisis of Slovenian society in themselves testify to all the holes that such a development model has. In recent decades, our political classes and capital holders have privatized large business systems that have been the vehicle of development. By doing so, the domestic small economy has been cut off from their subscribers, whether it is contracting in terms of business partners in these large systems or whether it is the purchasing power that these large systems have used and then people can buy and afford the services of this small economy. However, what has happened is that this small sector has been inflated, but at the same time it cannot function normally without interfering with the practices of extreme exploitation, not in all sectors, not in all cases, but in general, it remains so. Marof Trade and all these other Slovenian construction and transport companies, which live only from subcontracting abroad, are only a extreme case and a symptom of economic disintegration, as I just described it. What the consequences of such a development are, we know, because we deal with them every day in the National Assembly. Slovenia is becoming a country of independent entrepreneurs, mostly not even entrepreneurs, even less independent, but it is a hidden working relationship, the ordinary proletarians who the employer forced to open up before the 2008 crisis were 55 000, now 70,000. This is a travesty symptom, which the Ministry of Labour has not limited in any way, which has subsidized it. And even though we have had economic growth for three years now, we have more and more people moving out. And this brain drain isn't cyclical anymore, it's permanent. And here we see a Latvian scenario where one third of people with higher education fled the country between 2002 and 2009 and are now working abroad. These are the consequences of such a development model, which relies on the business economy and the high level of exploitation, even the illegal, illegal exploitation of workers. Well, instead of the government giving itself up on the road to stopping the neoliberal policies that have brought us into this mess, they continue. It continues to privatise and wants to sell off some of the parts of the normal economy that we have left. It supports individuals to the detriment of public institutions, such as in the field of pharmacy, health care, funeral services, where they can get away with these moves. And instead of developing and educating staff for a serious breakthrough, the coalition wants to introduce apprenticeships, the real production of fachidiotes, and a scholarship for professions for Austrian and German companies or at best for their subcontractors who are registered in Slovenia. But this is really another story, but a broader framework in which we must read today’s legislation on sending workers abroad. As far as this law is concerned, I call on the coalition Members to support the two improvements that I have already mentioned on the committee when we have discussed it. The first improvement relates to Article 9 and the second to Article 15. The amendment to Article 9 has already been tabled by the coalition, but it is also necessary for the employer to submit an application for A1 form to the service delivery contract. In the beginning, the government resisted it, but under pressure from the Labour Advisory and Trade Unions, it finally agreed, thank God or thank Titus, and we will support that. The institution must not issue form A1 to anyone who does not prove that he has a contract with the contracting authority; there is little to do with the cygumig that has now been done because this was the first entry point for the rough exploitation of employees. Which brings me to the amendment of the United Left, which corrects Article 15, and I will touch that further. In my grave openings, let me say it's a subsidiary responsibility. If the subcontractor does not pay its employee, the contracting authority shall make this payment. This guard is often more effective than punishment. And we demand that the subsidiarity of responsibility be extended to all sectors of the economy, because this law provides for this subsidiary responsibility only for the construction sector and the entire subcontracting chain. It often happens that the contracting authority does not have only one subcontractor, but that subcontractor still has a subcontractor and that other subcontractor has a third subcontractor. If we only make the law that a contracting entity has to pay a direct subcontractor, we have done nothing because they will put one intermediary and another intermediary inside, and in the end the workers will draw again briefly. I don't remember very well, but I don't think there was practically any member on the committee who, when we discussed this law, wouldn't have touched the case of Marof Trade. Precisely, like Marof Trade, we want to prevent our amendment in the United Left. There was a chain of subcontractors and nothing helps you with subsidiary responsibility if it falls only on the first subcontractor because there are a few parasites involved. And it doesn't help if the law limits itself to the construction industry. Marof Trade did not deal with construction, so we do not see any reason to go halfway here to protect workers. For the government has limited this subsidiary liability in two ways, I will take it again – firstly, it should apply only to companies providing construction services, and secondly, the contractor is obliged to pay the worker only from its direct subcontractor. And once again, it's great that this fuse is, but it's very ineffective if we don't go all the way. The fuse is imperfect and workers in the case of Marof Trade, for example, would not be protected in any way. Therefore, we propose that subsidiary responsibility be applied to all sectors and is valid for the entire chain. Of course, there is a question here for representatives of the ministry, representatives of the government: Why not support our amendment? At the end of the position of the United Left, which I have presented, I have just said that there is not one single reason, nor a legal argument and an argument of systemicity, if you want, there is no reason why this shameless, cruel, illegal exploitation should be prevented in all sectors and across the whole chain.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Is there any other discussion on this article? [[Not]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u94	Now we're up to nine. Members whom I think this law has also received the most criticism and why the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia says it further improves the operating conditions for Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs who want to work in Austria. We were also warned by a special letter in the Chamber of Commerce that, in addition to all the activities and anti-dumping hysteria and the intervention on the Austrian side, even the Slovenian side is now sharpening certain operating conditions of our workers and our companies in Austria. Why is he actually going? The explanations of this law state that we are in line with the European Union Directive, but do not state in detail that this directive, which should be coordinated, proposes or recommends that posted workers be regarded as posted for more than eight days. However, when it comes to working in a foreign country that is below this limit of eight days, it is not considered to be a posted worker. Where's the point of the Chamber of Commerce now? The point is that for short-term, hypnotic works are taken into account the same standards as for some workers who are actually assigned to Austria for a longer period of time. Of course, an entrepreneur or an undertaking needs more bureaucratic procedures to be sent, and the Chamber of Commerce also explains that this will complicate the matter. If I say very detailed, there is a difference if a messard makes a table in Slovenia and goes to Celovec only to be assembled and does so in one day, as if a mizzard sent his workers from his company to work in the Austrian Koroška for two or three weeks or a month, and that in these directions, when it comes to short-term work, for the first assembly or for some quick 24-hour assistance, we should remove bureaucratic obstacles in these matters. To explain what our amendment is actually proposing to this Article 9. Our amendment to this Article 9 proposes very simply that, for workers who have been posted for less than 8 days, it is not necessary to carry out all those bureaucratic procedures which are otherwise carried out to send workers to a foreign country for more than 8 days. In short, we are trying to maintain some common sense simplification when it comes to hiccups, when it comes to some short-term editing, that, in addition to all the complications already caused by the Austrians, we are not additionally bureaucratic and we are confusing ourselves with domestic regulations. This is one point that we are trying to present or defeat in this amendment. The second is in relation to this form A1, which was referred to by the Secretary of State to shorten the acquisition deadline. We are shortening this acquisition deadline to 3 days because it seems more than enough for the ZZZ to issue this form. These are sort of the main two points of the amendment. If we do, I hope that our amendment will be adopted, by adopting this amendment, we would in particular reduce our domestic bureaucratic obstacles to the work of our businesses and craftsmen outside our borders. Once again, of course, there is a limit, and this is eight days. We probably have a good argument because we are doing everything in accordance with the EU directive. Even the EU Directive has a special feature, and this is that all workers who are assigned to a foreign country for a shorter period of less than 8 days are not considered posted workers. Here again, the question arises why we would again like to be more papal than the pope and some legislation even more acute than the European Directive. I probably understand the Ministry's point of view, and probably the Secretary of State will base this on the result of the coordinations between trade unions and craftsmen or employers. Surely there are also cases of bad practice where some Slovenian employers have been spreading this working climate or exploiting workers, but because of these bad examples we must not generalise all things on the whole Slovenian economy and on all craftsmen. I think that the vast majority of them are still doing fair work and that because of a few bastards or those who do not work in accordance with the rules and exploit workers with additional bureaucratic complications, it is not fair to punish all craftsmen and entrepreneurs. The state knows exactly who is playing our system, who is working against the rules and should punish the one with inspection services, with other tools available to the state, but not with additional bureaucratic complications and records of all those who want to work in Austria. I think that we should or that this Parliament should understand this point and this amendment in the sense that if the Austrians are already making it difficult for us not to complicate it ourselves. And another thing that comes along, and I think it's going to hit us on the other hand, just like that change in the dual status of pensioners, when the pensioner was no longer allowed to pay a small contribution and then get a full pension and be able to maintain their activity when the changes took place, a lot of those espions closed. I do not want to see this bureaucratic obstacle, which the law provides for, now again, cause some Slovenian companies to set up businesses in Austria. At least from the Chamber of Commerce it was already heard that even among Slovenian entrepreneurs, there were calls to circulate, say, in ignorance, agents of Austrian economic associations or employers' associations, which encourage Slovenian entrepreneurs and craftsmen to set up a company in Austria, and that for a certain period or at least part of their employees should also be employed in these Austrian companies. I think it's a very sophisticated game of how Austria wants us to make as much money as possible. If I draw a very simple line, if you have a Slovenian company that has employees of our citizens, even though these citizens occasionally work in Austria's Koroška, these citizens still pay the whole amount or a large part of everything in Slovenian pension health and such and other cash registers. They are of particular benefit to the Slovenian state. However, by encouraging them from the Austrian side to establish businesses in Austria and by employing workers through these companies, it means nothing more than that these people will not pay any more contributions in Slovenia, but will pay them in Austria. That is why I am telling you that in this way they are so subtlely drawing the maximum amount of money that they can afford, and we are even helping them with certain bureaucratic measures in these matters. I really want this amendment to Article 9 to be adopted and thus to do everything we can, and this is to remove unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u96	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues and colleagues! We have also tabled an amendment to this article in the SMC Group or coalition, which is the amendment to the proposal for a law on cross-border service delivery, the main purpose of which is of course to regulate legislation that touches labour law, and in particular to regulate it in a way that will create much more work ethics when we are talking about labour law. Regrettably, in the past, this has also been used several times in terms of abuse of the referral institute and violation of the rights of workers, who, of course, were sent abroad by employers. In such cases, there is no other option than to keep policy up-to-date in response to such problems, even in a way that certain restrictive admissions to violators of such labour legislation can be much more educational. When we talk about restrictive receptions, we also need to speak in the light of the equal position of businesses when we are talking about competitiveness. I understand the concerns presented in the position of the Chamber of Commerce. We have also heard them at a meeting of the working body which addressed this bill, where they themselves have said that they have been dealing with this issue since 2011. But unfortunately, we are in 2017, things have remained unchanged. And here we need to be honest, even the Chamber of Commerce is not with some internal acts that would also touch membership, or that somehow through some internal acts it has not done enough to point out this issue. The fact is that the Chamber of Commerce does not have a mandate to amend legislation, but has a mandate. And today we are adopting a law that will cut through this problem or this Gordy knot that has taken place around this problem. The current legislation is regulated so that a Slovenian company wishing to provide a service in another EU Member State must obtain form A1 at the Health Insurance Institute for each posted worker. This is a form proving throughout the European Union that this posted worker is involved in social security. Given the results of economic growth, when it is so obvious to us that the government has actually done nothing. Looking at the results of economic growth over the last two years, where growth has been recorded, as a result, there have also been abuses in the field of the posting of workers abroad. Indeed, economic prosperity has also increased the activity of Slovenian companies abroad, who are travelling abroad to their workers. This proved to be a major abuse of form A1. And this bill pays particular attention to how this form is obtained. When we talk about abuse, we are talking about workers from Slovenia being sent abroad through various straw companies, where the employer, before sending them, obtained the form A1, the workers went abroad and then, say, the next day the employer checked them out. The result was that the workers did not even know when they came back, not only did they not have paid contributions, but they did not get paid in the end. Today's proposal for a law provides for a tightening of the conditions for the issue of form A1 and will also check whether the employer normally carries out an activity in Slovenia for which he sent the worker abroad. It will also be clearer when this form can be obtained and under what conditions this form will then cease to apply. In this respect, we have also tabled an amendment that the entrepreneur must also demonstrate by means of a service contract that its intentions are not only fair but, above all, justified. The amendment tabled by the coalition Members will, of course, also be supported. However, I fully agree with the fact that various embassies remind us of violations of labour law, especially the Embassy of the Republic of Germany, because these violations often occur in their country that we will not change this law and we will not be sufficiently socially responsible if I may say so, until the Ministry has also complied with the inspection services. Indeed, there is still an open field, for which I would like the Ministry to unify itself as soon as possible with inspection services, concerning the acquisition and extension of powers, as we say, if we want this law to work in practice, as we wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Please sign up. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment proposed by us and the amendment proposed by Nova Slovenije, given that they will be voting first. However, we will not support the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD coalition's parliamentary groups because they bring further obstacles and require additional documents from employers. It was interesting to hear earlier from the Secretary of State, Mr Pogacar, who said that this law did not create additional administrative obstacles. Too bad he's not here because I'm gonna ask him directly, based on the case. I worked alone for two years at the company Marmor Hotavlje in the Poljanska Valley, the company manufactures high-quality stone materials. The company survived this crisis solely because they focused on the foreign market, Austria, the Netherlands and the Netherlands, mainly because they produce high-quality materials for yachts, sailboats and so on. This is a company that employs about 150 employees in the Polish Valley, a lot of families depend on this company, a firm that is certainly an example in its industry. Now I am interested and would like to be answered by the Secretary of State. Employee of Marmor Hotavlje, who works on assembly, is now called from Austria to the company to order a kitchen counter, a bathroom to put pressure on, and the company immediately sends the fitter up to collect the measures, then gets the preparation of the work and the production of the bankruptcy. After this law, which is now, will be said by those who work in a commercial in the company Marmor Hotavlje, yes, we can send someone, but because of the law we now have, you will have to wait for a minimum of five days, it will be possible to do so before, but by 5 days is the time we get this confirmation. Now it was a business trip. Will the law you are proposing continue this business trip and be able to work on the assembly immediately go to Austria to collect the measures or will it have to wait? Because if we have to wait and he won't be able to get on the road right away, then they're additional bureaucratic obstacles. Yes, how, Mrs. Slug and Shergan? You obviously don't know what you're suggesting. For this reason, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has proposed that up to 8 days be considered a short-term referral and this is not necessary. And the Chamber of Commerce also wrote, and now I'm wondering if they're lying on this side or lying at the Chamber of Commerce, because one of them is obviously lying that you had this in your original proposal when you were preparing this law, on March 4th, and then such a solution fell out of the law. That's all I care about. If someone calls the company Marmor Hotavlje from Austria, would they order a counter, or could they say the one from the commercial monter, right now go upstairs, as it is now, pick up the measurements and come back to the process running, or will you have to make a request, a variety of contracts? Because then these are additional bureaucratic obstacles. For this reason, both in New Slovenia and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose an amendment that if cross-border service delivery is carried out as a work of the first installation or service that does not last more than 8 days a month, this is treated as a short-term work with the insurance base 01. And second, when this product is made, and when it comes to the work of first installation: Can they go to the field immediately to set this matter up or should it wait again? Because if they can't go into the field as quickly as they can now that the product is made, then they're additional bureaucratic obstacles and they don't argue that this law doesn't bring any additional bureaucratic obstacles. That is to say, these two things would interest me to begin with, Mr. Secretary of State. The first one's been ordered. If someone goes to collect pressure measures, for the counter, for anything, can he leave the company immediately when he gets the call, or should he wait for these papers? And then there's the other one. When the product is made and it goes on assembly for one day, for a few hours, can they go as soon as the product is packed, or should it wait to be applied for documents first and then sent? As we explain the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, the Chamber of Commerce also interprets it this way. This is also the case with colleagues from NSI, which is why these amendments are proposed. And it will be possible for such services to be established abroad, if we speak in concrete terms – in Austria. And don't say that the law doesn't bring additional bureaucratic obstacles. And the other thing is form A1. That's when we cut back. We said to go from 5 working days to 3 hours. They said the proposal wasn't serious. We gave three hours because I think you can arrange everything information, that you already have an information system, that you go to the e-VEM portal, that you ask for it, and you get it back when the information system checks it out. Since you don't have it, we've suggested that you go from 5 days to 3 days. Again, it follows the recommendations of those who do so, those who create added value in this country and fill this cash register, that is to say craftsmen and entrepreneurs. This is also an additional obstacle. If you were to think seriously that this is not an additional bureaucratic obstacle, you would first set up an information system, as the health insurance officer said at the board meeting, that once again you do not have an information system that would allow, as in case you want a health insurance card, if you lose it, if you run, click on that portal, I did it in December, in ten minutes I got a certificate. First, set up an information system that will allow such a practice and that will eventually relieve the employees of the state administration, without completing a request on this portal for this form, that physical interaction between the different authorities when it comes to verification is necessary, that is to say that the person must verify this, but that he will check the information system automatically and can in fact then get the certificate back in fifteen minutes if the system finds that everything is okay. It is not, however, that one person employed there checks this foot in systems whether these permits are or are not insurance. In short, it is an additional bureaucracy; it is an additional burden for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. As a result, we will again be running out of jobs abroad, as we already have and as we have. Yes, it is economic growth, but economic growth, as the colleague has already pointed out, is mainly at the expense of exports, in relation to cross-border directions, but will result in companies being transferred abroad. That's also what the Chamber of Commerce warned us about. And we're going to lose jobs again and the money we're getting in the cash registers by paying our contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I would only ask the representatives of the Ministry to be defined before our amendment to Article 15. I have made this call in the previous debate, and it has lost its response. In fact, it is obvious that the Government opposes our amendment, but I see no reason why, because this law on the posting of workers abroad introduces subsidiary liability for subcontractors and in the case of the construction industry. We simply add that subsidiary liability applies throughout the chain of subcontractors and is non-discriminatory in all sectors. The government has offered a partial solution here, and we have taken a few steps further. That's what I want to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you very much. We have already discussed this law in very detail on the committee and have already found on the committee that the law is intended to protect the weakest. All the cases that have been exposed, which have been media-exposed, which have been exposed in our debates, to the topics on which we have sat at least four times on the committees, and have listened to the migrant counsellor, this is now a response to what has been exposed. I must say that in the past we have listened by the public, by the media, also by various organisations and associations, how it is necessary for this matter to be born. Among those who called for this issue to be settled were the OZS and the GZS and the FURS Health Insurance Institute and so on. And the miracle when we get to this law is that those very entities that were very loud earlier in calling for how to protect workers and how to deal with them are the loudest, because we tell them you'll have another task here and here, and that's exactly what's not right for them right now. Now, again, the problem is that we've found that they're going to have to do something else now. And that's unacceptable, as I've already said on the board. Unacceptable. It was said that the law had been coordinated in social dialogue for a year and a half. A number of the solutions that were were very detailed. The solutions that are in this proposal today are the very fruit of these coordinations and weightings, as I have already presented in the position of the Group of Members, on the one hand, between protecting the worker, protecting the weakest and, on the other hand, the free economic initiative and removing administrative barriers, and so on. So here are some things that need to be considered and picked up some middle way, once at the expense of one, twice at the expense of another. But I definitely stand by and advocate that this law does not create additional bureaucratic obstacles. If that's what you're saying, then you haven't read it properly. Comrade Mahnič, for the installation of the counter, Marble Hotavlje will be able to go on the road in one minute or in ten, depending on how quickly the business secretary will write a travel order [[advertising from the hall]] It's a travel order. It's a travel order. Once again, a travel order has been written. Just like he's done so far. But if it's not there, it's another story. It doesn't have anything to do with it, because it's a fact. Both European legislation and this law do not distinguish between the number of days or travel tasks or cross-border services. Nowhere. But it does suggest that any such work is judged under actual circumstances. And taking measures for the counter is now a travel order and there will be a travel order tomorrow and it will be in two years too. With a travel order. Pika. Just like before. There's no difference. I find that I also read these letters, you won't believe them, you won't believe them, I will read them, but I will also check them, and I will find that these associations are no longer a credible interlocutor, they are not. Because when I go to check this out, I find that the statements that are in there don't hold. And I also find it unacceptable that the things that should be resolved in social dialogue are passed on to Members and are being resolved on our shoulders here in this house. And what's written in there just doesn't hold. We should check it out. I don't know if it makes any sense. I've been working very closely on the committee. There it was said that the ZZ will receive some additional tasks. Yes, of course, the state should act rationally and use existing records, existing capacities, existing personnel. It's the only rational path. And the ZZZS also agreed, I have already said when a joint meeting was held between the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, where this matter was absolutely addressed. Even today, I find it as incredible on the Committee that the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia with almost a thousand employees and with such an educational structure as it has, says more than half of the employees have VI. the level of education or higher, these tasks could not be performed. As far as bureaucratic barriers are concerned. Comrade Mahnič, you have denied yourself in your debate, first you spoke of bureaucratic obstacles, then you said in three sentences, when you talked about the time the A1 form is issued, but you said, you go to e-VEM, you submit the application and you get A1 back. So you denied that this was a bureaucratic obstacle, because it's so easy to go to e-VEM and give up your role. So there's no bureaucratic obstacle, so let's see how long you've been waiting in another country. Writes, Belgium up to five days, Croatia up to 30 days [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u103	Mr. Mahnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u104	Estonia 30 days, Hungary 21 to 30 days, Poland not more than 7 days, Slovakia not more than 45 days, Sweden several months. Well? You were also on the committee where you heard the representative of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, which you are now defending, why they cannot issue this form A1 within three hours. And I think if you don't believe us, just trust him and accept that they just need as much time as they need. And as far as red tape is concerned, the employer goes to the e-VEM, applies for the A1 form, submits a contract of employment, adds a new service contract, which we have made with this amendment, and this is it. He doesn't have to go anywhere, he doesn't have to do anything else, he doesn't have to do any more. Simply via the e-VEM system submits the application. That's all. As far as the time limit is concerned, I've said what I've already explained to you. Thus, neither in the EU nor in our legislation is it demarcated by the number of days, whether it is a cross-border service or not. As I said, and once again, I stress, given the actual circumstances, it is necessary to judge. The travel order remains the same as it has been before. For the rest, A1 forms. But there's a third option. There's a third option. And this is that an employer in another Member State where the service is provided for a period of time or a few hours shall apply for insurance. He can do that right away. That's a possibility, too. And now for our amendment. Of course, the claim made by Comrade Kordish that the Government had to be convinced that a service contract should also be submitted. I should tell my colleague Kordish that this provision already existed in the original proposal of this law and then went out with the amendment, so of course it does not. And now we're bringing her back. Why? Because we have spoken in the field with various actors and we have found that it would be necessary for this contract to be submitted in spite of all of this, on the basis of the determination of what kind of service the employer will actually perform. Since the ZZZS can otherwise look into the AJPES record and determine which activity this employer is registered for. This does not mean that this activity is indeed involved in the specific provision of the service. It is therefore essential to submit this contract, from which it is possible to establish it, and in addition the submission of this contract is an additional plus in terms of worker protection. In fact, the ZZI may also compare the data contained in the employment contract, the description of the work and tasks of the worker or his job, and this is compared to the service contract, of course also with the activity for which the company is registered. Here, however, such abuse is very difficult to come by. In fact, I was informed that there were even cases in the field where welders from third countries traveled to Western Europe, to facade buildings, or to do some construction work for which they were not allowed. This is therefore also an additional safeguard obtained by means of the submission of a service contract. Of course, there is also a clear indication that this is a business secret, namely, this service contract, according to the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, is a business secret. If we look at the Company Act, Article 39: “Business secrecy is considered to be the information for which a written decision is thus established.” So not all the documents of an employer and all the contracts are business secrets. That's one thing. Second thing, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is, of course, authorized to handle sensitive data. All the data it handles are personal data and, of course, is not a more authorized person or a more credible person who would be able to protect the data it acquires for some purpose, so it cannot be disputed that, simply by submitting a service contract, we are saying that this is controversial because of business secrecy. And another thing, of course, we are adopting this law because there have been violations on the ground, because we have already been warned and perceived as the most critical of how these abuses are taking place, how these violations are taking place. Accordingly, other Member States have already taken certain measures, specifically through their embassy, Germany requires certain visa documents, for example. And the German Embassy has been demanding all the time, there is one special form that the employer must complete with them and in point 7 of this form reads: “A certificate from the service provider which must contain the following information: a description of the service that the applicant is supposed to provide, the start and the intended end of the service in Germany and the place of service in Germany, an indication of the address with a postal number.” At the same time, the introduction states that documents must be submitted in an original and one photocopy. Therefore, the employer can transfer this information to this document, while the situation on the ground is such that I have information that employers here have no difficulty in submitting an original contract to avoid this red tape, and the submission of this original and one photocopy does not constitute any business secrecy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. It's a replica. Here you go, Mr. Jean-Mahnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you, Vice President. I would respond to the part where the controversy was, first of all, whether it would now be those who, when we spoke specifically about the case of Marmor Hotavlje, would be able to go to that editor who went after the measurement, whether he would have to wait or when he went to the assembly, whether he would be able to go immediately or have to wait and how he was doing with the mission. That's how I explain it. Article 3 defines the term: “The cross-border provision of services is the temporary provision of the activity of an employer or a foreign employer by posting workers to work.” This is what it says when it goes to be mounted, it goes to the service that is defined in this law. And then six. The Article states in its obligations: “Before the start of the operation of this service, the employer or self-employed person shall obtain an A1 certificate.” I didn't make the statement. I asked the case. Will he be able to go without the A1 certificate to install the bathroom?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you so much and have a good day together! Our entrepreneurs are very successful and very competitive. And we can also understand from this title, on the basis of their success in Austria and their performance, competitiveness, we can understand the adoption of such strict, non-lifely, cruel legislation by the Austrian authorities to our entrepreneurs. Indeed, in the future it is virtually impossible for our entrepreneurs to perform their services in Austria normally. And a key argument in this law or hope that we have had, in particular, from this point of view, what we can do, our country, to protect these people, or not to impose further obstacles on them in our operations or in our cross-border business. And the key part of this legislation is precisely this article and the amendments that follow this article, of course. I'll just define myself as to our amendments. See, if the amendment of New Slovenia is not adopted, we can seriously talk about additional burdens on entrepreneurs. Let's just see what we lose by, for example, entering into the law, that for less than 8 days a month, it doesn't have to count as a posting, it's a business trip. Is this contrary to the directive imposed on us by the European Commission? No, no, no. This is not contrary to the directive. Then why don't you tell me why we don't like it? Why would they impose extra burden on me and perhaps additional legal penalties when adopting this legislation? I don't see any argument against it. There is only one thing missing in this House - if the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, reminds us, look, we do not have to have these people for those enemies of the people who always want something and always oppose us, it is not necessary. And any well-intentioned proposal proposed by any other opposition party, let it be argued more carefully. And I think that a key part of this law, then we'll get to this time-response, whether it's 3 or 5 days, we'll just put the work way back in and we're not in any kind of wrongdoing. If I have understood Mr Tabakovic correctly before, the key argument is that there have been many abuses in this area in the past. And they're talking about employers. We're doing the wrong thing here, you know. Blame to those who give bread, who pay many taxes and give wages to men. Here we do real injustice to employers, craftsmen, entrepreneurs because we throw everything in the same basket. I believe there are a lot of crooks in this country. Not all politicians are fair in this world. Do you agree? But everyone's gonna say, "Yeah, I'm honest." And not all entrepreneurs are honest, and there are also frauds among them. But why mark everything as a fraud? Tell me. And to make such strict legislation for everyone in this regard. Why do you cheats just throw it all in the same basket? We have a lot of other, better, more human, I'm going to say, convenient things, say, control of inspection services and so on, that those fraudsters who exploit workers could otherwise be brought to justice to answer for that. In this part, I agree with this intention of the law to protect posted workers, workers on business routes who are exploited by employers. We have heard cases by Mrs Slug about how the workers went abroad and were abused, how they were checked out after one day and so on. Yeah, I understand that, but not to condemn all entrepreneurs, including those who are honest. Those who are fraudsters must be condemned, and others given the opportunity to be rewarded through legislation. In fact, where is the whole core of this problem, which has already been discussed by colleagues – also in this time response, which is defined. Look, at this age of information technology, it's unimaginable that we write down five days of response for some form. Please, come on! Not to mention countries, Poland, Slovakia, this is without reference to comparing ourselves with other countries when a form is issued, this is irrelevant. But let's just say we're the best and we can do something right now. I'm not interested in other countries in this regard. And I think we can write here, if you don't accept our amendment, for example, that sending abroad is all that is over eight days a month, then at least accept that we will look at the state in the information age, at least three days, well, or immediately, it will sound better in the 21st century, really. I recommend you support this amendment of ours, because this amendment separates between whether we're going to be living with legislation or we're going to be inanimate. And that we will no longer talk about all the entrepreneurs who travel workers abroad, that they are all crooks. No, not all employers are crooks, we must not do wrong to these people, because their success also depends on our wages if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, please sign in. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'll try to be brief this time. First of all, I would like to say that I will support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia. The second thing that seems important to me, and it is right to stress it, which has already been highlighted many times today, what the purpose of this law is. There's a lot of shit going on about posted workers, and it's definitely important for these people to get their hands on it. At the same time, it must also be understood that we have honest employers, and we have those who are corrupt and abuse every law, who will also abuse what we propose and will be discussed today in the National Assembly. I must say that those who are corrupt employers are already in the final stage to move their company to Slovakia and so on. I even know companies that have done this before. So those wicked ones will look for all possible solutions to protect their personal interests and do what they think is right for them. But this is absolutely unacceptable, and I agree with that. And it is right that we adopt certain marriage solutions, as this law brings, so that some things are really on our finger. I think it's very important that we separate between corrupt employers and those who are honest. I'm here today defending two things, one is to prevent abuse, and the other is to separate between the corrupt and the honest. And not those who are good, because of these corrupt employers, put even more administrative burden on them. Mr State Secretary, if you speak for me, I would really ask you - I will not read the amendments to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry because you certainly have them, if you do not, I will bring them to you, but you do, do you have them - to specifically answer me: Why do you not support the amendment to Article 9, paragraph 6 and paragraph 9 of Article 9, paragraph 9 proposed by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry? Please comment on this and the Government's very clear position on these two amendments. Please, that was what I thought was important, to which I wanted you to answer very specifically, to express your position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Sluga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I have never in my debate, not today or on the committee, said anything over the employers. And I've never even mentioned employers or worse to throw them in the same basket. I have always stressed that this law is designed to protect the worker, and from this point of view it must also be looked at. Because of the events that I have already mentioned, that we have all mentioned and that have happened and are still happening. So it's just from this point of view. And I have to agree, of course, there are many good employers, there are many. But they are also the ones that make these violations happen. That's why we've adopted the law and this law far from being strict, as my fellow Vrtovec said, or I don't know what word he's already used, because let's take a look, let's take a look at what's in here. What are the terms? »The employer usually performs activities in Slovenia.« So there's nothing further required from the employer here. He usually does his work, as he has done so far. Second thing. “It does not violate the more important provisions of labour law relating to the rights of the worker.” I don't know if anyone here in this room can raise their hand and say that they don't support it or that it's too harsh. Once again, I read: “It does not violate the more important provisions of the labour law relating to the rights of the worker.” What's strict here? And I'm going here for an explanation. It is said: "It has not been more than once to the employer in the last three years," even once, it is allowed, "no more than once legal penalty has been imposed for a misdemeanour in respect of payment for work, working hours or a misdemeanour in relation to black employment." What's strict here, I'm asking you. If it were up to me personally, it would be even worse because the Secretary of State knows. It is said that the following condition is: “A posted worker usually does not work in the country of destination.” Nor is this an additional condition to be met by an action. And "the service is carried out within the framework of the activity, for which the employer is also registered and carried out in one of the permitted ways." Say, I ask you again: What is strict and lifeless here, and I do not know what else, has been said today? We're back to editing this counter. The service journey is a business trip and will remain a business trip and cross-border service delivery. These are two different things that need to be judged under actual circumstances on a case-by-case basis. And the amendment of New Slovenia, now we will write in, okay, up to 8 days is not cross-border service delivery. What about nine and ten? And that's what it is? Why now 8, why not 9 or 5 or 12? Or maybe it's better not to have that number inside, but we can never trip past it. Either way, we judge whether it's a business trip or not, or we write an inside number and we say yes, and now what if it's a 9d, it's not, and it's not even if it is, but it's not now. That's why I don't support this amendment. I really don't support him. Because there's gonna be an obstacle. At the end of the day, there'll be an obstacle. He'll probably explain it to the Secretary of State. However, I repeat, the law does not constitute any additional bureaucratic obstacles. None. He even introduces some automation that was gone before, and now he's taking care of it. The whole thing goes through the e-VEM system, nothing extra or extra costs for the employer, inside are just things that will eventually protect the worker. If you want, also by actually getting paid for the work done and actually having paid contributions, because the CFSP will check monthly to see if these contributions are paid for every worker who will provide the service in a cross-border manner, which has not been done so now and no one has checked it and now we have no questions about why no one checks it and now it will be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Member wondered why 8 days, why not 9. Mrs. Slug, why is the minimum wage of 672, why isn't 673 euros legal? Yeah, that's the same thing. It's a matter of legal certainty, yes you started it, why, why, why, why, 8 days why not 9. Here, I'll pay you back: why the minimum wage is 672, why it's not 673. It's the same thing. Yes, of course it's the same, it's legal certainty in this case. Now, you've listed it nicely, and I agree with you when you've listed what the employer has to do or shouldn't have done. And I'm asking you, does anyone amendment this? Is there anyone who's trying to amend what you've been saying? Nobody's making an amendment. Now, if I have read the amendments correctly, there are no amendments to the rights to protect the rights of workers. There is no amendment to protect the rights of workers performing these cross-border services. Because here we all agree with what is stated in the law. And Mrs. Slug, we're obviously explaining differently what bureaucratic barriers are. You are, as a bureaucratic obstacle, explaining that someone has to write something or do a few clicks on the Internet. This is not a bureaucratic obstacle to me, but it is a bureaucratic obstacle that it must wait for a few days to receive an answer. That's bureaucratic. Look, it says in five days. I'm not saying it's gonna be five days, it could be on the same day. And when you point out how many countries Estonia has, how much Poland has, let's get out of this socialist thought that we have to be average, that we all have to be equal. We must strive to be the best in the Estonian Parliament, in the Latvian Parliament, in the Polish Parliament, when they deal with such laws or amendment, because they already have, say, see, and Slovenia has given 5 days, or Slovenia has given 3 days if it follows our amendment. Not to have this socialist thought that we must all suck, that we must all be equal in misery, some to have these miserys a little less, and some to a little more, because this is too much in our country under the left governments. And our amendments concern only two things that do not constitute a violation for workers and workers. However, they help employers and thus also workers and, of course, all citizens and citizens, because euro is coming into the state budget. And now I have to say that we're here, and I've been talking to my colleagues, really confused. Apparently it's a travel order, one is a travel order, then it's a foreign travel order, then it's a cross-border service delivery. The employer who works abroad provides a cross-border service and writes this in law in 3. Article, and then it's written under orders if it wants to do what it needs to do, and that it needs form A1. Unless now, Mr Secretary, when he has the next word, rises up and says what is the main proposal for a dispute between the NSI, the SDS on the one hand and the coalition on the other. If you say clearly and loudly here in the camera, for such works as I have spoken, you do not need form A1 because works of assembly abroad are not cross-border provision of services, nothing changes for you. If you tell me this, I won't be answering.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Pogacar has the floor. Mrs. Janja Servant, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u116	Mr. Comrade Mahnic. I was talking about you saying that the legislation we have on the table today is too strict and I don't know what it's all about. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, for the employers. [[…]] What's strict here? I read it to you. You don't understand. And one more thing, A1 doesn't make it through this law that we understand each other. You don't seem to know. The form A1 must already be kept through and made equally with the role. Same as now, and nothing's new. They're only new security guards to protect the worker. This is verified by the employment contract and the service contract. That's all. A travel order and a foreign travel order, which is by the way the same form, but okay, already exists and has nothing to do with the cross-border provision of services. Let's get a good look at what we have on the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Pogacar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think I am quite challenged by some issues in the course of the debate. I will try to go through the shorter ones and in the end you can focus more on the one where I felt that you were most fond of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. I'd probably get out of this. Mr Mahnic warned that the information system should first be given that the law is exactly why it is envisaged that the law enters into force as from 1 January 2018, in order to prepare information bases and information links in the meantime. [[…]] We need to know that all of these bases already exist today, and we just need to run an implementation loop to make this process as fast as possible. As far as the eyes of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia are concerned, allow me the following. The dialogue on this law took place for almost a year. The Chamber of Commerce worked together all the time. You claim that in one of the working versions of the law it was in there. Yeah, maybe. There were still many solutions in there that later fell out in dialogue with the social partners. Now I will say, but certainly not your reference or your colleagues from New Slovenia to a European directive. No, the European Directive does not say that the time-limit between business travel and travel is 8 to 10 days. The Directive merely states that, since the directive on referrals is shorter than 8 days, the employer is not obliged to provide him with all the labour standards in force in those Member States. This part of the Directive has been transposed into the third paragraph of Article 210 of the Labour Relations Act. We explained this during the coordination process last year in the Chamber of Commerce on virtually every coordination. That seems very important to me. Speaking of time for treason. Surely, I myself would like to see any deadlines for issuing any permit, any certificate, as short as possible. This is a real assessment by the health insurance provider, who will carry out this certificate, as far as that deadline is concerned, of the extremes they need to issue this certificate from the application, the checks of all the data. It's like a deadline. They may and may all wish to do so within one working day, two or three at the latest. Definitely. This is then the majority of the conditions laid down by the law for the issue of the A1 certificate will be checked online. One is only related to prior offences, and these can only be made at any request. That might be the reason for this deadline. Mr Vrtovec spoke about the success of our employers. Surely we have many successful employers operating, many successful companies abroad. You know, but the violations that have occurred to posted workers from the Republic of Slovenia to other Member States of the European Union, including Austria, may have been all of these violations because A1 certificates have been issued to everyone, including straw companies that have not settled contributions. These violations may also be a reason for the Republic of Austria to exercise stricter control over Slovenian employers. That's what we need to fix. As for the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to establish a time-limit of 8-10 days. The Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia has also been able to explain this in the course of negotiations and other employers' organisations, I think I will say at least five times, if not six times, and I must say that the other employers' organisations have no obvious problems with this. Perhaps just that, the bill, as I said in the opening presentation today, is a compromise. He's not perfect. It's not ideal for employers, it's not ideal for unions, it's not ideal for inspection bodies. He's not perfect. It is a compromise of options given at some point in view of the objectives we are pursuing. Now let's move on. As regards the amendment proposal, which would only be based on a time dimension of 8, 10 days, it could be a month or 15 days between a business trip or a posting. Such a condition has no basis in European rules. Today's regulation is also in force when the rules of the Health Insurance Office provide that up to three months it is a business trip. Do you know what happens in practice? People are two years abroad, and they're in charge of a travel order of up to three months. But this meeting does not have to convince me, the German supervisory authority, that not only will we check the Austrian authorities, the German supervisory authority will check whether you are really on a business trip or perhaps doing some work here as a posted worker. And in practice, what is happening today is that we have had such abuses in our country to accept a travel order, to take it on a business trip, and at the same time to obtain an A1 form, and to the Slovenian authorities it turns out that a person is on a business trip with a travel assignment, when he is German, that we are not only Austrian or Danish or any other supervisory authority of another Member State, but he is shown by A1 that he is posted. Since what is a referral and what is a business trip, it is ultimately also the assessment of the supervisory authority in which the Member State in which it is carried out. That is why this seems important to me. When you talked about administrative obstacles – because I will still come to Marmor Hotavlje, because I will get there. So just patiently, it's such a difficult topic that you have to give me a little more minutes. As far as administrative barriers are concerned, on the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia we have introduced that the insurance basis will change automatically at the Institute of Health Insurance. If you're on the insurance basis of 01, you're on a business trip through a travel order, if you're on the insurance base of 02, you're on your way abroad. And now it's going to be automatic. The employer will no longer have to communicate with the Health Insurance Office in this regard. I agree, of course, that the problem is that the tax treatment of the fact, whether the worker is on a business trip with a travel mission or on a journey abroad, is significantly different. That's right, but maybe in this bush, it's stuck in the corner of the Chamber of Commerce. When you mention, but now perhaps a specific question – because I think it is very important to also stress for the members of the Chamber of Commerce, entrepreneurs who may be watching us on television, we will also publish clear instructions on this distinction on the website of the Ministry of Labour, the Department of Health Insurance – the proposal for a law on cross-border service delivery, which is currently under consideration here, refers to employers who temporarily send workers to another Member State. So, I'm going, what shall I say, to build an object today. If the company is, probably, you mentioned a particular company, which we both probably imagine is an export-oriented and continuous work in another Member State, this company has two possibilities now and nothing changes for them. It is already possible for those persons who are permanently engaged abroad to at least partially register in an Austrian or German or Italian social security scheme and then do not use any A1 forms, or have the possibility to obtain an A1 form through the rules under this law, directly under the Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems. This form A1, this is specially marked and is obtained immediately. And now you've asked me whether, if you want, Marble Hotavlje, when he goes to measure, what you said, to measure, or whether the director goes to sign the contract. He's absolutely going on a business trip with a travel assignment. But when Marble Hotavlje goes and installs furniture in one, then he's on his way because he's doing the service. And that's where we get the difference. Is it a company that temporarily sends a worker to parts of the country – in this case, he will submit an application for the A1 form under this law. The verification cycle will be reversed between the supervisory authorities and will receive an A1 form. When it comes to work in the framework of the transactions necessary for the existence and conduct of the employer's activities, which do not mean direct exercise of the activity, that is then, on the basis of a business trip. However, if an undertaking which is a permanent foreign worker is not subject to this law, it shall be directly governed by the Regulation on the Coordination of Social Security Systems, so-called Article 13 and obtain an A1 form past those controls. But watch out, if anyone, not you, of course, but in public it seems, oh, great, we'll go through the one that's easier, and A1, it's quick to get. The Austrian, German, foreign supervisory authority will oversee what kind of company you are, whether you have the right A1 form. That's why we don't expect abuse in this place. I'm sorry if I've been a little too long, but I think it's an important topic to explain. We have explained it to both the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and others from the employers' associations that have adopted our explanations and thus have no problems. I hope that I have now successfully explained to the honourable Members as well. At the end of this debate, I should also be allowed to propose to the President, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that the Assembly at this meeting also carry out a third hearing if the conditions are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Would you like to discuss it again? It's not clear yet. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Vice President. On the contrary, everything is now clear. Not that it's not all clear, but now it's all clear. It is clear, as you said, that the law enters into force with effect from 1 January in order to establish an information system. This is said not to be a reason not to be 5 days or 3 days, but 1 day, because the information system can generate itself, as I said before on one case, in one day. So I really don't see any more reason not to accept this amendment for three days. And it is also clear, that is to say, if it goes only to measurements, it is a business trip, but the provision of services when it comes to editing and I was right. Once the case is packed, he will not be able to edit immediately, but according to this law he will need an A1 form and will have to wait for a maximum of five days. That's what the Secretary said.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate on Article 9? Thank you very much. Then I turn to the debate on Article 13 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this point 5 of the agenda. We're moving to six. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tasks and Powers of the Police, ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. In the spring of Györkös Žnidar, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I believe that you are very well aware that with the adoption of the current Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, a large part of the initial project on police legislation was completed in 2009, with a number of innovations, many of the advantages that this law has brought. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police do not change the basic principles of the law in force, but rather supplement and more precisely regulate provisions that have proved to be insufficient or insufficiently regulated during the implementation of the law in practice. This will ensure even greater legal and personal security for people and their property. The bill is the result of almost two years of preparation and very intensive and constructive coordination with the professional public, non-governmental human rights organisations and, in particular, the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Government of Law. The proposal was presented to interested parliamentary groups and all comments by Members and Members and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly were also examined. On the basis of the comments, amendments were put in place to take account of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. I will only mention some essential amendments below. The provisions on a modified identity have been supplemented with respect to the control and destruction of a modified identity, the conditions for the disclosure of the true identity of a police officer and the status of a police officer to be held by a foreign secret worker. The provisions on violence at sports events are further limited by additional definition to organised groups of fans, or further restricting the implementation of the measure to certain groups of persons in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Complementing the provisions on an enforcer, an electric paralyser, clearly determines what is considered to be a use only by trained police officers, and a more clearly defined monitoring of the legality and expertise of use. By supplementing the data collection on air passengers, PNR, the law already sets out who sets the assessment criteria and whose basic characteristics or assessment criteria are the travel modes of the perpetrators of the offences, which constitute a higher level of risk for their possible participation in worse crimes. With regard to the use of technical means by optical recognition of registration plates, it is now clear that these technical means cannot allow facial recognition. There has also been intensive coordination with the Information Officer, who still proposes that data collection on air passengers should not be carried out on internal flights. It should be known that the recently adopted EU PNR directive also allows Member States to include internal flights. And the EU Council unanimously adopted a declaration in which all Member States committed themselves to implementing Article 2 or PNR on their own. The information officer shall object to the optical recognition of the registration plates. The final provision was in line with the Legislative and Legal Service and constitutes an effective means of verifying the relevant facts and circumstances of the criminal service. Mechanisms have also been put in place to effectively monitor the legality and expertise of the exercise of police powers or to prevent abuses. In our opinion, too, the conditions for the use of unmanned aircraft or drones are specified sufficiently and are linked to the performance of specific police tasks. The bill also supports the State Council, which gave a positive opinion after the debate. The fundamental duty of the police is to ensure security, respect for human rights and strengthen the rule of law. In the face of changing security conditions, we will also be able to carry out our work effectively in the future by amending legislation, or police officers will be given the appropriate police powers they need to do so. The aim and purpose of the law is certainly an effective police force to live in a secure country in the future. There are also adequate safeguards to prevent excessive and disproportionate interference with the privacy of the individual and other human rights through the use of police powers. I also propose that, in the event that amendments to the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police will be adopted to less than 10 articles of the amended Law, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall decide to hold a third consideration of this Act at this meeting of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to adopt the bill, but of course we will respond to all your concerns after presenting the views of the groups on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at the 32nd meeting of the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government. 2. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the tasks and powers of the police submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government and published on the website of the National Assembly, in the Rapporteur on 3. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The National Assembly shall be held on the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at its 25th session. 12. 2016 held a general discussion on the proposal for a law and concluded that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Amendments to the draft law were tabled within the time limit of the SDS Group, the Joint Left Group, the members and members received amendments to the SDS Group's amendment and amendments to the Committee's amendments. In a supplementary explanation, the representative of the proposer, the Minister of the Interior, stressed that the Law on Police Tasks and Powers is a fundamental provision governing police powers. A part of a developed and democratic society is also the effective work of the police, with its preventive and proactive action particularly crucial. This must also take due account of technological progress, as it is only in this way that the police can maintain contact with the social reality that we are all subject to. In doing so, however, human rights and fundamental freedoms must be respected in an appropriate manner, although security is also a human right, as this is based at least on the provisions of Article 34 of the Constitution. An appropriate proportionate approach must be found which, on the one hand, will ensure the safety of citizens and citizens and will not unduly affect other human rights. The nature of police work is specific, as police officers daily interfere with the human rights and fundamental freedoms of others, but these interventions should be legal and proportionate. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the Legislative and Legal Service had given a written opinion in accordance with its competences, where for the most part it had been warned of certain inconsistencies in the text of the proposed articles, which had been abolished by further clarifications from the Ministry and by the proposed amendments to the Committee. In its position on the proposal for a law, the Information Officer stressed that it limited itself only to the part of its content which interferes with the right to privacy, in particular with regard to the processing of personal data. In this part, after her conviction, the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, which will not even eliminate the possible adoption of the amendments tabled by the Committee. It therefore insisted on all the comments it had made in its opinion of 29. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The representative of the National Council of State said that the Commission was in favour of the proposal for a law, in particular commending the wide-ranging debate and coordination of the applicant with the various stakeholders in the drafting of the bill. The Commission stressed the need for police officers to be given appropriate tools or technical means to enable them to work normally, following the technical progress and equipment of criminal associations and the technical progress of society as a whole. The president of the Police Union of Slovenia stressed that they support the law's solution in the union, as it is an important step towards modernising and modernising the police. The Secretary-General of the Police Union of Slovenia added to this his belief that a number of solutions, brought with them by the proposal of the law, could save the life of one of the police officers who lost him in recent years in carrying out their duties. In line with the debate on the parental committee, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 3 and 16 and amendments to the Committee following the discussion on the individual articles of the proposal. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 25th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the Articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13 February 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Who wants to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Marko Ferruga has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Minister and to the Secretary of State and to the others present! If you'll excuse me, I'll start a little bit wider, and then I'll define myself as to the amendments that have been given and that we're discussing. We Slovenians are such that we are always somehow separated. On the one hand, the police have a very high reputation, on the other hand we don't trust her, we come up with almost a hypothesis that we're coming to some police state, some repression that's unsupervised, and a variety of conspiracy theories that come from all sides, but a lot of focus is lost. Here I have a print of 7. February, the SO report, says Slovenians are pleased with the work of the police. Statistics show that 69.7% of the participants in the survey confirm and are satisfied with the work of the police. I still have 10 February, when there were informative days where it says that there is a great deal of interest among young people in the police profession. There are two, three things that are very important to say which way the debate will take place. If I go back to law school. What is the aim of the reform of police legislation? Modern, transparent law, which systematically and comprehensively regulates and sets out police tasks, their operation, security police powers and enforcement resources in one place. What does that mean? It wants to achieve, first of all, the effectiveness of police work, of course in the protection of life, personal security and, of course, property. What, though, will be new to this law? Use of new technical devices from paralysers, drones and so on and, of course, new coercive means. This categorical lack of confidence in the work of the police does not coincide with, as I said before, public research and the trust of people. When we talk about this, about the legislation itself, it is clear, I think, here to all that no law will allow any abuse to occur, too. And here we are all at the same time that adequate security guards are needed, enhanced control, both internal and external – civil society. As far as the police is concerned, it has set up the framework to be followed, it has internal control and at the same time we have an institution of external civil society from the Information Commissioner, the Ombudsman and so on. If we're talking about the police, as a national authority, at least as far as we're concerned in the SMC, this is a service that is highly professional and has our trust. As I mentioned earlier, deviations are possible, they are within this absolutely, but also with this legislation they will not be able to be resolved in a substantive sense. As far as this law is concerned, it should also be added that both police unions were also positive in the definition until the latter. A high degree of coordination has been achieved, both with the Information Officer, the Legal and Legislative Service with the Ombudsman, while also following international conventions and other practices in Europe, as regards police work and security guidance. That is why we believe in the SMC that this law follows the objectives of protecting freedom, including human rights, while ensuring security in the modernly organised democratic police. That's what you have to say. Because I think we've made a 25-year difference from that scare, from the last police. When we talk about this law, maybe we focus too much on certain segments, such as paralyzers and drones and some little things. And I'd like to specify the other 14 news that are. And if I'm accurate. More specifically, it is a way of making a modified identity, i.e. The following is a set of measures necessary to track the wanted person. Furthermore, harmonisation of the provisions on covert and dedicated control is that SIS2 information system which has been so controversial, but it has to be said that this has already worked, so that it is not new, but it is only consistent with the directives. Further, a more detailed definition of problems when police officers are allowed to conduct a security review procedure. Further, to supplement the provisions on the prohibition of approximation in order to protect victims of domestic violence. We have forgotten this in all this context of other matters, by adding here that the cooperation of NGOs and other organisations has been very much in this article. Furthermore, what has changed and is in this law, intensifying measures to control violence at sports events, which is not negligible and which somehow got lost in this focus of everything else. Okay, then we get to this article, which is an electrical paralyser, is called a new coercive agent. Then there are further, which is also very important, defined conditions for the weaponisation of vehicles and equipment which are not systematised and typified for use in the police. This is again one of the forms where it is possible to act successfully in the event of extreme forms of violence and terrorism. Further, it is very important to say what is also very important in this law – to define the conditions for the collection of data on air passengers, which also raised a lot of dust, by not losing context, why this was done. Then there is the use of technical means to optically identify license plates, this is also one of the articles that has raised a lot of dust, but here we must not forget that we are a transit country through which huge traffic takes place in all directions. Among those who walk and drive on our roads is not everyone with good intentions. So much for that. What else does this law change? It is said that it provides more precisely for the use of technical means in the collection of data for the purpose of carrying out police duties. Then there is another point, a record of persons to be identified, is said to increase legal certainty and reduce interference with the physical integrity of persons. Then what else is in this marriage? The record of the abduction, the sexual exploitation of persons, is said to also enable, facilitate the finding of the injured person and provide protection. Finally, the arrangements for data storage and DNA investigation records, dactyloscopics and photographed persons' records. It is said that all of this is in this law, so it must be said that it has really very broadly defined all these matters. However, if we are talking about how the professional public has accepted this, perhaps those who have seen Studio City yesterday may have had a conversation with Mr Petrovec and Professor Lobnikar, where Professor Lobnikar himself, who is teaching at the Faculty of Security Sciences, said that, if I may quote, "As it is now written in the last reading of the law, this is much better than it was at the beginning." It is said that we also have this said by experts. However, it is clear in all this that a proper balance must be found between privacy and security, while we also need to ensure the safety of police and police officers, which is sometimes something that is often forgotten, and of course also of our safety. All of this must be wrapped in some kind of operationality and efficiency. When we have all this, however, there is a clear need for control and control. So all these elements are somehow defined by this law and are also focused on the fact that the police are truly professional. When we talk about how and what else to do next, it is clear that at a certain time it will be chosen and seen whether things are right or wrong. However, if I speak and return now to these amendments, we will clearly support all our amendments, which have also been regulated and stressed in agreement with the Ministry. As for the other party colleagues, I regret to say that we will not, because we have already coordinated something, but we somehow think that our vision is right. Allow me this last thought, as far as SMC is concerned, that we trust the police, the secretary and the team. We believe that in recent times a very large step towards quality has been taken by this leadership, and in the final stage also by this government. With regard to changes in the social situation, to the changed security situation and also to the changed way the police work is done, these measures are time-consuming. And that's why we're going to confirm them. Once again, it goes to the police, calling it police and police for the work they've done so far and we're doing it in advance. On our side, they have all the support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much. But now we've heard such a beautiful ministerial speech with the strong inspiration of the influence of the Director-General. That's the law. There's nothing to add. I'm not talking about all the articles. You opened the debate on Article 6, if I understand correctly, and I will continue to make myself known. Now this is so, look, as far as we're concerned, I have to say that the previous police law, which has regulated the more police status and everything else, we're happy to support, there's a little more trouble here. However, we are not going to be or I am not going to be the one who is most opposed to this law, because it seems to me that it is necessary to consider something that is the legitimate wish of every police force in the world, from the first to the last, that it has as many powers as possible. It's real, it's normal, it's expected, it's nothing special. However, the question is how much policy allows her to do so in the light of the situation. At least, I think, at this point in time, the political situation is good enough for the police to go to what they want a little bit later. Because they didn't come to me with a single article in 2013. In 2013, we had this law in this National Assembly, I was sitting there, maybe right where the Minister is sitting today, about there, in the role of Minister, and I have to say something, they didn't bring me one of the same articles, and we adopted a new law at the time. As soon as this marriage came, I wondered what had actually changed from 2013 to today. I don't know why they didn't propose to me, say, paralysers, but I would have been for that time, and I didn't get any of the other things. Is that what I want to tell you? That there are favourable conditions for the situation as we have it and that the police have come legitimately. But you will allow as much as you think you will. Some things don't seem right to me. Most of all, I've got a problem with two things. Firstly, lowering the standards we set in 2013. With this law, you lower some standards and I'll tell you where. Secondly, despite Mr Ferluge's ministerial appearance, it must be said that the law is not in line with the information officer. If she could sit here today, and if she got the word, she would tell you an hour of sins that the amendments of the United Left are being remedied because they say, delete, delete, delete. [[…]] So this thing is completely out of line with her. Why are we lowering standards? See, the amendment to Article 6 is a typical reduction of these standards. Article 6 relating to Article 23 and Article 23 of the Basic Law means lowering standards. If this is a modified identity and ownership of police assets, which means that they will issue you a fake ID card, a fake passport, a false traffic permit and so on, this means, in practice, that we will know what we are talking about – if this is today connected to the judicial branch of the authorities Ah where, no, it is not true, this is a matter today in many cases with the Director-General of Police. [[…]] So, if this was an investigative judge, or prosecutor, earlier, the case now goes to the Director-General of Police. This is lowering standards, ladies and gentlemen. Whatever you call it, it's not, but it's lowering the standards that were achieved in 2013. Not just in 2013, but a long time ago. However, it must be said that this country is in this area of police law, if I may say so, but it has taken great steps to move forward, and it must be realistic in this regard. For example, by the year 2000, the minister had approved covert investigative measures in many segments. Minister. Can you imagine a minister as a politician? And now, as far as I'm concerned, the secretary would probably like to sign off on what secret follow-up I have. Well, I would like to sign something like that about her as a politician. But we've outgrown those standards. We've outgrown those things. Thank God we did. And it's a good thing we did it in 2000. But it's not right, but you know you're going back now with the standards to a lower level than it was long ago. Thus, if I say again in Article 6, I think that Article 6 should simply be deleted so that things of a modified identity of persons, i.e. the ownership of police funds, are in the judicial branch of government. Why? Let the prosecutor be the one to say that this one, I don't know, but from now on, Janez Novak will have Pepe Schraufenciger's ID card, because it's just necessary for police work. But now that's what the CEO's gonna do. I don't know, we're going down here, and I think the Director-General is going to be able to do this on a serial basis, because the standard of justification for it will be significantly lower than the standard of justification for the Prosecutor. So with regard to this article -- you're wrong here, you're going here, you're shooting through here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u129	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! If we start with Article 6, one fact needs to be highlighted for the starting point, namely that the existing law, namely the 2013 law, already makes it possible to apply these measures, and the purpose of the changes that are ahead of you is that we want to regulate this area more precisely with these amendments. So, clearly, the way to make an identity event separates from its actual use. It is also important to know that the way in which identity-making is made in order to carry out covert investigative measures is something that is fully regulated in other Member States of the European Union. Our explanation also clearly shows that we have based our changes on a very in-depth comparative review of the regimes of other countries. It is important to ask what is actually the aim of this change. The aim is to protect investigators with a modified identity and to ensure that their identity is not disclosed, as this means that their lives are also at risk. Such identity is used in investigating the worst crimes and, of course, constitutes a risky way to investigate these worst forms of crime, but it is an effective way of exposing criminal associations. I do not agree that this is supposed to be a reduction of standards, because it is necessary to take into account the fact that additional security guards have also been introduced in the proposed changes, so it is envisaged to monitor the specialised state prosecution at least once a year, and it is necessary to know that this is a very complex process, this is not just a matter of drafting a document, it is actually a matter of pre-forming the entire image of the person who will infiltrate the criminal association in order to break down the criminal association, to obtain evidence for further judicial proceedings, and if this image is not really accurately and comprehensively produced, then this person who is carrying out a very risky task will not, in fact, have some good examples of survival. However, I must also say that this amendment, as well as the other amendments covered by this Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, are not essentially appetites, are not the wishes of the police, but are also about the proposals that the police are obliged to draw attention to, to propose solutions, and the Ministry of the Interior has assessed that they are justified to be necessary, that they are proportionate. Of course, political weighing will be carried out or carried out with this meeting in the National Assembly. As far as the amendment to Article 6 is concerned, just for a little while. This article has been very intensively coordinated. We follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which found some inconsistencies in the original text, of course, this is welcome. This amendment does not change the contents of Articles 23 and 24, but regulates certain terms which are then consistently used throughout the whole article to make the situation even clearer, i.e. with regard to the design of the identity, the design of the identity and the adjusted ownership of police assets. A control provision has been taken into account that it is now clearly clear that control relates to a modified identity, a structured identity and a modified ownership of the police. It is also regulated by who, when and how it exercises control, has also taken into account the provision concerning the destruction of identity or the creation of the identity and the modified ownership of the police and has corrected the inconsistent or incorrect reference to the reasons for legal certainty and eliminated, as already mentioned in today's presentation or supplementary explanation, the dilemma under which the fact of the status of a police officer must be assessed by a foreign secret worker.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u131	I note that there is still interest in the debate. I'd like to propose an application. Here you go, the start of the application. The application shall be made. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Three good points came from my speakers, but I'd start where my colleague Ferlug ended up, with the confidence of the police, the ministers and so on. I say that in such cases, of course, we must have respect for the police, but also a certain measure of caution, and especially in the United Left we do not trust the Minister. So that's the main alarm. The fact is that the measures brought by this law are in some way increasing powers, at a time when we have a police force, which unfortunately, because of the measures, has lost some professional training in the sense that the secondary school has been abolished, that it is now going through a little faster procedures. Above all, another important thing here is that if we take this law along with the other two laws, namely the State Border Control Act and the Aliens Act, it is clear that these three laws originate from a common denominator or a common starting point, and this starting point is to some extent some kind of intimidation. If I paraphrase one of the two Marx that I like to listen to or read, I could say that even though this law looks like an increase in repression and it also sounds like an increase in repression, let it not confuse us, it is actually an increase in repression. Here is the whole problem of this law, these solutions proposed by the Minister or the Ministry. On the one hand, there is a paradox here, on the one hand, the Government, along with colleagues from the political right, has managed to create at least some part of the atmosphere in this society, that there are some extraordinary situations which, of course, endanger the safety of citizens and citizens or residents of this country, and on the other hand, now offers solutions or some measures that will ensure this security that is to disappear or disappear. And that's the problem with the whole three. I have to take it in kind of a package. In fact, it is not about any solutions that are offered. The fact is, the repression will no longer bring security. The fact is, more interventions into the right to privacy will no longer bring security. And the fact is that in the end we will actually lose each other, so and without security and without these rights. The main point is that, in fact, it has already been pointed out by colleague Gorenak, so that we have a whole bunch of professional concerns about these solutions, in the first place of course the Information Officer, and these concerns have been heard. The Ministry didn't fix them, the coalition didn't fix them, the government didn't fix them at the time, and they're still staying. Therefore, yes, in the United Left we propose deleting these controversial articles because these measures are simply foreshadowed. They are not proportionate, they go too far, but they are at least under-standard or not clear enough to act as the Ministry would or would like them to. This hearing is what it would take — to actually stop in some way by force introducing certain measures and actually listen to those who have some experience in it. Of course, yes, even to police unions, but as colleague Gorenak has said, probably every sector always wants more rights than it currently has, and that means any direction. On the other hand, it seems to me that the arguments put forward by our Law-Legal Service, as well as the Ombudsman, the Information Officer and so on, are valid, speak about some of the problems that this law can or will bring, and this is a matter that should be listened to, and also an appropriate law to organise or correct. I think we should find a solution somewhere else. Of course, the political situation is now beneficial for taking such measures, but perhaps it is because of these circumstances that we sometimes forget or stop thinking about alternative solutions, other solutions, including what the largest ruling party has promised before the elections, that is, the rule of law and more human rights. So here in a way too fast, it's happening too fast and too much under the impression of some kind of fear. However, if I move on to Article 6 or the amendment proposed in the SDS, we fully agree with it in the United Left and we will also support it when we vote. The fact is that there are some traps, some questions that are raised in this article, which can lead to the possibility that modified identities and resources can be misused. I'm not saying it's gonna happen, but there's always suspicion. Thus, we need some security guards or some appropriate solutions so that this does not occur. And if, at this point, it is not possible to do this differently than to delete this article, of course, it is what is the real move today. As we say, we support this amendment, and we will be with the others later.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u133	Mag. Bojana Muršič, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State! We've heard a lot. My debate will follow my debate from the general debate at the 25th regular session. I must say that I am sad that we have failed to harmonise and prepare amendments that follow the opinion of the Ombudsman and the Information Commissioner. Why we came so far and didn't get in line, I don't know, but it is true that the information officer on the committee made it clear that the proposal for a law is not in line with the Constitution and the Personal Data Protection Act. Therefore, once again, to us Members, we are truly careful in this law. This law does not have effective safeguards, so everyone should really consider whether this law is right to support or not. As the colleagues mentioned at the outset, the police want more powers than everyone else. It's up to us politicians how many of these powers we're going to allow them. Therefore, allow me to focus on the concerns of the information officer, who points out, that "no democratic society should be allowed to legalise the use of police powers allowing mass surveillance in a way that leaves their proportionate and legitimate use to the discretion of an individual officer, but it is always necessary to lay down clear conditions by law that do not allow broad interpretations of the admissibility of the use of such powers." Also, " privacy interventions that are allowed by the powers in place require adequate legal guardians to prevent possible abuses, as only general police supervision is not sufficient". I must say that there are even more controversial provisions for me concerning the collection of data on passengers during internal years. In my opinion, this is a disproportionate intervention into the right of air passengers to freedom of movement. Otherwise, at the outset, the Minister said that an option is allowed, but I must say that if an option is allowed – now we do not have a magnetogram, exactly as it has been said, that the directive, I think, allows for the possibility of this to happen – does not mean that we have to get it into law. That's my view. The information officer points out that there is no need to check all passengers on internal flights and to check them automatically. These are 19 types of data to be verified under this law without focusing on action in the event of a suspected individual. So this means to me that all of us who are going to fly are suspicious, and we need to be checked in advance. I don't know if that's necessary. At the same time, I cannot go beyond my general discussion on the optical recognition of license plates. Such collection of data by a large number of persons, although it is a certain period of time, is unconstitutional for me. Let’s caricature — Who Could Care About Where I Was Driving? Do we really not know that there could be a system abuse? Although he had already warned a colleague of mine, who said a little more that he was not actually a security guard. Because, of course, there are risks. However, we also have specific cases that clearly prove this. Once the system has been misused, it is simply not possible to recover, but we can apologize and do whatever it takes, but we cannot take a step back. I absolutely agree, however, that we all want effective police. I'm not gonna go to the paralysers, I'm gonna take some time, 'cause we're still having a debate. Although I have identified myself to those amendments, which I believe I must also support, which are proposed by the United Left. On us – and I appeal to us, including citizens and citizens asking us – what degree of privacy will the inhabitants and residents enjoy, so let us think carefully about what we will support today. It is up to us, people have chosen us to decide their fates in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u135	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I see you're not united now. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, okay. Well, at least that's how I figured out the provost so she wouldn't back things up now. Okay. Look, that's all I have to say on this matter. First of all, what the secretary said about the article she was talking about. Yeah, well, you said you'd let the D.A. control it once a year. It's a lower standard. Why? Because they've issued these permits so far. So far, they've allowed us to create an identity, and now the director of police will do it, and prosecutors will review those papers once a year. So I'm telling you, this is lowering standards, and nothing else, I won't tell you anything else. But I have to respond to Dr. Vatovec. Please tell him what I'm about to say. Discontinuation of secondary school is a major acquisition, not a lowering of standards. The Central Police School, which worked until 1998, then entered the last generation – by the way, the signature of the suspension was mine, and I think it was suspended today, but well, now this suspension has lasted for 20 years, but fine. It was a good move. Why? Since the high police school, the one for boys between the 15th and 18th years since 1967, was the typical high school of the police, which had only an eastern socialist bloc. And Slovenia was the last one to drop out of school like this, and you didn't have a school like this anywhere in the West. That education, which is today a basic police education, is now a higher education, which means that someone must have completed a four-year secondary school and then two more years to become a police officer. So I think it's a better and higher standard than what Dr. Vatovec said. True, many feel that we should still have that school. That's what many people think. But then Slovenia would be the only one in the world who would have a school like this because you don't have it anywhere else, at least not in Europe. Maybe some Korea, they probably have, I mean North Korea. So much for this, but with the lowering of standards, of course, I remain in the position, as I have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u137	Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. I need to apologize a little bit, but it doesn't cover as much of the subject as I do. I just flew in from another meeting. I can agree in part with Dr. Gorenak, but the point was that at this higher school level we should educate a little more people who would have a monopoly on coercion, if I put it that way. If I listen to this story, if we stop at the beginning of this Article 6 – when the Minister was in charge, she did not really deny what colleagues Gorenak and colleague Bojan and colleague Matthew had warned us about, but she did, in fact, explain to us what reordering identity is. You know, I can honestly say that in one of our broader families, we also have a man who works for DOA on the ground, hunts drug dealers in the United States, and it's very clear to me, although I'm not a linguist or what is the correct name of the area from which colleague Gorenak doctored. But she didn't – well, don't rush me – she didn't deny anything, she just told us what it was. If you wanted to turn me into Vinkot or Vinkot into me, you'd need some plastic surgery or you'd go to the drama for half a day if you did it, and you'd cost too much money. We've seen so many movies, it's ours. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, we'd save it here - on the dance floor. We've seen so many movies, but it's actually not funny, because it's really kind of, I'm not going to say two steps back, but a step in the wrong direction. In our own words, we'll bid ourselves farewell, and for a year you'll come and take a look. This reminds me too much of the story about the social work centre, where every year's report comes from a small commission, an internal committee, the ministry to look at and then we have a whole series of problems. It is likely that anyone accompanying this will begin to flash lights if not only the SD and the United Left agree, if the United Left and the SDS agree, if there is also agreement between the Information Commissioners and the Ombudsman. And also Dr. Lobnikar's esteemed colleague said it was better than it was at first, but he didn't say it was good. My classmate, by the way. In short, we have a number of problems and questions, and as colleague Gorenak wondered, what has changed so dramatically in half a decade? The Minister herself said – I can go out and pull out a magnetogram – that this law only coincides with a matter we call a refugee crisis, another somehow different. And as I said at the board meeting, you know, in some of the around-normal democracies, they don't write their own laws. They're already proposing, they want to, and they want to, and so on, but if you were watching that movie about Jackie Kennedy, what was Bill Jackie Kennedy saying? He says, "What we do is what we do in this byte." And that's actually a lot of times, if you say, a temple of democracy where we adopt laws with all the legitimate concerns. On the Internet it has already begun to spread memoirs where my beautiful picture since yesterday, made by journalist Dela, reads, “I'm sorry, but this law is unconstitutional”. And we have all too many such laws. Yesterday we had a terrible, terrible day in Slovenia, you know, for what, and we have to start asking questions about the violence of the system. About the violence of the system and who co-creates it. To a large extent, this is where we co-create it. Because of this violence of the system, we are then told at home that people are doing a film and some kind of aggression when they are suffering from weaker, sleeker, or those who cannot defend themselves. This is a problem that we have to deal more seriously with throughout the legislation. With all that I'm listening to here, this apology, I remember one famous Hungarian philosopher, György Konrád, and his concept of antipoliticalism, who was talking about the old totalitarian system, which he kind of said, well, because that system was what it was, but my head was still my head. It even says in one book, I was still able to do what I was doing in the bedroom. Come on, the cockroaches have put you in the wall, let us stand still, but through this kind of legislation, such an anti-politics will in fact no longer be possible. Some practices also show that these crazy mountains of data that are collected are not effective and that artificial intelligence is always not working very well. Look at the unfortunate case yesterday, it takes us half a day to get a video away. But if I give it to Botticelli Venus, and Facebook will start warning me in five minutes, get away, we'll move. It seems to me that we must look at these matters in this light and, of course, also in the light of Article 35 of the Constitution. I'll stop here. But then I will continue to explain the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u139	I note that there is still interest in the debate. I suggest we run another lap. I'm asking you to sign up. The application shall be made. [[advertising from the hall]] Article 6 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Go ahead. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you. I'd just answer this 6th article and then I'd answer everything else. I understand all the concerns, this Article 6 is, as has already been said, linked to Article 23, a modified identity. And here we have clearly written in the third paragraph: "Agreed identity, created identity and modified ownership can be used under this Article for one year of manufacture." Yes, it is true, the use is extended by the Director-General. And it's true, at the suggestion of a competent police unit. We both know what this is about. It's some kind of operationality and efficiency. But then there's the sequel, and then the head of the specialized state prosecutor or the state prosecutor who authorizes or doesn't. That's what needs to be said. And then the fourth paragraph, where it also says it's good again, that the prosecutor does at least once a year in police custody. So we still have this double cover here. However, it is also necessary to say that things are somehow very generalised here for everyone, but it is clear that a changed identity is not used for chicken thieves, but for the crimes of organised crime which, we know what their rates are. So, this isn't going to be about some abuse, I don't know what a sweetheart would be looking for, and I don't know what, left, right, and such political games. This is where we need to know and take that into account. As far as what a colleague from the SD said about these police powers in the direction of registration plates is concerned, it has been made clear several times that it would have been for only one car, that it is not on average to hunt cars and that. Otherwise, I think either the Minister or the Secretary of State will explain it, and then the donkeys will come forward again for all these other issues that are supposed to be at stake.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u141	Anybody else want to discuss Article 6? I note that the Minister would like to answer your questions. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. A few additional explanations below, what has already been said in the introduction. The purpose of this amendment is to distinguish the way in which the identity can be manufactured from its actual use. So what was previously captured, if I generalize a little bit, in one step, is now broken into two steps. The purpose or purpose that we are pursuing is, for the first time, to be the worst crimes here, which also pose a great risk to the perpetrator of a disguised investigation measure so that the story can end fatally for him, so his identity must be completed, so that he must be designed in advance so that there is no doubt on the part of those within the criminal association to which these persons are infiltrated. We are actually addressing a very practical problem situation on the basis of what practice has brought about in the implementation of this Article in reality. We refer to the situation as to how to ensure that, if a decision is to be taken to apply this measure, it is not possible to produce these modified identities within one day ad hoc, but that this identity should be drawn up on the basis of this procedure, which is now provided for in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, with all the relevant and very strong safeguards in advance. It must be said that this regime is without prejudice to the right to privacy of individuals, because it has absolutely no causal link, in this sense, with disguised investigative measures in a way that would already interfere with a specific social environment, so that this would then be aimed at investigating crimes. This is also clearly stated in the explanation. As we say, we are referring to a very complex process of making an identity, and we are referring to the situation that the identity of the operational and technical cannot be organised just as at the time of ad hoc, in a way that it would then be possible to immediately carry out a police task and could also use this identity or modified ownership of the funds. Of course, in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service, we have also dealt with this issue in order to allow arrangements to be made for the implementation of the identity adjustment to take place before undercover investigation measures are determined. However, in very intensive cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service, we have then also come up with the creation of an amendment based on the assumption that such an arrangement is necessary, because otherwise disguised investigative measures would be virtually impossible to implement, and in fact this is not only about the production of documents, but about the production of an integrated image of a person who will infiltrate the criminal association.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u143	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, dr. Franz Trcek, let's give the minister a word to finish her thought. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u144	That's all. [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u145	Good. Madam Minister, the minute is over or the time is up. You can sign up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u146	Only to supplement that in the second part, as regards the actual application of identity adjustment, remains the same system as so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u147	Here you go, Dr. Runcho. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. I hope you don't consider this an abuse of procedure. Look, we unfortunately have such a written rule that it can be interpreted in such a way that we can talk about anything anywhere. However, I would ask that in such important legislation, and this is my procedural proposal, the executive branch listens to us a little more precisely. The Minister has again explained to us how an identity event is being carried out, but we're just saying, we're all just saying that it's a reduction of criteria, the removal of a security guard, to move it from the Attorney General's Office to the Director General's Office, if I understand correctly. That's the heart of the problem, not the technical stuff. I hope that you will protect someone you send to the field as much as you can, which is somehow self-sustaining. I don't want to be abusing the procedure right now. Let us, please, talk about matters which are at stake and which Members and Members are addressed as a legislative body, and we must address them because this is a description of our works and tasks. But not to explain something beyond that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u149	I don't understand your procedural abuse, but you and all the other ministers and coworkers can also encourage you to answer your questions through the debate. Like the one coordinating this debate, I can't force anyone into anything. Anybody else want to discuss Article 6? I'm guessing yes. Mr. Zajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about this change and before we conclude that it is a reduction of standards, it is possible to say that we are talking about lowering standards when change would lead to abuses. In this change, however, we are talking about the fact that we want to increase the operationality of the police. So we're not just talking about making a new ID card, we're also talking about secret associates having to acquire certain skills, which takes time. And now, if we were to talk about lowering some standards in this case, it would mean that this window could be enlarged, which could have resulted in a variety of abuses. But since we don't want to do that, all we want to do is increase the operations of the police, there are guards entered into the law. However, these fuses are that at least once a year the manufacture of these identities is checked and that they can be destroyed if they are not in accordance with the law. That way, I couldn't agree it was about lowering standards. It is about increasing operationality, while the standards of protection for non-abuse are being maintained, only the way is changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u151	Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I did not intend to advertise in this law, but this debate is very interesting and I also expect the Minister to explain this difference between the decision in one or the other case, saying whether the Prosecutor decides or the Director-General decides. I have a serious question about this reduction in the standard, because in the case of a house investigation where it might be extremely urgent for something to happen immediately, the police have to wait for the prosecutor's decision to carry out a house investigation. However, it may be more vital that something happens. In the case of identity or this change, if I understand correctly, this does not happen overnight and it always takes some time to prepare someone in the right way to infiltrate a story. And now, in case we need, say, in half an hour, we can wait and get the prosecutor's position on a case, but in case we can prepare someone for months, there's no need for a decision by the prosecutor. Although I'm a layman myself in this area, I'm not an expert, but this thing doesn't work for me. So I would really ask, given that the question of this competence has been raised and who decides in this case to answer it. I listened very carefully, but there was no answer. As Comrade Trček and some others said in their debate, you were only talking about the technique of how the matter is being prepared, and we are interested in who signs this document as decision makers. And as I said about this comparison between the house investigation and the authority to infiltrate someone, I think it's difficult to compare them. And in one case, you're waiting for the D.A. to give you the authority to go into some house investigation, and you can clean up at this point, and maybe the police need a faster decision, and in case of infiltration, it's not about having to do something in five minutes. And I'd like your comment on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u153	I give my word to Mr. Simon Rabbit. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u154	However, it must be said that we cannot compare the house investigation with the identity. When someone wants to come into my apartment, why do I need a prosecutor? Because it is a constitutionally guaranteed right to privacy in an apartment. But when we talk about creating or making an identity, in this case, we are not prejudiced by any right. That is why we do not really need the prosecutor here in the sense that we need him in our house investigation. Because there's one thing about trespassing in private space, and the other thing is nothing happens yet, just get ready. So, get ready to get the skills he's gonna need to infiltrate some criminal group, get his papers ready. But it's there, no one's using it yet, no one's being denied any rights. But when that happens, you still need a decision to use it. However, after one year, any such identity must be destroyed if it is not extended. But that's when the D.A. is informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u155	Replica, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u156	Buddy Rabbit, I didn't say it was the same. I'm just wondering about both of these stories. But now you've said otherwise, it is said that the identity is prepared and waiting for a decision. Your bill doesn't say that. If we accept what you are now prepared to do, the decision will only be taken on the basis of the proposal of the Director-General of Police. And the D.A.'s only later on to see if one year from now, everything was okay and okay. And I don't know now if the Minister has lawyers, but I would still ask that she interpret this dilemma, because I don't think I'm the only one who's asking why in this case he doesn't want to involve the prosecutor at the very beginning, but he's only here. You have now said that this is being prepared and decided later to apply, it is said that there is no problem to obtain the signature of the prosecutor as well as in any other case. And it's actually about lowering the standard if we don't do it in the initial phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u157	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much. As explained at the outset today, I may now make it a little more apparent, or on the basis of an example, that it will be a little bit more understandable what we are following with the proposal to amend this Article. I said that the idea of amending this Article was due to existing problems in practice, i.e. because of the operational and technical impossibility of this provision. In fact, the position of the Supreme State Prosecutor at the time of or at the time of the adoption of this provision was that the Prosecutor may only be involved in a specific forecasting procedure, which is a problem in view of the complexity of the process of making identity-making, because it is clear that a certain person who is intended to infiltrate a criminal association cannot, by night, either prepare or implement those modified images, through which he will then be able to act in this criminal association. Therefore, this provision was not applicable, it was not applicable in practice. In fact, we are not lowering the standard, but we are regulating something that has not worked so far. We want to achieve with all the appropriate guardians that I think they are in this article and that they are effective, that an effective response is possible to the moment when the Prosecutor decides that he will be able to respond effectively to his powers and also to the position of the Supreme Public Prosecutor, which I have just stated. So that the former Director General of the Police will choose the right person to start this process in order to create this modified identity, to make a concrete person, I don't know, actually manifest himself as a chef, as a car carrier, to drive a truck, to have these schools run as a chef, in short, these are things that work at first sight banal, but from the point of view of carrying out these difficult police tasks, they are very complex processes, because they are actually a matter of redefining the identity of this person. Therefore, it is necessary to separate, one is the professional question, namely, the preparation of an identity, which is a professional question within the police domain and, on the other hand, it is still unchanged or we are not interfering with that part which is crucial, even outside, when the use of the modified identity that is still being decided by the state prosecutor comes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u159	Dr. Franz Duck, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Look, I'm a little freaked out. What did the district secretary say? I'll explain on the case. Me and my dear cook lunch, and since she can't figure out at which point she'll be involved in preparing lunch, we'll turn off the fuse and turn off the power. Sort of. If there is a problem in communication between the prosecution and the police, there is no reason for a very important guard to withdraw. And that's what you did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u161	Mr. Simon Zajc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u162	Maybe you didn't listen well or read it. So far, it has been possible for the Attorney General to order the creation of an identity based on the law governing the criminal procedure, which means that it was not possible to prepare very in advance, but that some criminal procedure had to be carried out. In the present case, you can prepare this sooner when it comes to cases where you need certain skills that you don't have right now as a police associate. As an ordinary police officer or as a police officer, you don't have certain skills yet, and you need to get them. So far, the Prosecutor has been able to authorize this to be done only on the basis of the Criminal Procedure Act. That's the change.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u163	Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u164	Since we are also guardians of the budget, I will look at this from the budget side. You all talk about how to start it, how much it costs, how expensive it is. If I am looking from the budget side, there must be someone from the outside who has a relatively early view of whether or not this investment is being made. Just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u165	Anyone else want to discuss Article 6 and the amendment? I find that no, so I am concluding the debate on this work. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing yes. Mag. Dušan Verbič first, please, you have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] You wanted to? I missed you, Dr. Gorenak. Mag. Verbich, here you go. You have the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, say good-bye again! I will also allow myself a few words concerning the generality, and then I will touch this amendment with Article 9. In the case of the debaters so far, I must admit that the common denominator is certainly, if I may say so, some criticism, namely the lowering of the standards of these police powers and non-compliance with the information officer. As for the first, if I go to the law itself, I must admit that those of us who have looked a little bit more at the content face the following fact that this law saw the light of the world back in 2015 and was given the opportunity both to the professional public and to all stakeholders to participate. I must admit that I am pleased to have the information that the profession has certainly been actively involved, but I understand the distinguished fellow Member, Dr Gorenak, who also discussed on the parental committee. The reality is that the lawmaker, I am firmly convinced, has considered all comments, concerns also at this professional level in which something is taken into account in the drafting of this law. And here I must admit that even in that it is, in some way, called for or said, lowering standards, but that I cannot fully agree with this part in general. Simply for one reason: we want to have an effective Slovenian police force. And what does effective police mean? Professional, responsive and highly qualified to ensure public order and peace, taking into account applicable legislation and with as little interference in human rights as possible. I don't think there's anyone here who wouldn't have said that in any way. If we want to have an effective police force, then I certainly prefer when we talk about lowering standards, that the decision, if I may say so, which legal, which professional, any other views are those that enable the Slovenian police to be effective. In this matter I also refer to the presentation or debate on the parent board of both unions, both the Police Union of Slovenia and the Police Union of Slovenia. The common denominator of both is that if you want the police to be effective, we need appropriate powers today. But the fact is, the police are a repressive body, and we're not blinding ourselves here. Here I refer to another point or what is certainly worth considering in some way, but what is an intervention in human rights. And here there is no denying the importance of an information officer, who always stresses that data collection is, that intervention is the area where the question is where the real border is. I believe here that the authorities, in this case the police, are well aware of where that sensitive limit of interference in this so-called human rights is in everyday work. And as far as human rights are concerned, I think that we have sometimes neglected to prepare this law, that I have not noticed at all – not even any debate on the parental committee so far – that the drafter of this law has also been actively involved in this area, is to say the comments made by the information officer. I believe they've also coordinated. And I believe that they also had before them the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. However, sometimes we do not wish to say out loud that the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights has an exception in Chapter 8, and this exception states when public authorities may interfere with the individual’s exercise of the right to privacy. And let's say it's very clear that when it's stipulated by law, and what's crucial when it comes to national security, the safety of public security is, if I say so, to prevent disorder or crime in cases where it's protected by health, and what's often said, I will say, whether it's will or will not, when it's protecting the freedoms and rights of other people. I believe that, despite all of this important law or amendment of the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, it is clear and clear that the fundamental duty of the police is to ensure individual, it is said, individual security and community, that human rights are literally protected in that reasonable or permissible intervention of the repressive body. And what's crucial is strengthening the rule of law. The fact is, the police alone cannot and will never be able to prevent criminal acts and even worse road traffic offences. But you can love them. And because of this, according to the law, it has the so-called power to do so through preventive measures, which in some ways are also conditioned by repressive measures. This is said to be the only public safety authority in this case to ensure that instruments of coercion and control mechanisms are available. The fact is that we are ignoring another important fact – the Republic of Slovenia is in the Schengen area. And even in the control of the state border, something has been mentioned on my part, and I think it is right that we are also here talking about or mentioning what Schengen means. I assume that no one in this National Assembly has any doubts as to whether or not Slovenia should be in the Schengen area. The fact is that Schengen members are subject to the Schengen Borders Act. This amendment of the law gives the police certain powers. My respectable colleague gave introductory remarks on what are the areas which in some direction extend for the powers of the police. Here, however, I would like to point out what is also the subject of this novel, and in some ways, I almost hope to say that things like this are being abused at times. Of course, in the interest of an individual debater. I'm thinking of technical means. It is said that each member of Schengen is committed to this, it is true that this moment is mainly at the borders, but we must not forget that the police have their activities within the country if we are talking about the border at the airports. What I really want to point out is so-called technical means. Video surveillance systems, which are also in the debate, not today, but have been exposed several times recently, namely thermovision cameras in the detection of so-called natural persons, in this regard, let me make it very clear that personal data are not covered here. The fact is that this is being used, and it is also right that the police have a technical tool in detecting persons in vehicles. Also, the technical means by which the heartbeat is detected. What I think most of us have already faced, and we simply do not agree, is that the so-called ABC door is also an integral part of the Schengen. The fact is that it is also important that, even with travel documents that are chipped and have not only fingerprints, but also photos, right through the so-called ABC door by some normal procedure, and not by any interference with an individual or us as a natural person, examine the identity of the person or the fingerprint with the one in the passport chip. Interestingly, there are a lot of words here, including by the coalition partner, say, a colleague who previously discussed technical means related to the identification of vehicles, in the final stage, these are things that are already an integral part of the processes in our country, but we are in the Schengen area. The data covered by these so-called technical devices interfere with a base with which not only the police of the Republic of Slovenia have access, but also bases from the so-called international links. But why is that necessary? It is precisely because so-called rejections are detected by individuals, because in such databases, even if we include international ones, it is primarily about preventing or detecting persons who have committed a crime that is in some of the offences, or when we say very extreme cases that a person who has been banned from entering the country in the past is also present in our country. So, as far as these technical matters are concerned, I must admit that I will continue to be involved. I'm sure there's an amendment. And here's the thing about the law itself. I must admit that I am very pleased that the content of the proposal for a new law before us has also been very strongly supported by the State Council, with regard to its concerns and views, the Legislative and Legal Service has also made it very clear below that the answers and certain amendments have resolved certain professional concerns. Even as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, I have not seen some terribly contradictory matters. Yes, it is with the information officer. But this is the kind of area that any repressive body will always face. I am firm in my position and I trust the police leadership that through the procedures and processes of education, which have also announced that this is a constant, in particular in the context of the high capacity of the police, such interventions will be consistent with what I originally said about what effective police mean. If I conclude with regard to the 9th amendment, it is true that the honourable colleagues of the SDS Group have tabled an amendment. I'll touch the amendment of the coalition. Here, however, I would mention what was initially criticized, namely lowering standards. This is a typical amendment, when, in some way, the lawmaker, in my opinion, found that it would indeed occur to some extent to lower standards, and with this amendment wants to somehow bring the situation back to the same state as before. I believe here that an excellent expert on this subject, honourable Member Dr. Gorenak, may have thought of the content of this text, that it may be poorly written down so that it would be better if it remained as it was. But I am in the position of what I have initially said that I strongly trust the current police leadership and the lawmaker, right in the system of efficiency, and I follow them to conclude that such a dictatorship, which is now in Article 9, is a good enough argument to establish a preliminary state of affairs at the same time that the police will also be effective in this part that is written down. I would end up at this point, and then I'll get involved in the next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u167	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I sometimes imagine some things in plastic, and I can imagine right now, Dr. Ducky will know what kind of exercises he's doing in college. You ask one question and then the students discuss it. Now, if I evaluated you like this, I'd make Dr. Snack and Mr. Muršičev, and the other one, uh, would drive you down if you were in school. But we're not, we're in Parliament, and we're going back to the agenda. Look, in the previous article, because you've all said it right, and no one has said why we're transferring from the Prosecutor to the Director General. Now look at the article we're in. We're going to have another plastic look at this. Collecting police reports means they broke in with Dr. Duck, say, and a policeman comes to his neighbor and says, "Sorry, neighbor, did you see anything about who was walking around the Duck house?" Well, look, according to current standards, the situation is clear. Dr. Duck's neighbor needs to be told that he's collecting notices and that this neighbor from Dr. Duck doesn't have to give information to the police. That's the current standard. In what you brought to the committee, however, it was said that Dr. Duck's neighbor would be informed that he did not have to make statements if a police officer considered it appropriate. The police will always find it inappropriate, and this neighbor from Duck will never be informed again. And now you've turned this into a three-fold worse option. Three times the worst! What does it say now? “Pre-commitment police will instruct the person about the right to volunteer and anonymity.” Okay. “Unless the collection of notices has been initiated by a person.” If you put a dot here, I'll sign it. Now you have added “or in the case of preventive activities”. Yes, dear souls, preventive activity is always, even when a cop bangs on your ass with a pen so you can't attack him anymore. See, he was preemptive. If I do a little caricature. And here you are so horribly dropping the standard that it is said for a goat, according to the household. I don't know, I guess something's going to happen in Desus maybe, but in the SD, they've already seen the light of the world, and now I hope they'll see something else in Desus. You can't lower that standard like that. Look, if you put a dot here at the end, I'm up for it — on the initiative of a person. Because it makes sense. If Trčko's neighbor calls the police, he says, "You know, I saw who broke in with Trček," then it's logical that he doesn't have to be informed by the police. Well, that makes sense. Not that you say “or in the case of preventive activities”. Preventive activity is always. It's a preventive activity when two cops walk down the street or [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, of course it's a preventive activity, and many other times. In short, don't lower your standards so stupidly. Put a dot there and it's okay for my ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u169	Anybody else want some? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I'm kind of honored that as a layman, you might pass Dr. Gorenak's exam. Otherwise, I live in a multi-housing building, not in a house, they've broken into our basement several times, and I'm afraid I have to agree here. You went to do some cosmetic repair that's even worse. Literally. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u171	Mr. Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u172	I've got to get in here now, because I don't think we've all read everything we should. With Mr Gorenak, I think we agree that somehow with this amendment we have come closer to what you wanted. However, there is a need to distinguish between what is preventive and what is classic police work. This is also well mentioned in Article 4. So I think we've found here one of those real proportions, that first, and we've also followed the Legislative and Legal Service. So I think that we should agree here, because it is actually said that it is a preventive activity, but the classical police tasks are clearly clear and defined. In this direction, I think we have come closer to what we wanted to define in this Article 34. By lowering standards, I regret that I cannot agree. That's how we're gonna be here on opposite sides.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u173	Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you very much. In case of preventive activities, you say. Isn't that neighbor of the Duck a preventive activity? Of course it's a preventive activity. I'm not going to break up here, do what you want, but you're going to lead me to suggest to the Group that we vote against it. You're just gonna lead me to this if you're not ready to listen to anything. Make a dot there and it's okay. Throw preventive activities out because they don't belong in. You put it in a steak. I don't know what to tell you, Raspberry. They don't go to the raccoons and steaks together, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u175	Anyone else want to discuss Article 9 and the amendments? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I can see that. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u176	For a little while. I'm not even going to lose words here. It is simply that we have technically corrected this article. The police are looking for one person as wanted persons and one as missing persons. The wanted person was the person who did something, committed a crime, committed a crime, escaped from prison or what I know, and the police are looking for her to take her and process her to court and so on and so on. The missing person is the one when someone disappeared, but we don't know why. An old man got lost on his way to a nursing home, if you want him to find him or anything, in short, he got lost. Just conceptually, our proposal means a contribution to the purity of the article, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u177	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Simon Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u178	Here it should only be noted that this article does not speak only of missing persons, but also of other persons being sought; this is what you have explained. So we cannot turn the title of this article into a missing person, because we are also looking for those persons who, for example, have committed a crime and so on, it is not just one type of search for persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u179	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u180	Sorry, I've been teaching this class for 15 years. I've been teaching these things for 15 years. You're wrong! One is missing, and one is wanted. But now you have the address of the person you're looking for, so those who did something, and you're talking about those who got lost in there. Nothing will be wrong if this is accepted, there will be no disaster, but you've got stupidity in there. And if I wanted to help you, at least we could accept this help, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u181	Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you. I didn't mean to advertise in this article because we're going to support it, but earlier, the chairman of the parent's working body, the Committee on Internal Affairs, the public administration and local self-government, somehow said, "Look, we've been looking at this since 2015." But this case shows very nicely that time is not always the right component if the minister and the SMC are so stubborn that your ears are out of order to get stuck on some kind of amendment that is logical and clear to my eight-year-old daughter and that actually clears up and separates two categories of people. It's very simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u183	Anyone else want a word? I note that no, so I am concluding the debate on Article 14. I am opening the debate on Article 35 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u184	Very briefly. The United Left would be kicking out, as we call it, we are not against it, that is, most European countries have it, there are no problems. But we think that our text is a little bit more, let me put it this way, pure. A little cleaner. And there's something about our text, by the way. It also means that the government's text has been made so that it can be used by police in intervention groups, see, you have it in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and Koper and where, but you don't have it in Tolmin, Mozir and I don't know where. You put that out on the board, I know, Mr. Zajc, I know you put that out, but it seems normal for me to go out. In fact, our article adds, our amendment adds something else, namely the need for police officers to be qualified to do so. I think that's pretty good, I'll say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u185	The other side, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. As Mr and colleague Gorenak has already pointed out, there is an article here which, frankly, is also ideological in nature from different positions of the SDS and the United Left in the heart. A view of how much repression or how much repression there is. The applicant did not provide an argument as to why this would be necessary, except that it was awkward for the Minister at the Schengen border when they came from abroad to help, and they had to postpone the paralysis, which was of course good, because if someone tried to use it there, they would have stampede. A paralyser is not a substitute for firearms, nor is it the filling of a gap, nor would these unfortunate deaths of uniformed police officers be prevented, compared, not exactly, with tear gas. Both funds should not be used in people under the influence of drugs, in people with mental problems. And there is also no reasonable reflection or need to be used in the field. And since I have my word on this article, let me put it this way. There are two key errors in this debate, with the exception of Dr. Gorenak. Adequate powers do not yet mean that you forget about the appropriate security guards. Especially in the field of repressive legislation. When the power comes and how many guards. Another key problem is that the security problem narrows down to the police. As I said before, the problem of security in a society essentially crosses all ministries, the whole sector division. The safety problem is in your heart, you know what it's connected to? It is linked to whether a society is more inclusive or less inclusive, more inclusive, more exclusive, whether goods are shared more fairly or less, or whether the constitution is respected or not, whether it goes in the direction of justice or not. And if we miss out on all this stuff, then the police have a lot of work to do. However, if in a quarter of the century, including this composition, a whole series of other sectoral laws were better taken away from these societies and countries, if they were not as much robbed as you or we were, we would probably be discussing the law here, or if we took the police's badge, and then I would be very happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u187	Mr. Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you. Just as far as the SDS amendment is concerned, I don't think it's necessary. The thing you mentioned to add to it is regulated in Article 74 of this Act, which says that all enforcement measures must be trained by police officers. Not just for a paralyser, for all the others, which means that what you add, the law already contains and therefore this amendment is not necessary. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u189	Marco Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u190	This is where I would tell my buddy Duck that he's really right when he's looking at this whole slide, but here we have to narrow ourselves to operationality. Today, we have taken great steps forward in all techniques and technology, and this is where the police are doing the same. Firearms and a paralyser, we can do some parallels, what's good, what's not good, but if we want to be at least a little more humane, I think it's more humane. But when the story starts to get one balloon, it's both pregnant women and those with the heart valve or the pacemaker, or I don't know what, but we go into such extremes that we don't see the cause. Because you could have had a heart valve or someone committed a crime that, I'm going to say, was pretty much like that to be able to use this case. Now what the police will use. Normally, he'll always be used sooner or later, I'll say, more human resources, and then it'll go up. When we are here discussing whether this is right or wrong, we need to look at it from the unions. And your client is this, the union, it says, represents the labour rights of all of these, and the unions themselves have said that they are for this and that this seems to them to be the right direction. I agree with you that none of these deaths would have prevented a paralyser, even in the union, that's what we all know. But for the advance steps, to look into some future, I think it's a good idea that they also have paralyzers available in our police. Whether you agree here or not, we come from different perspectives now and this pingpong debate will somehow go in its direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u191	The Minister of the Interior has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. With regard to this new enforcement asset, i.e. an electric paralyser, I'm going to be a little longer because I think it's a sensitive topic that deserves an in-depth attention. What's the point of suggesting this? It is essential or essential to enable police officers to take safe action, i.e. distance action in the event of a person actively resisting or attacking dangerous objects — axe, knife, villas, motor saw. In addition to preventing self-harm, which is also an essential element of this amendment, we want to ensure the safety of police officers in all these cases or, more broadly, a constitutionally permissible objective is being pursued, thus allowing a police officer to carry out a police procedure with as little consequences as possible, i.e. consequences for the policeman as well as for the person who is in the process. If we look at what a paralyser means, what a gun means. The purpose of the paralyser, if I may express myself professionally, is to neutralize the person. We know what the aim of firearms is and what the consequences may be for someone in the event of the use of firearms. Perhaps a case that is not made up, given that the police also deal with such cases daily or often. For example, the police have taken a man who before with a knife robbed a shopkeeper and at the time of his arrest, this person shows the intention of using this knife to resist the arrest. A situation may arise quickly in practice when the gas dispenser does not work. It is sufficient that a person has glasses or that the use of a gas dispenser in relation to a given situation is not even possible and then it will have to be asked what the successful arrest of that person depends on. Of course, it is important that a police officer is equipped to be professionally qualified, given that there is a partial gap between a stick and a firearm, but it is realistic to say that in such cases, in these serious cases, when it comes to such behaviour by potential perpetrators or suspects, much depends on the happiness of a police officer. And our intention is to introduce this new coercive instrument — in view of the objective we are pursuing — and in view of the legal void that actually exists at this point, we want to avoid situations where a trained and equipped policeman may run out of this happiness. I think we need to provide the police with all the funds that are necessary to carry out the task that the law must carry out safely. Of course, the police have a stick, but we know that the knife and all the other assets I listed are far more dangerous than the stick, as they can also cause significantly worse injuries. In particular, this new coercive measure would be taken into account in closed rooms or in cases of domestic violence where the use of another means in relation to the intensity of the attack of the perpetrator is not appropriate when police officers may not be able to act otherwise in the closed room, as this could also endanger other persons. And the fact is, there is no comparable coercive measure on the market at this time. As has already been heard today, Slovenia is one of only three countries in Europe that do not yet have this funding. Of course, we have been prepared to listen to better solutions for safer police action in these cases during the drafting of this provision, but we have not received any concrete proposal. It is necessary to know that the use of a paralyser is intended only for the cases I have mentioned and therefore the conditions for use are also very tight, that the fuses are actually worse than in firearms, and as close as possible to the conditions for the use of firearms to the so-called privileged persons mentioned in the law. Here the conditions are even levelled and, as such, the conditions for the use of a paralyser are linked to cases where the life of a police officer or someone else is directly endangered, which was also one of the Ombudsman's comments and we have followed that. We have also taken into account all comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. The Article provides for appropriate monitoring, recording and recording, which is the case in rare countries where police officers use a paralyser, as well as ex post verification of use and appropriate medical assistance. We also note that Amnesty International assessed that the proposal takes into account the recommendations made by the Council of Europe or the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture on the use of paralysis in its 2010 report. The Ministry of Health also agreed with this proposal and I do not think it is possible to stress too many times that we need to give the police effective tools to deal with the most challenging tasks in which they are at risk themselves. Because a police officer on behalf of the State guarantees order and security and does not actually have a choice as to whether or not he will participate violently in society. We also know that in our current reality, Slovenian police are not overly repressive. I don't think anyone can tell her that and that they don't just go after guns and sometimes decide when they might say it could be too late. We all know what a man's shot means, even though it's a person who's violent. Practices abroad also show that in most cases, up to 70% of the cases, violators stop actively resisting when a policeman launches this candor on a paralyser. This also ensures that as little force as possible and with as few consequences as possible enable a policeman to establish public order and peace. And that's what I think we all want. According to all the said paralyser, given that it is a departure from firearms, it is a reduction of repression. We have also explained in the past that the paralysis does not work on man’s will to resist, but only on his ability to resist. The effects are predictable and have also been shown to be less likely to harm because there is no direct contact between a police officer and a person. With regard to the amendment to Article 35, as has already been said, the part concerning police officers to be assigned to them shall be deleted. This is in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that there is a non-systemic regime in relation to the other provisions of the law governing the use of coercive means, which is regulated in such a way as to determine the conditions for use and the manner in which they are used, and in any case we do not know which police officers may also use worse coercive means. Of course, but it's important that they're qualified. We're aware of that. It is also clearly stated in the amendment, what is considered to be the use of an electric paralyser, and also clearly defined monitoring of the legality and expertise not only of the use, but also of the preparations, i.e. the activation or injection of the device when the policeman prepares it for use, which means that we went even further in the direction of tightening the conditions for the use of the electric paralyser. As far as the SDS amendment is concerned, it must be said that the technical development of electrical paralysers has not yet reached such a development point in order to compensate for firearms. However, as has already been said, the conditions are very strict, are as close as possible to the conditions for the use of firearms or even uniform in privileged groups and are linked to the situation where the life of a police officer or anyone else is directly at risk. As regards the second part of the SDS amendment, it should be said that when a policeman is able to use a variety of coercive means, it is necessary to decide in accordance with the principle of proportionality on the basis of which the least harmful consequences arise. This applies to all coercive measures and therefore this arrangement, as proposed, would not be systemic. And it is quite understandable that a paralyser can also be used in cases where conditions are met for the use of a more serious means of enforcement, namely firearms. Article 74 of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers in the new paragraph also lays down the explicit obligation for police officers to be trained to use all means of enforcement, which is also relevant in the context of this debate. And, as I said in the introduction, the non-systematicity as to who can use it or which police officer has already been taken into account here.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u193	First of all, Dr. Franz Duck, then Dr. Vinko Gorenak. [[advertising from the hall]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you very much. In my opinion, Mr Trcek will react severely, but fine. I agree, Mr Zajc, Article 74, the new second paragraph regulates this story, I agree. However, I must also say hello to what is also stated in Article 28. It's because you're saving what I've been through with the 28th article. But I don't know how anyone else will like it, Mr Trček has practical experience from Maribor, what it looks like. Under this article, military vehicles will now stand in front of you, you know, we need to know that. But I agree with that. I agree with that, I emphasize. It is perfectly logical that the police will use certain technical means which the state owns in the performance of security duties. And if, like the fourth paragraph says, you have to break into a building because there are armed men or whatever, and the police don't have the right technical resources, they'll probably get them in the military, yeah. Why not? I think that's just fine. Although if I suggested it in 2012, Minister, you know it would be a revolution. You're lucky that they'd be standing out here right now, those, you know, those screaming, you know, right? It would be an impenetrable sea if I suggested it. But I agree that it goes in. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u195	The answer, Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. I really don't know why he'd go crazy. Except in JLA, I was never armed. Even more so, when I was dealing with the Ponton Bridges, we would have scorpions in the event of a war, and we did not actually have that during the so-called Serbian training. One thing. It sounds very nice to hear a legal void, even though the Minister herself knows it's a pumpkin. I've been talking to experienced lawyers, well, let me explain what the Minister thinks with a legal void. You wanted to explain this somehow on the case, and I'll explain it to you on a case that we both know well from the hometown of Maribor, from which we come. It is almost a week before, in some connection with civil society members, I would not at least ask myself – I am doing a little bit, I can honestly admit, but also the department of the department – about the problem of jobs in Maribor. And they're not people, like a Mariborian moral theologian said, incompetent, up and down, not guilty, they're just guilty of calling in too late. Yesterday I spoke to Mr. Krabonja, saying: “I have a crisis, electricity stations, heat stations have come, winter is long, I don’t know what we’re going to do.” And this man feels probably, maybe inappropriate metaphor, worse than that dog, the dog that everybody kicks on the street. And maybe he went to that barn to buy bread because he's hungry, and he's got a knife with him and he's doing a movie and he's a heart patient. And then we paralyze him. If my daughter had listened to this, I would have said, "Dad, but Aunt Vesna said something like that, we won't shoot at you because in other countries of Europe they shoot a little more than we do, and we will paralyze you and then the police will be happy?" If I spoke like that, we could have disabled someone with a little longer aikido stick, and we could finally send the police to learn how to use hair, and we could have disabled them with hair, and we could have gone to the Hungarian neighbours and disabled them with a whip. What kind of close contact, Comrade Ferlug, is that you're a grandfather and you kick him in the balls and you disable him and you're in the police department. And there's less damage than an electric stunner if I tell you very clearly that everything will be clear. And now there's this story that all of Europe has. Most of Europe is also more urbanised, has different criminalities, and has more crime. Then let's get this imported? Most of Europe doesn't have as much food as we do, and we're gonna forget about that self-sustainment and we're gonna eat junk food. I mean, this logic, you know, if everyone's stupid, then I have to be stupid. I don't know. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u197	Mr. Simon Zajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you. I have a little response to Mr Gorenak's performance. It's not what you said. You said that with this article 28 in the case that happened to us in Maribor when the demonstrations were, you could use the equipment of the army. That's not true. Military equipment will only be used if the lives of police officers or other persons are directly endangered and the conditions for the use of firearms are met and life-threatening weapons cannot be deterred, then police may exceptionally use other types of weapons used in the Slovenian Army. In the case that you cited, this would not have been taken into account, since it was possible to control it normally with all other means. As far as the stunner is concerned, there's something you need to know. We can make fun of it here, and we can say that with some aikida stick, it will be possible to successfully control someone who attacks you with a knife. Just the ones, I don't know how many of you here who've ever dealt with any martial arts and more real martial arts, you'll know that aikido will save you 21% if you can handle it. What about the 80%, Mr. Duck? Then it won't be funny anymore. At that time, we must give the police a tool that is safe both for them and for those against whom it is used. With a stick, more damage can be done than with a paralyser, so that I would not generalize the use of a paralyser. The paralyser will be used in cases where other coercive means of the attacker cannot be tamed. But I don't want to use firearms, which I think is important and smart. Of course, we can now wonder why we are introducing a paralysis just now or why now. Well, so many years ago, all we had was a gun, if we had a stun gun at the time, a stun gun would have been brought into this middle space between a stick and a gun. In any event, the use of firearms for a police officer is safer and also for the one against which the paralyser is used. Because a paralyser is an alternative, it's just a gun in case someone's really going with a machete to attack. What are you gonna do then? No more grabs, no more meths, you can just shoot him. In this case, however, we give the possibility to use a means that is milder, which does not cause such severe or even any consequences for the one against which it is used. By already having only this possibility that the attacker knows that there is a possibility that a paralyser will be used, even a large enough dissuasive function, and in many cases abroad, only the threat by using a paralyser is sufficient. Not to mention that a paralyser can be used even when attacked by an animal, etc. In short, it is about applying the milder measure now available. A measure that will be recorded and a measure that is highly controlled. Even if it's just activated and not already activated, we'll know something's happened to it. This is said to be better control of the paralyser than of the firearms, so that the effects of the paralyser are much nicer than the use of firearms, in some cases even nicer than the use of a stick. If you get them in the wrong place with a stick, there can be very serious consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u199	Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Zajc, I accept everything when you're right, as I did before, Article 74, paragraph two. But this time you're wrong. Look, if life is directly at risk, you say it's possible to use that military technique. During the 2010 demonstrations here outside, when hundreds of dice arrived in Parliament, they also flew into the places where workers and Members were. Like the then president of the Gantar National Assembly was very close to getting it in his head. Life was at stake. You can trigger this article immediately. There's no problem. But I'm in, you don't have to drag yourself back now, why are you embarrassed, what did you write? If that's what I support. Just tell the people what you wrote. If life is directly at risk. In 2012, 2013 in all those demonstrations, when you had 200 robbers out here, those paid, you know, I'm not talking about other people – I'm not talking about other people who were also throwing cubes at those torches that were, I don't know, doing everything else – people's lives were at risk. That's why the police asked them to move away from them. Don't tell me it wasn't compromised. Of course, life was threatened. And so the use of this particular military technique is possible, and here, I say again. Since we also studied in 2012, 2013 how and how we would use these technical means of the military, we could not. We've gone so far as to think about covering those signs and giving the police license plates to drive these police drivers and so on and so forth. We had our options. And if you've solved this problem now, it's okay for me, it's nice that you've solved it, just not now to defend things that aren't right. Not to defend it now, yes, we wrote it, but we won't use it. Tell me, we'll use whatever government has to do this if it's to protect people's lives. You have to do it, some government has to do it tomorrow, and so on and so forth. But say that, well, why are you embarrassed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u201	Come on, Dr. Franz Duck, behind him, Mr. Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u202	Mr Simon Zajc finally came up with a very nice word. So I'm going to say, whatever government has to do, do it to eliminate the causes of such threats that you would respond to with threats. And all the governments in which Desus participated, or all governments in Slovenia in this millennium, did not do enough. And we also have to ask ourselves why there are such threats and why people end up making movies. That's too little to ask here. If we're serious about this, I said a little longer stick, which could cover 33%, a camera they've been using for quite some time in various suburbs, in which the police sometimes didn't even hope to go to certain European capitals and larger cities, which is my area, which is up to 50 percent, and Parliaments have to do their part for the second half. And of course, here we come to one, if you want, politics or ideology, mostly in this national council: we will respond to the threat with a threat. And some minorities who think about why these threats happen and how to address the reasons for the threat. And I think there's a crucial difference here. Now we can make seven doctors about these paralysers, but we're not coming here together. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u203	Simon Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u204	Yeah, I can basically agree here that if we had such a society, that we don't have to worry about security, that everyone would like to have enough, then of course we wouldn't need paralyzers. But we don't have that right now, so maybe this debate won't be fruitful if we go this way. Mr. Gorenak, I still have to say it's good for the whole article to be read. If we just say, "if life is directly threatened," and then we say, a cube has come to Parliament, so we could send an army to me, but you can't read ahead, "and the conditions for the use of firearms are met, and the life-threatening life with the typified weapons that the police have, and with the other resources, cannot be deterred," then only. We can't say now, because a few granite cubes have come to parliament, that the police have no equipment to prevent it, but you would have already gone to the army to get their weapons and go over the crowd. That's not how it works, and this article doesn't say that either. This is true of cases such as a worse terrorist attack, or of some organised criminal society facing the police, and they are much better armed than police officers with weapons that penetrate bulletproof vests, and so on. For those cases, such an article is written, and I think it is very well written, that it cannot be abused, even if you read it only until “if the life of police officers is directly threatened” and the point is that there is no rest. But I'm glad you're not agreeing to this at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u205	Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u206	Mr. Zajc, if a granite cube is flying towards the President of the National Assembly, we both know it can kill him. A police officer can use a gun. Pika, amen. If he knows, of course, if he sees it being thrown by person A. So, what is not yet fulfilled for use? It's done. And it's the right thing to do. Now why don't you want to defend your article, and now I'm gonna defend it? You're funny, aren't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u207	Anyone else want to discuss Article 35 and the amendments? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. Since the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors is the United Left to the 41st Article in substance related to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 46, 47, 49 and 50, and since the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the 42nd Article is also substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 46, 47, 49 and 50, we will discuss them together. In this way, I shall put to the debate Articles 41, 42, 46, 47, 49 and 50 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors the United Left to this Article and the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 42. Who wants to discuss it? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. I will add to this, the Presidents, the drones of the drones, or also the 43rd Article, or as one of them names them. Let's not just base the deletion of these articles on the fact that the Information Commissioner and the former Secretary-General of the General Assembly have said what she said. I'm basically justifying that if you want, with my professional deontology. We somehow forget that we are – there is no Member in seat number 90, who likes to say, we will be a digital society or we will be – a long-formed society. Nesbitt died last year and talked about it in the mid '80s. And this is a major violation of Article 35 of the Constitution and of our privacy in particular. But you know, it can now happen that Mr Vinko or Mrs Vesna, or the Minister or the Minister will somehow link me through a set of whatever it takes to get past the Attorney-General and they will come to our home and look at everything alive on the family computer, not just what I'm looking for. Such a very illustrative example. And since these matters are not yet sufficiently sensitized in the Slovenian public, even though we have some good experts trained in the United States, trained in the UK and where, around this so-called privacy issue, privacy issues are very well understood, which I signed with them a few petitions a decade ago, something has not moved much further. It seems to me that he was extremely irresponsible and reckless in this kind of intervention and, in fact, unconstitutional as it was formulated. What exactly? In order for them to be at home, the Minister would say an elite club – so she marked the Schengen, you can go look at the magnetogram – almost as Mr Klemenčič said as for kindergarten clothes. They'll be watching, I don't know what my nickname is, who's something about me, who's been flying, who hasn't been flying, up and down. But you know, my friend from Bosnia, because he's got the wrong last name and name for someone, he's already got enough problems at some point in his life as a top pathologist traveling around the world. And now they're going to examine him again because of me, because I'm traveling, and he's my friend. I read at the board meeting all that sausage that was supposed to be here. Partly similar to the issue is with registration plates and also with an insufficiently clarified story about the use of drones, so we are simply proposing in the amendments the deletion of these articles and what I have already said is the appropriate powers yes, but of course with suitable fuses and within the constitutional parliamentary democracy that respects the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u209	Anyone else want to discuss the proposed article? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We didn't put the amendments to this article, but I'll say it anyway. Look, you were a roller, and that's not good. Why isn't it good? For a basic reason, as an information officer, you know she walked around the eyelashes on the board. At least if we had listened to her for a little while, at least a little while, she would have softened her views. But they're gone. And it is difficult then to support something that, um, Slovenia also has one doctor of science in the field of the use of police powers. [[…]] Just one. It's Dr. Miroslav Zaberl. He was in charge of the police at my place. Look, he's against the law. He's against the law. The only doctor of science in Slovenia. He also wrote it publicly, and that's what he said publicly. And I'm trying on matter because it's a matter that somehow judges under what I should say is an important part of my life, and I've left it there for 30 years, and I'm trying to say how to help, yes. I'm trying to help. You've also accepted three amendments on the committee, and that's what you have to say, it's okay to have them. But not in certain matters, such as information when collecting notices, but to hold back just because you think, I don't know what. Really, I'm not helping you with such matters. [[…]] And as for the information officer, she said important things, but you wouldn't listen. Since I still have a little time, I'll say it. I have no such beautiful relations with the information officer, but I did not have them, even when she was up there sitting there, I objected when the previous government coalition sent her where she is today, but I must say something. I can't watch a man now, what he was called, that, that, that, that, that, I have to listen to those professional associates. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tomšič, I think that with the information assistant her deputy is still now, and he was also before, a person who prevented a terrible human rights intervention in 2011. It was, however, a matter of reforming the CAP when the gentlemen of the police wanted to, say, get all the traffic on one transmitter. This probably means here in Ljubljana on Maximarket, where there are also 300 thousand people a day. And the information officer spent so much time telling, telling, telling, saying that we had overlooked the Members. But we listened to him, at least the previous coalition listened to him. But this time I think there's no way to say it, there's no will, but you go L'État, ç'est moi! State, that's me, you know who said that. Well, it's not just you, but... And don't go so rough. I understand the United Left that she has left “the line, is deleted, is deleted” because I would not be able to correct that article either. If I were to write amendments to this article, I can't write them. They must be written by people who understand that. I understand the United Left that she's gone with "I'm drawing everything" because otherwise she's not going. And now there's an alternative to whether or not this is going to go away. You'll probably be a roller again and you'll probably be L'État again, c'est moi. But how much longer? 15 months. Then there'll be a funeral. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u211	Mr. Marko Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u212	At least in a few words, I have to replicate all of this together. Mr. Gorenak, of course, I respect because he has his pedigree in the police department. Nevertheless, it is necessary to tell the United Left visa at least with regard to these two points mentioned. As far as the SIS II information system is concerned, it was already in place and functioning of the second generation Schengen Information System in 2007 and entered into force in 2013. It is said that the provisions on covert and dedicated control have been in place for some time. As far as internal control is concerned, we know that there is also a significant threat of terrorism here, and it has also been said in the remarks by the Ministry of the Interior that it works with caution, that it does this special group, which has a precise definition of which samples are sought, and is looking for patterns of people who are somehow linked to organised crime, terrorism and all of the topics, and that everything is so simple but not. As far as drones are concerned, these unfortunate drones can be bought anywhere, each individual can have and manage it to the left and to the right, when it comes to whether the police can have it and how it must be determined that the police can use it, and immediately the entire casino becomes. I don't understand. Here again I ask myself whether we have such mistrust, fundamental mistrust in this police operation or not. [[…]] I don't understand. Police record any use of such devices. It is actually being trained for these uses and has a specific operating protocol. In particular, drones will be used to detect certain crimes or to find missing persons. So we have a definition of when and how they will be used. Just because someone has time off doesn't know what to do with the police, starts driving a drone, it won't work. As far as registration plates are concerned, it has also been clearly defined that this is placed on one car that analyzes the things in front of them. All together, all current, all who walk left and right of him, not, but the police will assess what cops also have the real possibility, the discretion that they can decide for themselves, who and what will happen. And instead of using a relationship like this, he's actually going to see if this car has passed or if it's stolen or if I don't know what. We must be aware that today this fluctuation – the very fluctuation of traffic is enormous, let me just say, progress, all the advanced systems that are. If we don't allow it to the police and if we don't trust them that much, then nothing. Then we can race with the helipads again, and we'll all be happy. Unfortunately, I'm saying, the situation is not like that as a safe situation. I want our Slovenia to remain as safe as it is. If one of you think this is too much, I don't know, I still believe in the professional work of the police and in the expertise of everyone in the ministry, that they have arguments for it, and at the end of the day, the results of the police work themselves show this, even after public opinion polls, that they should be trusted. But if you don't see this within all of us or certain political options, and you don't think they can be trusted, that's the way it is. But I think, at least in the SMC, we think and believe that they need to be supported in this direction, of course, by the fact that control within the police is also carried out, as I said before, and also by civil society, which has its mechanisms to influence this and that it also affects us, if we have mistakenly given, I will say, powers that are not appropriate. But I think we need to trust the organs in the first phase. And among all the authorities, the police have a very high level of trust among all our citizens. And apparently, I think he's doing his job very well, so if we don't give them this new technique that helps them operate, then that means we're blocking them. I agree with Mr Trčko, clearly, that we should not only look partial, but now we are talking about, yes, that the vision of 2050 would be, that we would all be happy and happy and that only the sun would shine and the grass would grow, God forbid it would be so, but we all know what real life is like. Therefore, it is necessary to prepare, to have measures, to have technical means available, to have trained police and to work on them. And clearly, when the police inside themselves break all of this and break this trust, it is necessary to take decisive action and punish these deviations that appear. And no law will be able to cover this up, and with no article of the law will we be able to avoid it. But 99% of the police work, I'll say, according to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u213	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. My procedural proposal will be to have a colleague who, otherwise, I appreciate him very much, but here we are very different, sorry. Because somehow it was said that the United Left was this and me personally a man who somehow didn't trust the police. Like I'm pointing my finger at her, look, ugly, bad guys, up and down, which is far from it. If I touch on this unfortunate strategy, which is not a strategy, it would probably be better for the 450 000 euros to be put in some equipment, and Dr. Gorenak will tell or Dobovšek, who is not, in what equipment, because you are somehow visible experts for it. With these two gentlemen, whether it may sound omnipotent or not, I am probably the third person who is most aware of this reference to the National Assembly, perhaps even better than either of them, because my expertise was that the Slovenian police were very limping about the fact that we were living in a digitised society. And at the level of the personnel they're working on, and at the level of the equipment. I can talk about digital forensics, I can talk about a whole series of things. Marko was talking about how you're gonna follow the car, and then you're just gonna figure out this plate, which is not entirely true. What are we pointing to? We point out that these matters need to be examined and dealt with more seriously. Because all other people's experiences show that just some data collection and grinding, and with half-false artificial intelligence, does more damage than good. You know, by reviewing all of us at airports, we will not solve the problem of terrorism, and we will not solve terrorism through these measures. That's why, please, I don't know, I may be talking too much of a teacher's nonsense, but we haven't claimed anywhere that these areas aren't being solved. After all, we had a debate where this same information officer was in the first third of the term when we discussed the problem of drones that should be addressed. For example, the neighboring Austria went into this and adopted a relatively good law by which others follow their example. And that's something I'm warning you about. But that's not how you get rid of it. I might even be able to correct an amendment that relates to this, because I can honestly say, there is a whole bunch of people younger than me 10, 15 years old who were my students when I was an assistant and a young associate, and it is a shame that at least half a dozen of them are not employed in the Slovenian police because I would need them. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u215	Dr. Trček, if I only exude the part that is supposed to be procedural, I think, and I am sure that Mr Ferruga has done his position very correctly, and I do not see any reason for Mr Ferluga to apologize. Mag. Dusan Verbich and Dr. Matić behind you. Here you go. I'm sorry, there's a minister in front of Dr. Matic. Here you go, mag. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u216	Thank you very much again for your word. I must admit that I have decided to take part in the debate on drones, after which there has been talk about the use of technical means and so on. Here again I point out what I started in my debate and also insist – do we want to have an effective police force in the Republic of Slovenia? Because I think if the police aren't effective, then the question is why do you need the police? I'm not talking about repressive measures. I'm talking about effective police. And when talking about drones, you know, it's kind of funny for me to talk to you on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, that drones are used to detect skulls in forests, but here we are talking about public order and peace, or this kind of technical tool can be used by the police or not. That I will not talk about using the drone for all possible commercial purposes, as well as indeed interference in intimacy or human rights. So I'm sure there are borderline issues here that are linked to the information officer and her thinking. But in the general application of all possible matters, I think there should be no problem that the police can also use such matters for certain purposes. As far as technical means of optical recognition of registration plates in road traffic control are concerned, we should simply not blind ourselves to the fact that by building a highway system in the Republic of Slovenia the basic task of police control of traffic is significantly different from that of the classic road cross. And certainly the police of this kind must follow these so-called technical devices, especially in the direction of vehicle selection. What does it mean that the police on the highway cross would exercise control and simply redirect traffic across the so-called resting place, because otherwise it is not possible? And just to find out, if that's what I can call stolen vehicles, forged plates and everything that's deviated from normal road safety issues, I think it's time for the Slovenian police to also get a technical opportunity for this so-called pre-election. Of course, this makes the normal flow as minor as possible. And here I see no problem in such matters in the use of these so-called technical means, in order to normally ensure security on the one hand. Because in the final stage, I do not know whether we are all blinded to the fact that in the Republic of Slovenia, on the road network, or on the local or motorway, there is no certain number of stolen vehicles, that I will not talk about counterfeit driving licenses, including license plates. Not to say if they're registered vehicles or anything. And given that virtually one of the basic tasks of the police is certainly traffic control, it is perfectly understandable that it is also possible to do so in a certain direction. I agree here that in some direction the profession also varies a little bit, but I come from that fundamental preposition again, the Slovenian police must have the tool so that it can be effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u217	The Minister of the Interior has the floor, Mag. Vesna Györkös Žnidar
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u218	Thank you for your word, President. In this first part, I will first limit myself to the collection of passenger data, which I consider to be an extremely important part of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Tasks and Powers of the Police, even because of the fact that this is part of the common EU approach to preventing terrorism and other serious crimes. Of course, this is not the only measure, but it is one of the measures in this mosaic that must be put in place by countries in order to deal with such a complex and dynamic threat as terrorism and all other crimes. We have already explained in very detail the reasons why this amendment is proposed, accompanied by an impact assessment on privacy, where all risks are also identified and also replaced by appropriate protective mechanisms. As far as cooperation with the information officer is concerned, I can say here that very intensive coordination has taken place with the information officer, both in writing and orally, but it must be stressed that each coordination process must be bilateral. And if there are certain a priori conflicting views, this is one of the elements that somehow put this whole process on more difficult foundations or prevent consensus where it would be possible for some reason. However, it is true that we have been very cooperative, and the Information Officer is also an associate member of the PNR Group, so we have reached even better solutions in one part through the intensive dynamics of our relationship with the Information Officer. In short, as regards the collection of passenger data, this is actually the data that air carriers obtain in two separate databases, the basis for processing is the Aviation Act. On the one hand, the API data, i.e. information on passengers registered for flight, on the other hand, are the PNR data, i.e. the data to be provided at the time of the booking of the flight ticket. And this data will be obtained from air carriers, and it is interesting that no one is even asking how it is now controlled by those data which have been processed by air carriers for regular and special flights on both external and internal years, while the proposed amendments to the Law on the Tasks and Powers of Police define the purpose of processing these data. For API data, there is a need for greater identification of individuals and the tracing of wanted persons and other persons of operational interest, while for PNR data there is a need for a strategic operational risk assessment based on the need to prevent, detect and also to investigate and prosecute terrorist and other catalogically listed serious crimes. I do not agree that this is a disproportionate intervention into the right to freedom of movement of all air passengers, that is not true. The concept is in fact different, the concept is in fact based on a targeted police response to passengers who will be determined in advance, which will be non-discriminatory, also transparent, i.e. criteria in the form of evaluation criteria, tyrants, data to be used for perpetrators of crime or for operational information on criminal offences, i.e. persons who, on the basis of these criteria, will pose a high security risk. Finally, I also want the security authorities to know at least roughly who is sitting next to me on the plane, so that the police will at least check in a certain segment the persons for whom, on the basis of these objective criteria, which are transparent, which are not discriminatory, at least try to determine at least what the person is doing. It is essentially the proactive work of the police, which is then somehow pre-prepared for selectively detailed treatment only by those persons who are recognized as high risks to public safety and international security, while other passengers are, in fact, facilitated by these travel solutions and also provided with a higher level of security when entering or leaving the European Union, which is finally advocated by the European Commission. However, it is true that the police must obtain data on all air passengers so that only those who are at high security risk can be identified among them, which still does not mean that the analyst, that is, the person who will work in this special police unit, who will be responsible for collecting and processing and storing these data, will have access to all the data received from air carriers. I don't think anyone's interested in all the data either, time or personnel, it's not even possible to pull it off. It will only see those hits that will evaporate according to pre-determined criteria in the criminal investigation through police records and through pre-determined targeted evaluation criteria that will be developed on the basis of already detected perpetrators of crimes. As it is said, it is essentially a transposition of the EU Air Passenger Records Directive, the Commission has already made clear that this will improve the safety and protection of European citizens, of course with full respect for the criteria for privacy and the protection of personal data, and the European Parliament has finally agreed to compromise with the Member States, in particular as a result of the latest terrorist attacks that have taken place in the territory of the European Union. Therefore, we cannot agree with this insistence on merely the reactive part of the police, a work based on the exercise of powers only after the implementation of these most serious crimes begins. This is not in line with the relevant European and national security development documents, as discussed by the European Council in the Stockholm Programme, the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime, adopted by the Republic of Slovenia, and last but not least the Resolution on the long-term development programme of the police by 2025 – Quality Police for Safe Slovenia. In fact, the common denominator of all these documents and all these concerns is that we agree that terrorism and other serious forms of crime seriously endanger internal security in the European Union, that the processing of passenger data for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and also prosecuting these most serious crimes is an effective pro-active tool, which must also be based on appropriate data exchange. This national unit will also be integrated into the international network of other units, through which the data will then be exchanged if necessary. The next premise, which is important in this context, is that collective responsibility in ensuring security and also effectively limiting terrorism at the national level requires modified tactics, working methods and the sharing of modern information technologies. Crime is developing, and the police must follow it properly, and therefore police powers are not static at all, but they should also be updated when all necessary security guards are introduced. Therefore, this introduction is the power to process and use passenger data essentially to operationalise these police objectives in order to be effective, to remain effective and not least to continue to be recognised as a credible international partner. In short, if I simplify, all the data already available to air carriers will be verified through these assessment criteria, based on the specific travel patterns of the already known perpetrators, and will be identified after being identified as higher risk persons, and only those travelling in such specific ways will be identified. The parameters for the production of these criteria are already detailed in the private impact assessment. These are very precise, very complex criteria that are actually directed at rare individuals, and this will also prevent unnecessary interference with the information privacy of people that we can consider to be honest. As regards internal flights, it must be said here that this option is given by the Directive. The official position of the Republic of Slovenia is also to support this. This is also supported by the European Commission, which has also called on Member States to join the implementation of this part of the Directive, some countries have already followed. We have also justified the need to incorporate internal flights in order to assess the effects on privacy. Indeed, it is necessary to know that the perpetrators also change direction or place of travel, so often they change because they are adapting in this way to the measures of the security authorities. Some cases are also very well written in the material when using forged documents, either for EU entry or for real documents for third countries. So these are just the kind of measures that are necessary to make these phenomena more effective or to detect them. At the extreme stage, this will mean that the police will be able to see even more fully the criminal environment and also to treat air passengers equally or equally and that conditions will be ensured that police action is less likely to be adapted by those who intend to commit serious crimes. Also legally speaking, given that the European Directive provides for this option, it may be considered to be appropriate to be weighed by a strict proportionality test. On the basis of coordination with the information officer, however, we have also added the deadline or time of application of these amendments, i.e. one year since the entry into force of the UNPPol. However, it must also be said that this analysis or risk assessment has also been commended in the international environment, and we have followed all the comments made by the Ministry of Justice. As has already been said, we have also added a one-year deadline in further coordination with the Information Commissioner. However, it should also be stressed that the police are now able to scrutinise all passengers, which is also the basic task of the police as such, the search for persons and objects. Even now, hidden dedicated controls are being carried out and PNR data will be added.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u219	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When we discuss the powers of the police, the fight against crime, I would say a brief anecdotes. About eight years ago, I was an inspector for cultural heritage. When we were in a training session organised by Europol – and we were there with colleagues from the criminal police – we also watched a short film where a repentant criminal told us some experiences. And on the question of who interviewed him, what to improve in procedures now, or how to act preventively, he first began to laugh. Thus, for about 15 minutes he laughed, after he calmed down, and said: “Listen, you are always a few steps behind crime. You're a couple of steps behind us. First, the powers, yours, are related to certain procedures, you have to follow the CAP, you have to follow the instructions of the prosecutor, the investigating judge, we do not need to follow that. On the other hand, we improvise, work when it seems to us, which we think is the best way to achieve the goal. Second, the budget. Your budget is limited. You sometimes have to ask for exceptional resources to achieve some special technical improvement, our budget is unlimited. Where there's a lot of money going around, and there's a lot of money going around, we can use unlimited resources. And third time, technique. Your technique is out of date with us. We use the state-of-the-art technique, we also have the cooperation of scientists, which we pay well, you are also here a few steps behind us." So much for this myth, about all the powers of the police, how it moves in with crime. It doesn't go hand in hand with crime. And this law is trying to reduce this hole a little bit, or it's going to bring it a little bit to optimum strength. Comrade Duck two years ago all worried showed some boots and some bad profiles of some tires and some bad old cars and was all worried about this equipment used by the police. And then he complained about how he was unable to provide some security for the citizens and that she was also dangerous to herself. In this sense, I am surprised that there are so many concerns about some tools that in themselves mean nothing. The tools themselves don't mean abuse. Specifically, use of drones. The drones are in Slovenia, if I'm not mistaken, a few 10,000. It's almost some kind of everyday technical aid. And according to current legislation, if there were any demonstrations outside, as Mr Gorenak had previously described, a group of some malicious people would gather there, RTV Slovenia would be able to shoot them with a drone and the cops would have to climb up to the roof and then shoot them from there, maybe some more would have fallen down. So this is probably some kind of meaningful measure in following up on some kind of technological progress. Auto-recognizable plates. If someone's driving some suspicious car today, they need to call the radio downtown to check his database, who's even driving in front of him. Before this is established, before he examines it, it may be a half minute or a minute past and it is also a fateful time behind. Modern technology allows him to know at the moment who he has ahead of him and can take appropriate action in an inappropriately short time, which is certainly reasonable. As far as these databases are concerned, the minister said so. I personally have no problem if my data are in addition to all others in some air carriers databases and my data will also be verified on the basis of a sample. I don't mind. If that makes one less plane fall, I'll be very happy and happy. Because I have been traveling for the last two, three years to the Canary Islands and once to Portugal in Italy, I will certainly not be thrown out as a suspicious person, for whom the analyst will then check what exactly I was doing in these countries. If, I don't know, I'm going to drive to Afghanistan three times a year, or Pakistan, or some other country where we know that some psychotropic substances are being produced, for example, and then it'll probably be justified to examine me. In this sense, we need to ask ourselves what kind of police we have, whether we trust it or not. The public trusts her. According to public polls, around 70%, some of the specific overstatements of police powers have not been recorded in recent times, at least not in large numbers. Those rejections that happen, but must be sanctioned, the police must also have proper control over what they have. So in this sense, I do not see here any particular reason why we should be incredibly concerned that only by granting powers and improving technical means should we go to some totalitarian police state. This seems to me to be out of place, the important thing is that we have a democratic arrangement, that we have regulated police control, and if this works, I think there will be no problem with the allocation of additional powers and the strengthening of technical resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u221	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Dr. Brglez, look, there's, like, a week's doctorate in this national council reference. Is that right? And I, Mr Gorenak, say, in serious matters we can talk seriously and not insult each other, which, when SMC is out of arguments, is not a practice for people who have the highest level of education. I'd kind of go over it, but you know, if you'd listened to Dr. Matic, those shoes. That's obviously your attitude to the police. I am still concerned about the situation in the Slovenian police. I am concerned about the situation at the top of the Slovenian police force, I am concerned that Tetra is not functioning as it should be. I'm worried about Ornig's stories, and I'm worried about some things that I should close this meeting to talk about here. I agree on one matter with Mr Matić, and I myself fear that these matters will not work because the police are not equipped to do so. I am not an expert on the life of the German population in Ljubljana during a certain historical period, I did not have manuscripts in my hands, although I would like them because I do not work in the archive, but I am an expert in certain areas. I've been a doctor in information policy. If I know anything, I know what the question of privacy in the information society is, and as a Member, I will not allow myself to be offended in this way. And I expect him to apologize to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u223	There can't be a replica on a procedural basis, but there can be a debate, which is possible because it's still time. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, because you all apply in a row, the time SMC still has for discussion, and if anyone applies, they can always apply. I ask if there is still interest in the debate. It's obvious. So I'm opening up an opportunity to discuss it. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The time available to me can be spent in accordance with this item of the agenda and I say the following. Once again, we have supported the previous law, the police, unanimously, as you know. It was things that were undeniable. I must say that from the very beginning, when this law was formed in the interior ministry, and after it came to the government and to Parliament, of course I was counting on being in charge of the parliamentary group, which I was. Second thing, I read it thoroughly. To be honest, those stories about records and things mentioned by the information officer are so written that you don't understand them anyway, and I didn't try to understand them, but I listened to the information officer. Next. I've been trying my best to get the Group of Members to support this law. Why? Because, after all, it is probably in the interest of all of us to have an effective police force, and there is no reason for a person to actively oppose such things. Let's also say that if I walk through these articles, see, to Article 3, you supported our amendment, I think, logically. With regard to Article 23, I repeat, the lower standards achieved with the surplus of 2013. If he has now decided on a modified identity and vehicle, if you want the technical means of the police, the prosecutor will now decide the Director-General of Police, which is bad. Which is bad. I don't know why you're doing this so that what's already been achieved as a high level is lower. If I move forward, it was at least controversial for us, and we have also amended this, the area of gathering notices. Why are you lowering the level? I can't support it. I've explained plastic before. If a police officer came to see Dr. Trczek to ask if he saw, noticed the burglar or any suspicious event, he now had to inform the neighbor and say that he did not have to cooperate with the police, that he was still being asked to help them, and that he could remain anonymous. He won't have to do that after the new one. Why are you lowering the level? The amendment that you tabled, however, is scribbled, so it's nowhere to be found. The amendment says: a police officer teaches a person the right to volunteer, anonymity during the gathering of notices, unless it is a conversation about the initiative of a person. This means that if Mr. Duck's neighbor said, "I'm calling 113", or the police, "because I want to tell them something, I saw the burglar..." Yes, of course, then the police will not inform him: “You don’t need to talk.” But if he wants to speak for himself. That makes sense to me. Give me that dot. You do not want to give a dot, but you have “or in the case of preventive activities”. Yeah, damn it, what kind of preventive police activity isn't preventable? [[…]] Which one? Well, tell me. So, officer, in your own words, you'd better write it like you wanted the police not to be obliged to inform the person who's giving notice to the police. You'd better write that down. And lower standards. It's not good for you to lower them. Next thing we know, we've talked a lot about a technical story. [[…]] You don't want to understand that some of the people the police are looking for because they want to be arrested – I'm talking about Article 43 and Article 114 of the Law – that one of the people who are wanted by the police because they have to be arrested because they have escaped from prison, killed someone or don't know what they have entered the country illegally to bring them to trial and prosecute them. The other is those who are lost — the old mother is no longer found due to sclerosis back to the pensioner’s home. That's a missing person. And I just wanted to offer you the pure text of the law, and that's all. No, you said. Okay. Let's move on. Then, of course, it's a paralyzing question. I don't have any trouble with the stunner myself. Because I think they have it all over Europe. Any other problems? I don't think he's here. Although it has to be said that experts also oppose it. And our text was merely focused on making technical improvements, if you want, to make a more transparent text. We also brought in the fact that those officers who are qualified to do so can use it. But well, now you've put this in Article 74, or there's a solution to that question, so there's no major problem with that in fact. But what's really disturbing is why you have to go as a roller coaster over an information officer. I believe the Minister has been coordinated, of course they have been coordinated, but you know, the fuck is coordination, when the Minister ends up cutting up, that's how it's going to be, I'll send it to Parliament, or to the Government then to Parliament. This is just the way it is, and it is probably necessary to listen a little more to the information authorities. Let's talk about air passengers. Yeah, you don't have to do that in internal years, that's what the information officer said. Our regulation does not oblige us on internal flights. No, you put it in. I don't know why I should be more papal than the Pope, I'll say. In short, if I finish. In view of the fact that you also have opposition to the law in the coalition, at least it looks like so, we too will have a strong discussion at the meeting about how we will deal with this matter. It's wrong, I'm saying again, because I also have to be professional for – because of those 30 years of police work – that cops have more authority. Yeah. However, it is not necessary to lower the standards already in place. But I told you two standards where you lowered it. Because it's not good. That's just not good. Those ultra lefties – who now praise me here, I see, on Twitter, your yes, okay – will probably resent you a lot. A lot of hard feelings. They will justifiably tell you that right-wing men have made even better and higher standards than you are now introducing by lowering standards in this law. Which will be for me – I have to tell them that they are right, so there is no need for procedural. They're right. They're right, you know. In short, if I finish. With some good intent of marriage because of the stubbornness that I said before in the coalition L'Etat c'est moi, the country is me, so you're wearing it, but only 13 months more, and then there's a funeral, you know. [[…]] See, that's the problem. That's not how I'm gonna handle it. I'm gonna say it's like the coalition ate the whole mind of this world. There are other people who know something. Among them, the first or only doctor who doctored from police authority is also against it. I'm talking about Dr. Zaberl. Look, I don't know, the profession, the profession, the profession and again the profession, you say. Why won't you listen to him? Did you ask him to join a group of Members? I consulted him, logically, because I've known him for, I don't know, 40 years. And if he thinks things aren't going the right way, then something's wrong. And also in Legal Practice he said why, you could read in the introduction to one of the numbers. I'm sorry you're so stubborn, and I'm gonna end up at this point. Maybe then, at the consultation or whatever we've got for the last half hour, you'll think about something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u225	Dr. Dragan Matić has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u226	Thank you for your word. After these repeated funeral forecasts in 15 months — I don't know, 15 months from now, that someone can give a funeral in advance — that's really a prophetic ability. It'll be interesting to see whose funeral this is going to be. But the joke's on the side. Mr Trček, if this will restore your peace of mind, I can apologize to you, but I must admit that I do not understand why I should apologize to you for being offended. All I did was point out that two years ago you were discussing how bad it was, because the police had such bad cars, bad tires, bad shoes and so on. It's some kind of equipment, some kind of tool, and today we're discussing something like this. It was in your speech to understand that I have too little knowledge to be able to discuss competently, and as you may be discussing Mr Gorenak, perhaps Mr Dobovšek, because these are your areas. Mr Trček, because I have been watching you for a while, and all are your areas, agriculture, infrastructure, digitisation, internal affairs. It is right that these are all your areas, because here we are Members and we can all discuss everything, all our areas. By the way, speaking of competences, I have been a cultural heritage inspector for 10 years and actively suppressed crime in the field of art and cultural heritage. So much for practice. Now, as far as you have practice in this area, I don't know, because I didn't go Google your doctorate and your past. But it might be that, firstly, as I would say, you start to have a vehemently debate about some more and some less qualified Members for certain debates, wondering who it is and who it is, because it would also avoid many calls for apologies or requests for apologies. I don't think that's necessary. We are here to discuss on the basis of arguments. I have only mentioned that you have been very concerned about the police's tools and equipment, that right now right here, where it wants to strengthen this area, that the police can be more qualified and that they will have more opportunities to ensure the public safety of all citizens, but you are slightly in one other position. That's just what I pointed out and nothing else. And once again, to make it easier for you to survive, of course, I apologize to you, otherwise I don't know what for, but so be it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u227	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. It's very beautiful and short. The police must have appropriate powers with security guards and with supervision. This is all a story, Comrade Matić, and we have not yet reached the subject, and this is a tragedy of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u229	I ask if there is any other interest in the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah. You don't have time, so I can't count you. There's no time-sharing, unfortunately, there's no time-sharing at this point. Is there any other interest? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on these articles. I'm moving on to the last one. That's paragraph 43. So, I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the United Left. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Civil Procedure Act within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nejc Bezovar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u230	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Municipal Government presents the first amendment of the Act since its entry into force in January 2007. It has been a decade since the adoption of the Law on Municipal Government. During this time, certain system rules have been amended, which also affect the functioning of municipal registries. The former Police Act was followed by the Law on Police Tasks and Powers and the Law on Organising and Working in the Police, and a new Law on Police Powers was adopted. The harmonisation of ZORED is therefore also necessary with the Law on Local Self-Government, the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Offences and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. At the same time, in this decade, the municipal authorities have developed so much that the law in force is already restricting the effective implementation of the editorial service, so we have prepared a new regulation only in those articles that will allow more effective implementation of the regulation. Among other things, the types of powers do not change and the conditions for the use of the physical force and the gas dispenser change. The current ZORED shall lay down the conditions under which the municipal editor may retain the person, but shall not contain provisions which would enable the municipal editor to exercise that authority in cases where the person fails to comply with his or her oral order or order and tries to leave. In addition, the current ZORED amends those provisions which have been assessed to be partially ineffective and will set the amendment as an effective organisation and performance of the tasks of the municipal department. In short, what are the concrete changes? By amending Article 5, ZORED shall be subject to the provisions of the Law on Public Servants governing the manner in which the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is appointed and to the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government governing the establishment of common municipal administrations. With regard to the powers of the municipal editor, Article 10 of the ZORED shall be added, which shall be in a manner consistent with the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. The types of powers vested in the municipal editor shall not be changed. The proposed amendments are consistent with the unification of the designation of the same powers as the municipal editor and the police, and consequently constitute a clearer application of the provisions of the Law on Police Tasks and Powers. By amending Article 12 ZORED, the way in which identification, prior to identity, can be changed, the municipal editor can now carry out identity assessments, but not in the same way as a policeman who has the right to look at the data contained in the relevant records and other databases. Article 13 governing the detention of a person and Article 14 determining the use of coercive means are also amended. The municipal director will be allowed to use the physical force and the gas dispenser in cases where the person does not comply with his or her oral order or order and will try to leave. In the use of coercive funds, the municipal editor is committed to respect the principle of proportionality at all times and will always use the most appropriate means of enforcement. Articles 16, 17 and 18 have also been recast, which regulates the supervision of the use of the powers of the municipal editor. Article 17, in particular, was unclear in some parts and the ZORED amendment systematically and in a more transparent manner, provides for three forms of supervision: firstly, the obligation to report to municipal officials in the cases referred to in Article 16 and the supervision of the Head of Municipal Staff in the cases referred to in Article 17, paragraph 1, secondly, the Commission in the cases referred to in Article 17, paragraph 2, and thirdly, the decision on complaints addressed by the mayor as chairman of the administration and thus by the municipal authorities for any infringement of the rights and freedoms referred to in Article 19 of the ZORed Act. Article 20, which also lays down the conditions for the performance of the duties of the authorised persons of the municipal registrar, and Article 28a, which provides for the keeping of records of the use of coercive funds, shall be amended. The amendments to the law have no financial implications, but I can also point out that ZORED has been widely coordinated with the professional and interested public for more than a month of public debate, from 10 to 15 June 2016. We received 4 opinions, including a positive opinion from the Municipality of Ljubljana, which employs about one fifth of the editors in the Republic of Slovenia. After the deadline, we also received initiatives from certain NGOs and, despite the deadline, we listened to their initiatives and incorporated them into the law. We also replied in an argument to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Finally, let me add that the ZORED proposal does not regulate the municipal police or introduce the municipal police, but rather improves the conditions for the work of the municipal registrar as a criminal body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u231	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Ms Janji Slug, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u232	Thank you very much, President! At its 32nd regular meeting, on 1 February 2017, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Municipal Government, submitted by the Government to the Assembly for its consideration and published on the website of the National Assembly in the Rapporteur of 4 November 2016. The draft law was tabled by the Joint Left Group within the time limit of the amendment. In its supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative stressed that the first amendments to and additions to the law have taken place since its entry into force in 2007 and require particularly difficult practices, as well as amendments to other sectoral legislation. In its presentation of the written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that, with the exception of the comment to Article 1 of the Law, all other comments relate to those parts of the proposal which govern the editorial powers. According to the ZPS assessment, it is reasonable to expect that the municipal law will also incorporate an appropriate level of determination of those powers of municipal directors comparable to those of police officers. It further presented these relevant comments. It assessed that their comments remained substantiated. The representative of the Council of State said that the State Council Commission for State Orders supported and outlined the progress of the debate in the State Council. In the debate, the members of the Commission highlighted the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. It was also doubtful that there would be no uniform control over the exercise of the same substantive powers. The Commission also drew attention to the different qualifications of municipal officials and police officers. In its position, the Information Officer identified itself under the proposed new Article 28a of the Act, which establishes a new record of the use of coercive funds managed by the Municipal Office, with particular emphasis that the proposal for a law requires an explicit provision defining the purpose of keeping this record and the circle of beneficiaries of access to such data. It also suggested that consideration should be given to setting a more appropriate time limit for storage. In the debate, Members stressed that the area of municipal registrarship needed a new integrated and better regulation. Some proposals have also been made for the replacement of the Ministry of the Interior, since the Ministry of the Interior, as well as some opinions on the establishment of a single ministry responsible for local self-government, would be more appropriate for this area. Members of the coalition's committee stressed that the solutions to the draft law are supported by the majority. The Director-General of the Directorate-General for Police and Other Security Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior explained, inter alia, that there is still a significant difference between the recruitment and exercise of the powers of police officers and municipal officials and that the Ministry of Internal Affairs regularly organises their training. The Committee further voted on the amendments of the Joint Left Group and adopted the amendments to Articles 2, 4 and 6, while the amendment of the same motion to Article 5 was not voted on as it became irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the home labour body, the Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government of the National Assembly proposes that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Municipal Editorial Affairs be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u233	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 25th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item and the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 6 p.m. and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u234	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 19, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Minister of Justice Mag. On the basis of Article 62a, paragraph 1, of the Law on Courts of the National Assembly, Goran Klemenčič proposed that he appoint a mag as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. Damiana Floriančič, supreme judge at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Goran Klemenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u235	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As Minister of Justice today, in accordance with article 62a of the Law on Courts, I propose that a mag be appointed President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for the term of office of six years. Damian Floriančič, who is currently the supreme judge. Judge Floriančič has had more than 30 years of judicial practice in all courts, he was a first-rate judge, a senior judge, and also a chief judge in the criminal field since 2010. In addition to the trial, he carried out the tasks of the judicial administration. For seven years, he was president of the Central Court and then of the District Court in Cyprus. In his capacity as Judge at the Ministry of Justice, he performed important tasks related to the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union between 2007 and 2008. Later, he was appointed by the then Council of Justice and then Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovra Šturm, as one of the first directors of the Centre for Education in Justice. Judge Mag. Floriančič therefore has not only a judicial career in various instances, but also has experience in managing the judiciary and operating in the wider European area in the fields of justice, legislation, education or training of judicial builders. In a candidature before his colleagues at a general meeting of the Supreme Court, before the Council of Justice and at an interview with him at the Ministry of Justice, he presented in writing and orally a comprehensive strategic programme and a vision of the Supreme Court's activities over the coming years. The candidate is aware of both the shortcomings and challenges facing Slovenian justice in general and the judiciary in particular. It points out that it will advocate greater openness and transparency in the functioning of the judiciary, in order to strengthen the responsibility of the judiciary, of course within the limits of the division of power, in order to raise the quality and thus consolidate judicial practice and legal predictability, and ultimately in order to strengthen the quality, rational and efficient organisation and exercise of the judiciary. Judge Floriančič received the support and trust of his colleagues of the Supreme Judges at the general meeting of the Supreme Court, receiving the support of the Council of Justice. They both gave him a positive opinion. On the basis of its past work and the strategy presented, I can conclude on my own that it is a candidate with personal and professional integrity who fulfils the conditions for the appointment of the new President after the conclusion of the highest court in that country. I hope and believe that today he will also get the confidence of you, honourable Members and Members. At the same time, I would like to add that I hope to be the last Justice Minister to stand before you in this role and thus that Judge Floriančič will be the last President of the Supreme Court elected in this manner. As I have already pointed out in the preliminary procedure on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, Slovenia is the only country in Europe where the candidate for president, after the conclusion of the highest court in the country, has three times to be given political confidence in the highest legislative body – when he is elected as a judge, when he is appointed supreme judge and then when he is elected President of the Supreme Court. In the coming months, you will receive a proposal from me or the government on your bench to amend this remnant of the congregation system. That's when I'm going to call you Lord Mag today. Floriančič, Chief Justice, asked the President of the Supreme Court for support in implementing this legal amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u236	The proposal was treated by the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Mitja Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u237	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President! Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The mandate-election committee is in session 30, 9. 2. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the proposal for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to Article 62a, paragraph 1, of the Law on Courts of the National Assembly 18. 1. 2017 mediated by the Minister of Justice. On the basis of the provisions of Article 62a of the Law on the Courts, the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia shall appoint the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Justice, in the opinion of the Court of Justice and the general meeting of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years, with the possibility of reappointment. In the submission of the proposal, the Minister of Justice, as he himself has just said, stated that at the invitation to apply for the office of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, issued in the Official Journal, number 63, on 7. Ten. 2016 reported two candidates. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 62a of the Judicial Act, the Minister of Justice obtained the opinion of the Court of Justice and the general meeting of the Supreme Court, with both candidates receiving the support of both bodies as President of the Supreme Court. The Minister of Justice also interviewed both candidates. In his proposal, he added a broader explanation, which he concluded by assessing that in the cases of both candidates for a high-level judge of personal and professional integrity who fulfils the conditions for the seat of the highest court in the country, but assesses the candidate of mag. Mr Damjana Floriančič as a more suitable candidate for the President of the Supreme Court, according to his strategic programme and his career path to date. Minister of Justice, mag. Goran Klemenčič presented his proposal at the meeting of the Commission in the introduction. There was a debate in which members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliament announced that they would not support the candidate, as they believe that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia should appoint a high-level candidate with positive professional references. They stated that there was reasonable doubt regarding the proposed candidate as a result of his participation in the Supreme Court Chamber in the Patrio trial, which, according to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, violated human rights. They were also interested in the candidate’s affection for other issues in the judiciary. The Head of the Modern Centre Party Group highlighted the candidates' positive references mentioned in the proposal and expressed support to the candidate. In response to the questions raised by the opposition Members, the Minister of Justice presented the envisaged changes in procedures towards greater transparency. Following the discussion, the Commission adopted the following decision: The Commission proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a decision appointing the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a mag as President of the Supreme Court. Damian Floriančich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u238	Here comes the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Franz Breznik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Transition justice has obviously not been brought to life in Slovenia and will never be. This is a message from the Minister of Justice, Mr Magi. Klementzel. By Titus Tito, by Maslesha mag. Damian Floriančich. And in the country that had suffered the greatest genocide since World War II, in the country of numerous legal killings, in the country of the killings of refugees across the border, more were killed than was the victim of the Berlin Wall, in the country that organized the obituary killings, terrorist acts. And no one's ever been responsible for these crimes. More. No criminal proceedings have been initiated. In another case, the investigating judge rejected the request for a judicial investigation. If transition justice after a quarter of a century, respected colleagues and colleagues, does not get their rights, then democracy comes from the outside. This is an irrefutable proof of the dysfunction of the judicial system in the Republic of Slovenia. In 2015 alone, the European Court of Human Rights issued 14 judgments concerning Slovenia, in 13 cases since 14 it found human rights violations. The Supreme Court is the one called to judge the violation before it goes to Strasbourg. The case always stops in the Supreme Court, and the judges are the ones who should recognize the violation, they should recognize the European Convention on Human Rights. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the problem is mainly in the predominant mental rigidity of the judiciary, in corporate and collective judicial consciousness, in short, in the autonomy of the judicial mind. We always support the free and creative young judges, and among the judges we believe that there is not enough courage and individualism. It's too much of a collective spirit to live somewhere in the past. He's a mag candidate. Damjan Floriančič also, after a study by former professor Dr. Lovro Šturm, former Minister of Justice, who has found violations of the human rights of many Senates and has found that at least 2 000 254 Slovenian judges in the 101st Chamber of Slovenian Courts have violated human rights, I repeat. Among them, the proposed Magi has been proposed several times in several Chambers. Damian Floriančich. Mag. Damjan Floriančič, as you said today, also participates in the pedagogical processes of educating younger judges. What was that teacher who was in the Senate about the Patrio case and rejected the complaint in two respects, namely, for the protection of legality, especially for exceptional remedies, so it concerns the mounted trial in the independent country of Slovenia. So a judgment that, we can say, will have an epilogue in a number of textbooks of later generations of students of many legal colleges. How can this man be at the top of the judicial system? Is this man autonomous, is he attached to respect for human rights or does he have zero tolerance for human rights violations and is it discontinuity or is it the continuity of a legal thought that should have long since been in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia? Today you give a signal to all those who will give, we can say, a positive opinion and who will also vote for the candidate, so you give a positive opinion and this coalition gives a positive opinion in terms of "want to change without change". What changes can happen if such people represent an elite at the summit, we can say, the Supreme Court, so in the position of President of the Supreme Court? What is this message to the public, what this message is to the professional public not only in the Republic of Slovenia, but throughout Europe. According to such statistics that the Slovenian courts, when setting up the mirrors of the courts in Strasbourg, we have to ask ourselves what the policy was doing, not a policy that wanted to influence the courts that never affected them, but what policy meant in the judicial system itself, their internal policy, their internal policy, which is always and everywhere, the younger candidates who were autonomous, who were independent, who came forward with a word when human rights were violated, were removed from this system. They've never run. Most of the time it went, you could say, for the continuity of negative human resources selection. And mag. Damjan Floriančič represents exactly this. It represents changes without change and presents the thought: According to Titus Tito, according to Maslesha mag. Damian Floriančich. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u240	We are done with the presentation of the Group's position. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Maybe first of all, what the minister said, how judges walk, or who is a candidate for the Supreme Court, three times to the National Assembly. During 40 years of work, MEPs go ten times. But they go to elections, the real ones, in front of people, so that's no big deal. But as for the candidate you want today, and you'll probably confirm it, the following is. See, it is understandable to me that the judicial system is simply composed so that the Court of First Instance decides, the second stage can be annulled for such or other reasons, and then, of course, the Supreme Court. But look, I will always understand the mistakes of judges at lower levels, especially because they are beginners and so on and so forth. But there is something else to know that when someone comes to the Supreme Court, mistakes should no longer be. In fact, our target situation should be such that in Strasbourg, Slovenia will no longer be condemned for some of the things that the Supreme Court has overlooked. This time, however, we are talking about a man who will be clear to you who has not only violated human rights, he has sent you to prison by his decision not to commit a crime. That's what the Constitutional Court said. The Constitutional Court based the case of Patria on Article 28 of the Constitution, which states very clearly: “No one can be tried if the offence has not been attributed as a crime before the service.” That's about it. So if you do what you do to send someone to prison as a supreme judge, then that's too bad. And then that drop over the edge, which is why you can't, I'll say simple, not even run for president. At least I don't think so. Look, I would remind you once again of the 2010 event, when the SD MP, as she was already writing, always forget how? [[…]] Lover Bebler. She said that someone, this was Mr. Schorli, could not be the President of the Supreme Court, because he was a judge in a Senate that said he had forgiven a certain policy, Paula Rupla. We don't even know how he voted. Well, that was the criteria for SD back then. Besides, Lavtizar Bebler's a little bit on his fingers then, but that's what she just said, we all know that. So that was the criteria for forgiving someone. Today, we are not talking about forgiveness, but we are talking about someone being sent to prison for an offence that is not a crime. Well, this one's qualified by the criteria. That's a good one. This also corresponds to what Mr Zląbet said, and he wrote it down. He said that Slovenian justice is quite independent, the legislation is perfectly fine, roughly so he said, but the problem is politics. But not the one from the outside. There's no policy issues from the outside. The judiciary has problems with politics at home in its own kind because it has never left the judiciary. Gone. But he was talking about that policy from before 1990. So it is clear that this policy has not left the judiciary. And this candidate obviously fits. It corresponds to at least the majority in this national council. Sort of. It is interesting, however, that there was another candidate of this gentleman in this process, as you well know, who – what happened? He voted that Mr Maslesa must be eliminated on the Patrio issue. You see, this one didn't even come to the minister's table, but all the procedures were stopped before. He's not without such sins that we don't mean it. But again, what happened in 2010 is what happens: the candidate by the political left. You see, and that's a big problem. This is a major problem, and it is entirely impossible to support a person like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u242	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I'll do some more of my thinking, and he'll start somewhere where colleague Gorenak ends up. I'll paraphrase the Constitutional Judge Evil because I think he saw the future. When you mentioned today that you will never again, as long as you are the Justice Minister, to bring about a reform in this part, that the National Assembly will no longer have the right to rule on the judges who will begin, that is, the people who go on a permanent mandate. At that time Jan Zlłbec wrote famous quotations “The soft belly of the Slovenian judiciary”. You've read it several times. Among other things, paraphrasing is the next sentence. »The cardinal problem of the Slovenian judiciary is the judiciary itself. First of all, the policy in it, where, as the legacy of the totalitarian period, it was preserved in stricken old regime mental patterns and in collective corporate thinking. There, as one of the forms parallel or disguised, or if you want a deep state of preservation and self-containment, it is thoughtfully, valuablely and also visually supplied and fertilized through institutional closure and self-sufficiency.” This institutional incarceration will happen with the last act of mags. Klementzel. Then his, we could say, political paradigm will somehow be completed as far as justice is concerned. That's the problem he's got. Today, Minister, you have suggested that the candidate is right in his programme, which we have never seen build on consistent jurisprudence. I agree, but it is the candidate who has led an unconstant case-law that will generate and generate new litigation. What case law is the rejection of a Senate in the Patricia case? Tell me what the case law is, what is the answer to the lower courts in the Patria case, if this is the case law of the Supreme Court. Do you know what the U.S. Supreme Judges look like? What's their career before that? Generally, judges of lower courts have been named by them a number of precedental court cases in which they have demonstrated all their intellectuality, superiority in law, where new foundations have been laid in law. And that is exactly what we want in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is why we support the younger judges, mostly educated in foreign universities, who look outside the box. You know, in a judicial system where everyone feels the same way, nobody thinks. That's the problem. And the problem with the political process that happened that there was no security guard. We could say that the judges in some district court in Ljubljana can also be forgiven for her slip. But that the Supreme Court does not recognize this or the Supreme Court, which will have to represent, respected colleagues, some elite judiciary, some intellectual superiority of law in practical terms is Look, this is a pogrom. [[…]] That's our problem. We can say that in a symbolic sense, we would expect a minister who speaks most of the time to favour the prosecution of economic crimes and the prosecution of other crimes, and therefore decided to propose a candidate rather than a Mr Stravs, who was in the civilian department. And interestingly enough, Mr. Steves, we had the first procedure where no one signed up. So there's nothing left after Maslesha, it's just fog yet, there's no more sky. There was a second procedure where Mr Mag's application was made. Stravs — and what happened? He received support at a general meeting of the Supreme Court and was not confirmed by the Council of Justice. And then comes the third trial, where, in fact, no member of the Supreme Court dared to apply again and then somehow comes up with the superior candidate, the gentleman you represent today. Let me tell you, Mr. Mag. Damjan Floriančič was also the one who, when Mrs Zbez was expelled from the Supreme Court, wanted to be eliminated, and this was even rejected several times, and then Mr Maslesa presented his own, as we say, superior candidate, who will support this mounted process in this collective thinking. And, look, it worked. One year from now, they have their education back in Primorsk and Mag. Floriančič invites almost all people to this education, both in the Supreme Court and in the district, who teach young lawyers. Complete human rights violators in some proceedings were then handed over to young lawyers — future judges. Look, this is this collective thought, this closed circle of the Slovenian judiciary, and this is the problem that awaits us in the future. Mag. The Clementzel predicted it would be even worse. This is today's message from the Minister of Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u244	We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which the Minister of Justice of the Magi gets the floor. Goran Klemenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u245	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. If you interrupt, I'll understand because I won't be nice. Look, Mr. Breznik or Beznik, I think you, my colleague told me, and Mr. Gorenak, for the first time, is not true. Straws, like the Mag. Florianchich. I had a very correct conversation with both of them, and then I heard from both of them, and I had a correct relationship. I told you why I suggested one or the other. That's the first thing. The second thing, according to Titus Tito, according to Masles Floriančič, I think, you know, one of yours or your model president, Mr Trump, is recently around his executive order banning travel or entering America, which was annulled by a federal court, a federal court which was also composed of judges appointed by George W. Bush, said: So-called juges. It's nothing compared to what this side is, and I don't mean here NSI, but you, it talks often about the judiciary and the perjury. And then he's a candidate for the President of the Supreme Court. Why am I saying this? [[…]] Because Mr. Beznik, or Beznik, or Beznik, said if I knew what the judges in America were like. Donald Trump's candidate for one of the Supreme Court members, Mr Gorsuch, then stated that he felt hurt and demoralised, that someone spoke of the judiciary as such. You talk about it all the time. You didn't find anything on Mr. Floriančič except that he was a member of the Senate on Patria, and you don't know how he voted. I don't care. You don't know how he voted, I don't know how he voted. If you confirm the law of justice tomorrow and in a few months [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u246	Quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u247	The law on criminal procedure, where we first introduce it, not you who have had an eight-year government, introduce that judges can write separate opinions, will know how someone voted, nothing else. [[…]] You have nothing else against him. And that's why you got yourself into some general and general way. And what we've already said at the MVK, and again, Mr. Breznik or Beznik will say, at the MVK, he will say that there is probably no judge in the Republic of Slovenia or anywhere in Europe that would not have any enforceable decision, as there is no public official who would not have [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u248	Mr. Pojibich, please. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u249	have any repealed decisions. [[…]] Like it's not on this side and on any other side of the Member, can I continue? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u250	Yes, you can. Please calm down, because we've listened before, although probably no one has agreed, but we've listened. The basic hold in democracy is to obey. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u251	More than once today, it has been said that someone should have been imprisoned for guilt. In this Chamber there are people who have raised their hand for the law on offences, which resulted in the removal of prison by a decision of the Constitutional Court in prison of over 10,000 Slovenians, various citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who were later found to be unconstitutional. During the time of the Government of Janez Janša, the Law on Electronic Communications was passed, which kept all the telecommunications data of a million and a half Slovenian citizens illegally and unconstitutionally for two years. Therefore, please, no one is without sin in this sense. And today, look, you can stand on your head there because now you're swinging your hand, but I'll tell you again, Mr Floriančič, if all you can find in all your undisputedly quite capable intelligence service is that he participated in the Patrio process, he's an excellent candidate. And I say once again, elect him as the judge of the Supreme Court, who will preside over the highest court in the country for the next six years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u252	I'm closing the debate. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing mag as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. Damian Floriančič, supreme judge at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left. How? On your own? On behalf of the MP? Mr Janez Janša has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I recall the session where we discussed and voted on the predecessor or on the man who is being replaced by Mr Floriančič today. This was a time when the Slovenian judiciary had some average reputation according to European criteria and when some of us warned that by appointing Mr Masles as President of the Supreme Court this reputation would fall strongly and that the erosion of the Slovenian judiciary would begin. At that time, the Supreme Court or the ordinary judiciary was headed by a man who pronounced the last death penalty in the former Yugoslavia, a man who approved the aggression against Slovenia and a man who confirmed the unlawful murder at the border between Slovenia and Italy. Civilians. Now after six years the reputation of the Slovenian judiciary is the lowest in Europe, less than a quarter of Slovenians trust the Slovenian judiciary. This judiciary is entrusted only to those who are employed by it and to those parts of the policy that benefit from it. Today, in a well - known place, a reward, a well - known prize, is awarded to a corrupt man who helped steal the election. A corrupt act from the very beginning to the end. By doing so, you are merely continuing the erosion of a system that is vital to the normal functioning of the country. I don't know, Mr Beznik, Beznik, who is Mr Klemenčič Kremenčič, I don't know. Clearly, this doubt in this hall is permitted under this guidance. In short, the predecessor of the Minister of Justice was similarly vehemently defending Mr Masles six years ago and look where you came from with this court. This appointment today is not legitimate, but it is corrupt, evidently corrupt. Have your own judges. Let them judge you, we do not recognize this appointment, it is not legitimate.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u254	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group and, if possible, no offense to names? Please! The one who said so was the first to do so in this national assembly. He knows who it is. The one who spoke last, and that about me! That's an evidentiary fact. Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? It's not. The explanation, in its own name, is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u255	Thank you for your word. Look who's listening to this is probably clear to him why our judgment is in condition, as it is. Now that I am listening to this, I am even more confident and share the same opinion with the President of the Constitutional Court, we have nothing to do with politics, and now I'm going to say, "screw" by the regular judges and the judiciary. They should be thirsty for themselves, should choose for themselves, as is the case in all around normal countries, and I hope that we will also have to change the constitution and that this proposal will contain it. In other words, even if we castrate all our judiciary a little bit in Turkey's way now, in which there are also quite a few cases to settle, this party, which has now been the loudest, will be several judges in six months who are already wrong because they will respect the Slovenian Constitution in some areas that the SDS will not answer. And to the end. When we had a law on foreigners, you had “the same one from Strasbourg” and now you have “a great court from Strasbourg”. If I have anything in this national council, it's a duplicity that some of you have been running for too long. There are a third branch of government that must cease to be subject to the derogation of the other two branches of government, the National Assembly must stop being subject to a derogation by the executive authority, and these are some of the minimum conditions for approximately normal parliamentary democracy. After 25 years, it's time to get there. I hope that in 15 months people will have a little bit more sense when the elections are held. Thank you for your word. I'll be held back for the principle reason that I'm already abstinence.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u256	Is there any other explanation? Mr Franz Breznik has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u257	Thank you very much. As you may understand, I will not support the proposal for the President of the Supreme Court because I am holding a re-judication before me, the Court of the District Court in Novi Gorica, on 5 May 2003, number 17/2003, i.e. the judgment composed by the Senate of Damian Floriančič, Aleš Arh, Mirjana Vlasić. The judgment was, of course, dropped at the Constitutional Court, a violation of Article 37 of the Constitution in 2008, number 300/ 2008 of 20. Ten. 2008 As you know, lies are the immortal soul of communists and their ideological heirs. That's my rule, and I insist. / advertising from the hall/ Let me say this in the end. I hope you'll calm down. [[…]] Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, when we want to explain our voice, when we give arguments that must be held, we also talk about giving support to independent judges, all autonomous judges and judges who advertise, who are loud and who can never reach the top of the justice system in the Republic of Slovenia. They are intended for our opinions. They are intended for many of our students abroad, for all those who have finished but can never return to the Republic of Slovenia. Not in law school, not in court. All of them are destined for this courage. One day, courage will win. You may be winners today, but believe me, someday the Slovenian judges will be re-appreciated. Then there will be no more mags. Klemenčič or Klemenčič. At that time, there will be no Mr Masleš, but many books will be written that will go into the subject of legal history, as the continuity of perverted judicial philosophy and jurisprudence continues in Slovenia. At that time, this Slovenia will shine and then the judiciary will be as we want it to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u258	Procedurally, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u259	Thank you very much. If a lie is truly the immortal soul of communism, then colleague Beznik is the greatest communist in this national council. Otherwise, my procedural proposal is not very different from what my colleague, Duck, has already proposed. Can we please stop with the derogation of the legislative branch of power by the executive branch or, at this moment, more important and more pertinent, the third derogation, that is, the judicial branch of authority by certain Members and political options? I really think that being a judge requires a lot of practice, experience, education, and I don't think anyone deserves to be dealt with in such a grave and ugly way. The fact that you come to the National Assembly and you're a Member, I finally look at certain faces, and it's clear to me that this can happen to you even though you're a huge liar and you're a platypus, you're rotten. It takes a lot more than that for you to get into some high court office.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u260	What I have to say is a procedural abuse because it's not based on anything. But I have seen that the interest in further interpretation or explanation is in your own name, so please apply. We'll make the application first, then you'll get the procedure. First of all, Mr Franz Breznik has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Dear President! After all the practice you have put into practice in the National Assembly, I believe in the discrimination of the Slovenian Democratic Party under your rule as President of the National Assembly, but in such a grave insult, when someone calls me a liar, a communist, I expected you to hurry. For me, communism is like me calling you a Nazi or a fascist. In your sick ideology, because we haven't broken up with this, it's a good thing. That is why I ask you, Your Honor, and this is my procedural proposal that my colleague Kordiša, who is indeed talking about himself, after such a story you have come to this Parliament, and you will also leave. When the Slovenian nation matures when it comes out of transition puberty, believe me, you will be nowhere else. I'm sure. You may be in some puppet theater playing these roles that you are now playing here in Parliament. And we in the Slovenian Democratic Party are used to what Jože Pučnik gave us. You can insult us, you can think of us as liars, Communists, anything. We will take our story forward, the story that once a normal Slovenia wins. And she's gonna win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u262	This was a procedural abuse, so I ask that we stop the abuse of procedure. We have an explanation in our own name. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor to explain his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will not support this proposal that we have on the table. I'd like to draw attention to the following, which I think is very important. Today, the Slovenian people looking at this debate today can only see, in addition to all the things that have happened in the past, what leadership the judiciary has. Today, the Honourable Minister presented here in the National Assembly that key story, which appears in public research, is the opinion of Slovenes and Slovenians when it comes to the judicial branch of power. Today, the Minister demonstrated what should not be and what should not be happening in the judicial branch of government. If the key people in charge of the judiciary can be at their head, they act in front of the National Assembly, as the Minister has permitted today, then we are truly in South Korea or elsewhere. Never in the history of Slovenia has it happened since independence to have such ministers as Minister Klemenčič, who would act so tastelessly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u264	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u265	to Members and Members of the National Assembly and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] That is why we are where we are, and that is why the judicial branch of power also has such public support. It's really embarrassing. I hope that this will never happen again to the electorate and the electorate, so that such people will sit in seats with great powers. I hope that the Slovenian people will never again make such a catastrophic mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u266	Any other explanation for the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 13. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Mr Vid Belet to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary of the Council of Justice, Mrs Ionika Marflak Trontel.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u267	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! At the District Court in Kranj, despite the systemised 16 courts, there are currently 11 judges. Criminal cases under the jurisdiction of the District Court for the entire Gornja District are currently being dealt with by one judge, so that the problem in the criminal law field is indeed a problem. Therefore, in view of the urgency of the ongoing handling of criminal matters, one seat of the District Court in Kranj had to be tendered. 17 candidates applied for the invitation, of which three were lawyers or lawyers, while the other candidates were professional co-workers or professional co-workers in different courts. The specific proceedings before the Council of Justice took place in two stages. On the basis of the written documentation, the Court of First Instance carried out an assessment of the suitability of candidates for the City of Appeal, taking into account, in particular, the final opinion drawn up by the President of the District Court in Kranj, the working experience in the area of criminal offences and the average of the assessments during the study and the legal examination. Subject to these criteria, he decided to invite seven candidates to the oral interview. Following the interviews held, during which the President of the District Court was also present in Kranj, the Council assessed, on the basis of all the documents, oral interviews and the final opinion of the President, that Vid Bele was the most suitable candidate for the conduct of judicial service at the district court in the District Court in Kranj. Allow me to introduce you to the candidate for a moment. Vid Bele graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana in 2003 and became a professional associate in the criminal department where he is still employed after 2008. As part of its work in cooperation with the Judges, the rapporteurs shall report on matters at the meetings of the Senate and shall prepare draft judgments. His hard work and expertise confirm the publication of court decisions in the books collected by the most important decisions of the Supreme Court criminal department, as well as several published expert articles and participation in writing a new comment on the Penal Code. He is regularly educated and actively participates in education as a lecturer. However, it is worth noting that the Head of Criminal Division of the Supreme Court of Vid Belet places above the average of young lawyers specialising in criminal law and that the President of the District Court in Kranj has classified him as one of the three most suitable candidates for the session of the Court of Justice in her final opinion. Thus, an integrated assessment of the expertise, experience and ability of candidates led the Council to conclude that Vid Bele is the most suitable candidate for the City of Justice and therefore proposes to the National Assembly to elect the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Kranj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u268	The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the working body of the State to report in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by which Mr Vid Bele is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a decision on the resolution of the Magi. Valter Drozga with the functions of a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in investing in Block 6 of the Šostanj Termoelectrica. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the second reading of the draft Law on Personal Assistance in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 14. 2. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 7. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 18 votes in favour and 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, DeSUS and SD to Article 9. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 9 votes in favour and 61 votes in favour. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 61.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 11. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 6 votes in favour and 67 votes in favour. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 6 votes in favour and 66 votes in favour. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 66.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Joint Left to Article 26. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 6 votes against 67. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 67.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded by deciding on the amendments as well as the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted for the second reading, the motion for a law in the context of the discussion on the articles of the draft law proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 17. 2. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the articles to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified investors before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on cross-border service delivery on a regular basis. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 49. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 9 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 5. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 9(2). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9 under Articles 3 and 4 shall become irrelevant. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u269	This is a key amendment to this law and our support for this law depends on the results of the vote on this amendment. Let me start by saying that with this amendment in the New Slovenia Group we propose to shorten the deadline in which the ZZZS must issue the form A1, which is reduced to 3 days. Above all, we are trying to implement some substantial bureaucratic simplification, if workers of the Slovenian craftsman or entrepreneur are posted to work across the border and this work is shorter than eight days, then the rules applicable to cross-border postings should apply. It is mainly short-term work, such as editing and other 24 hours of aid or finishing, which is why we are primarily trying to reduce Slovenian bureaucratic barriers. This seems important to us in the fact that Austria has already greatly increased and prevented the work of Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs. This amendment would actually reduce bureaucratic barriers. I think no one would lose, especially for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, to reduce obstacles on the way to working across borders. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u270	An explanation of the voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 48. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9 under Article 3. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 54. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9 under Article 4. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 53. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 13. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 48. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 15. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, chairman. This amendment breaks the support of the United Left to this law. What's this all about? This law introduces subsidiary responsibility in sending workers abroad. It introduces it for the construction sector and introduces it in the case of subcontractors. Therefore, if it comes to the fact that workers did not receive payment from a subcontractor, the customer is responsible for this in the latter part of the service, which is why workers are paid in each scenario. But the point is that this sub-contracting chain usually lasts much longer. If we remember the notorious case of Marof Trade, it wasn't just one subcontractor. It was the second and the third. A whole series of fictitious or less fictitious intermediaries shall be sent in between, destroying such a subsidiary protector. And again, the workers will be the ones left on dry land without a fair pay. Maybe even without any payment, we've had cases like this. At the same time, there is no reason for such a measure to focus solely on the construction sector. I'm going after the Marof Trade case again. In this case, we did not deal with the construction industry, but at the same time, notices, warnings, news, virtually daily, about cases of illegal exploitation of workers. This is nowhere near limited to the construction industry. And what we are doing with this amendment, after all, is that we are actually operationalising the principle and principle of subsidiary responsibility, as already enshrined in this law by its proposer. So there won't be a dead letter on the paper. To really capture all posted workers in all sectors. If this amendment is adopted, we will vote in favour of this law in full in the United Left. But if not, we will abstain in our vote. However, this law takes a step in the right direction, but precisely because this step is half-hearted, it does not achieve the effect that its proponents promise. This effect will only be achieved if our amendment is adopted to Article 15 and the full application of subsidiary responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u272	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. I think Miha has given quite a visual explanation on behalf of the Group of Members. I would add, unfortunately, that I know from the parts where I've been living for the last decade just too many stories when people were posted. I even know a case where they weren't paid for six months in Bautelle, and when many of these key intermediate actors wash their hands in a way, we put the money forward, which then disappeared somewhere. I hope you will support this amendment of ours, to which we will also bind support to the entire law. Of course, I will vote in favour, but I can also say that it saddens me that we have not been so wise as to all support the amendment to Article 9 of the NSI, which unfortunately that vote points to some serious imperfection of the National Assembly. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u274	We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 12 votes in favour and 59 votes in favour. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposed in the debate that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We vote. 73 Members and Members are present and 52 votes against 16. [[The vote was 73.]] [[There were 16 votes against.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 17. 2. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Tasks and Powers in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 2. 2017. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 23 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour. [[The vote was 23.]] [[There were 48 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 9 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups shall become the same Article under number 2 without subject. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? The explanation, on behalf of the Group of Members, is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. We will support this amendment. Ambassador SD colleague Bojana and colleague Gorenak and I wanted this law to become slightly better, we were recently quite lonely in that debate. We will support it simply because it corrects the law in some important direction, because it does not mix apples and pears, and I hope that we will overcome so much maturity that we will all support this amendment and contribute to the end of the DZ derogation.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u276	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 26 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[There were 42 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 9(2). We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour and 12 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[There were 12 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 14. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes in favour and 46 votes in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[There were 46 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 35 under Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SDS Group shall become irrelevant to the same Article under number 2. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u277	Thank you for saying that one more time, chairman. Of course, it is an amendment relating to the problem of paralysis, the introduction of these – not with the goal, but most citizens and citizens, as well as some key actors in civil society, oppose it. In particular, because this proposal for a law on the outside of some of the general Flossules of a culture of fear expressed by the Minister has not even been given the basic reasons why it should be introduced. Nor is the security situation in Slovenia such that it should be introduced and, after all, the experimental introduction has shown that there is no need for this. And even I have to say, Dr. Gorenak, who supports the introduction of a paralyser and somehow SDS restricts this use, has also been so frank that he has admitted that a number of experts from his field have opposed it. In short, not more repression, but actually dealing with the problem of systemic violence that we have in this society will ultimately facilitate the work of the police. However, the Minister herself has somehow put it this way, so that a person can understand if the police get a stunner, she will be happy, but say your own comments. We will support this amendment because we are also ideological, someone has previously spoken the political left, colleague Breznik, we are all political in Parliament. Right, left, center, whatever. And our policy is not a stick policy. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u278	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 5 votes against 65. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 35 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 41. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 46, 47, 49 and 50. If this amendment is not adopted, all the amendments mentioned above will become irrelevant. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u279	Thank you for your word, chairman. The amendments to Articles 41, 42 and 43 basically refer to the fact that we have been living in an information society for at least 30 years. Some SMC doctor said he doesn't care if his data goes to Canary or not, up and down they roll through e-clouds and someone analyzes them. But even colleague Breznik knows that in American law this has been a serious debate under Privatcy Issues for 30 years, I can say, a substantive emphasis. I can say that the protection of privacy and the protection of consumer rights are two areas in Slovenia, which we are so bare that I am literally ashamed. Shame as a Member and shame as a citizen. What are we today? We are today mainly an information vector. Three-quarters of the time in this House is a little bumpy here, you're on Twitter, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up, you're up. And here is another important issue, specifically in this article, the internal-year control that the directive may, no, the minister vehemently says that Slovenia also supports internal-year control, at the committee meeting itself, almost broke my language when I read to you what information is stored here. And stop blinding yourself to find terrorists, serious criminals and so on. Why not, Dr. Matić explained to you in the debate itself. It's actually just going to be a little bit more violence on basically ordinary passengers, because someone might not feel the right color, the right one after the last names. Here, I can explain on my case. In 2010, I taught in Sarajevo, flew up, down for 14 days, hung out there from counselors, Inzkom, to what Franciscans, and probably would have grabbed me as a suspicious person. It seems to me that this issue should not be dealt with so recklessly, so we are proposing that this Article be effectively deleted and that this whole area be seriously considered. We will, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u280	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 57. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 57.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the Amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 41 has not been adopted, the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors have become irrelevant to Articles 46, 47, 49 and 50. The amendment of Article 42 of the SDS Group to Article 1 is essentially the same as the amendment of the United Left Group's Ambassador to Article 42(2), and we will therefore vote on them together. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group's Ambassador to the 42nd Article under number 1 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to the 42nd Article under number 2. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Members of the United Left to Article 43. The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u281	Thanks again for saying that. Look, I'll explain on the case, because once again we're such a small coalition that we don't have so much time in the debate. The area of drones or you want drones. We should answer ourselves, I wrote this during the debate, in a thorough debate on the following questions: what to record and why? Face recognition. How long has she been feeding? Why? Who's got access? For what purpose? What data can be linked to this data? Security personnel are looking at the drone itself on the ground. Who will exercise external control over the use of this. Of course, it is not as they wanted to show in the SMC that the United Left is against the Slovenian police going to the 21st century, that Trčka is only interested in what shoes they will have on the police. Of course I'm interested, and we're about the police moving in time. I don't know, maybe Miha Kordiš will be the acting minister after two mandates, but when we seriously discuss these matters, we need to discuss the scope of the powers, the guards and also the appropriate supervision and how this prevents in particular the interference with what is defined in Article 35 of the Constitution. So, with such an important marriage, because I, Dr. Gorenak, in the vast majority, with the exception of the paralysers, agree, and most of the coalition, with the exception of obviously SD, cut itself, I don't know. Such matters need to be seriously considered. In this way, Slovenia will be in the 21st century, not in the way of EUR 450 000 or something less, to say that we should be happy. Through such legislation and through serious occupations, where the system is violent, we may have pensions in 2050 if we are still alive. Just like we are going to this House, I'm a little afraid we won't have them. And as long as such matters are not clarified until there are serious answers to these questions that I have listed here, at least some ten more, we feel that the introduction of this kind of control cannot be put into this law at least a little bit. But there are people and experts in Slovenia who are serious about this. There are people or there are people, but, colleague Ludmila, I know very well that she speaks German, which can take Austrian law, which has very detailed the civil and other use of doubts. This is how repressive legislation needs to be debated. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u282	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 7 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation suggested that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 17. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 17. 2. 2017, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Municipal Editorial, a regular procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Joint Left Group will be presented by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. I know you've already got me full of suitcases, but there are themes that I'm covering for us. Those of us who participated in the meeting of the parent working body agreed that after a decade we should regulate this area of municipal directors, to whom we are somewhat too often frustrated, even because we are many, personally not, overly in love with our own cars and we do not like to use public passenger traffic, which in 25 years in the various references of this national assembly we have not or have not arranged properly. I can honestly say that this is probably one of the worst if not the worst-prepared laws in this reference to the National Assembly that came into this temple of democracy if I use that word. We also listened very closely to the union representative of the editors themselves, who somehow pointed to the problems that they were dealing with — from the inadequate education of certain of their superiors to the lack of education. In fact, in general, we did not answer a key substantive question whether those who adopted this legislation at the time were unable to admit that it was the local police or that it was a bit closer to Austrian work. This is also very clear from the very attempt to interpret this law when looking for something comparable. Until we answer this substantive question, moving forward and adopting such a law is essentially unacceptable. We will therefore vote against it. But the vehemence of this coalition, and especially the SMC, is such that it's the most intelligent thing in the universe. Absolutely intruding. We can slowly start messing around with this wall behind the President of the National Assembly. Let's just have a little maturity and it really splintered from the law to stop while it was still time. Because we're going to have a headache for all of us, and most of all these poor rednecks and editors who work for relatively modest wages and what often happens is not the whole of Slovenia Ljubljana. And it is said, "Yes, the civil service, which is one quarter of the company," up and down. Let's slowly start to perceive. Unfortunately, the other Slovenia is increasingly disadvantaged. At the level of dental surgery we said in Maribor now the sixth Slovenia. Let us have so much maturity and vote against such a splinter from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u284	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u285	Thank you for your word. Here I can only agree with France Duck who spoke before me. The law is disastrously ill-prepared, but at the same time I don't know where you're going with this trend. A while ago, a police high school in Tacno was shut down, and today, police officers were given a stun gun. Officials who are not already trained and even opposed themselves will now be given police powers. It is said that at all levels we see that there are competences, competences, qualifications down and, on the other hand, powers and armaments up. What state of repressive organs in this country we're going to get through this, you can imagine. As Member of the United Left, of course, I will vote against it. But I don't understand what you see in these trends is modern for those who are sitting in the Modern Center Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u286	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 37 votes in favour and 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[There was a vote on the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Review of the draft decisions of Members and Members to the debate on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers, Secretaries-General of 14. 2. 2017 is published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Luka Mesec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Mesec on the priority of electricity distribution from the Termoelectrica Šostanj. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. I asked Mr Prime Minister yesterday what the Government is planning to do by giving priority to dispatching, where it is aiming, and if it has really processed all the alternatives. In answer, I got a little bit of a distraction. The Prime Minister replied that the government's alternatives were still being studied. But of course this cannot be true because the proposal has already been put forward by the Government in a public debate. So the government has already agreed, the proposal has already moved on from the government. I don't think we can read this any more than the Prime Minister does. I think we can expect to get a proposal in a short time to pay for the pothole produced by TES, even in the National Assembly. To discuss once again whether there are really no alternatives, I mentioned to the Prime Minister yesterday at least two, one is the second pillar of our electricity economy, namely the profit-generating Gen Energy, unlike HSI, and the other is the deregulation of the prices of oil derivatives, which we lost 60 million euros in the budget. I suggest we discuss these alternatives in the National Assembly. At the same time, I think we need to discuss the energy concept of this country. We have already opened a public debate on this in the United Left last year, and the Minister has ensured that this debate will continue. Now we get past the public debate to continue subsidising the most dirty source of energy, this is coal, on the table, by paying it further through power stations. In view of everything that's been said, I simply don't see anything but that the thing is trying to stop by first agreeing on how and where to proceed with this proposal and in general with the energy concept that we want to follow as a modern country.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u288	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. Look, it's a key dilemma in this country, whether some departments and lobbyers are gonna write laws, and we're gonna be like those doggies who used to nod on the back shelf of a car on sunny days, or whether we're the legislative body. In particular, as long as we don't have a concept, we don't have some kind of energy strategy, because all too long, we have to try to detect this kind of attempt by lobbying, seriously renegotiate in the National Assembly and make decisions because we are the legislator in this country. But I can say beyond what Luka said, finance is not exactly a medium that the United Left would be inclined to do, and I often don't mention it, but today was a very extensive interview in which Mr Mervar, director of Eles, said quite a few possible solutions. He also pointed out when we are talking about interregional differences that it is unacceptable that such prices are in heat between Velenje, if I say so, and Zasavje. We also need to take this seriously in the National Assembly. Otherwise it will happen to us that the Drava power plants Maribor and the Sokska Power Plants and some other victims of such immature policies will be. This is also about jobs, and I can also say that it is about families. I therefore hope that you will support different families, not just those who like one to support this proposal with some serious debate on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u290	We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 18 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Matthew Tonin will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Matthew Tonin in connection with the construction of the second track. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u291	Yesterday, I asked the Prime Minister a very simple question: how much will the second track cost us? And the Prime Minister of the Government said very well that I should not worry that the Government is doing so wisely and accurately. He even went longer! He said that it was not even a matter of this House. I ask you, then who is he? I think the story with TES 6 is repeating itself. Ambassador Dolinšek says it's none of my business. And I'm saying that this is my business and that I want to know how much the second track is going to cost us. In this hall, we must all clearly advocate that the second track is necessary for the development of Luke Koper. No one bothered with that. However, we must not find out in this Chamber what the second track will cost and that some people think it is perfectly normal and that they will probably even vote today that there should be no debate and then five, six years will roll around, maybe the second track will be built, end up being like TER 6 1.4 or 1.5 billion euros, and the answers will be, "We did not know, we were before the facts were carried out and so on." The story with TES 6 is the same. There was no talking about these things, there was no question when, it was necessary, things were going that way, there was no going back, and in the end the price was extremely high. There they went a step further without wanting to tell us what the price would be for TEŠ 6, of course they adjusted it according to current needs. If someone wanted the price to be a billion 200, it was a billion 200, if someone had a third billion 400 and a billion 400. They did everything there just to get the project through. I really can't imagine what is so blasphemous about this issue that this Parliament, which decides on state finances, at least the Prime Minister of the Government has said that this project will also go through a lot of money from the state budget so that it can't be known. Those who will vote against this debate today, then tell me where we can find out or if you know them, let us know.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u292	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? The United Left shall have an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, chairman. My colleague Tonin forgot to mention that Mr Cerar went even further. Mr Cerar has literally said that we are not professional enough to even talk about something so professional. You can go look at the magnetogram. At the same time, he gleaned some experts, who there were quite something that had done some serious comparative analysis of how much this could actually cost in various forms of implementation. Frankly, someone is recently or a third person who has requested the resignation of another person in inside party stories, but I will not deal with it, because I am not a member of this party, but if we are serious about taking the blue centrifuge, after these statements that Mr Cerar made yesterday, Dr. Brglez argued that he cannot answer me that I am abusing the parliamentary procedure, the SMC should demand that Mr Cerar resign and, as President, I am not even interested in the party's president, that is your problem. Why? Because one person who has been legally advising the National Assembly for 20 years is the last person in this country to come to this position that I had to react as much as I did yesterday. This kind of derogation of the National Assembly – you just growl, Trček weighs down again, and Dr. Brglez knows that I am right about this, is unacceptable. Cerar literally said: “You are some ornament, the opposition of the seal, the coalition will raise your hand, and all experts who will not burn like the lobby and I think, but you are just such experts.” You know, the question of the second track is also whether this company is capable of thinking itself complexly and not even such a crazyly difficult project to carry out transparently, with public money, that it will not be if I paraphrase Luka a little, a freight train that will go a little bit to the pennies and a little bit to electricity. We will therefore vote in favour of this debate being held here. But I'm the last person to make decisions, and I'm gonna push these keys if it's already hundreds of thousands of euros, let alone millions, tens, hundreds of millions. I must say, if, in the first third of this mandate, the executive authorities have somehow tried to answer written questions, we opposition colleagues have repeatedly done so, because we cannot do so, the type of answers are now, and I would rather not finish the sentence. I think it's about time we got real and have this debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u294	The explanation of the vote in its own name is given by Jernej Vrtovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u295	The story of the second track seems to be similar to that of TEŠ 6. We're going to get, it looks like, checkers, one more euro we're going to pay for electricity, and nobody is responsible for this because it was a missed investment. We know, and it's not a discussion about whether the second track is needed or not, but the discussion must take place, how we will finance it, and how much it will cost us. That is why we say that the second track can happen to us as TEM 6, a missed investment if we do not do the right thing. Yesterday, the Prime Minister did not know how many millions of euros the second track would cost. Finally, in this House, I would like to hear from the ruling coalition how much the taxpayers will have to contribute money for how valuable this project will be. The Prime Minister didn't come to this meeting yesterday with this information. It seems like we're going to build a house, we have a building permit for it, we don't know if this building permit is going to be the same as it is. We're going to build a house, but we don't know how we're going to finance this house or how much this house is going to cost. This is how the ruling coalition goes about building a second track. And I'm afraid that in ten years' time, the proposal will come back to the National Assembly, the proposal for legislation, the priority of dispatching or what it's called when taxpayers have to contribute over the euro, two because we made some investment without a tavern. That this story should not be repeated solely because this ruling coalition will be the one that will say: “Yes, we planted shovels and started building this important investment for the development of Luka Koper.” Here. This investment is necessary, but with some smart calculations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u296	Mr Matjaž Han has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u297	Thank you, Mr. President. First, the question, and the subject, Matthew, is absolutely relevant, requires some kind of discussion and agreement, but we must not forget this same topic that Janko Weber supported six months ago or a year ago and we had the same debate in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, it didn't do anything after that, and it didn't do anything. I am tired of political debates and Flossules to talk about this second track, when we, at least we know nothing in the coalition. First, how it will be built, under what conditions it will be built. And until one hits the table, the director of Luke Koper, the director of the railways who is ready, and the government and once upon a table, we'll build under such and such conditions and price, and then I'm willing to talk about this topic and control it in some way. For once, Matthew, because you are too few, I will not support this debate, but the debate is relevant and I am ready to sign every extraordinary session when we know what other course we are going to build under what conditions. And one day, we're just gonna go with politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u298	First of all, Mr Zvonko Lah has an explanation of his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u299	Thank you very much, President! It's very nice of you to say that, Matjaž. I think that's exactly why it's necessary to have a debate here so that someone might wake up. I've been following the committee and the politics all along, and I don't know what this second track is going to be. Or this second track for the speed of the train will be 160 kilometers per hour, for freight and passenger traffic. If it's this one and there's a service pipe, then it's a billion 400 and nothing less, and I don't think it's gonna be any less, except more. This is different from TER 6. TEM 6 was at the beginning of 600 and it was worth a billion 400, but now it is a billion 400, and now it can come to 600, if this second track is to be built for what is absolutely necessary, it is for freight traffic, for a speed of 20 miles an hour, which is not yet needed by another tube. If that's it. But it's wrong, I don't know if it is, the minister promised that it would be rationalized, that it would be modified, and I don't know what else, I would believe it if the state didn't have a building permit and wouldn't start with the preparatory work that the Prime Minister said here yesterday. However, if you have a building permit, anyone who has ever built something knows that a project or a house can no longer change, or there will be three floors, two floors, how the roof will be facing if you already have a building permit. Then it's quite clear what this house will be like. I don't know why no one wants to understand legislation that makes it clear when a building permit is issued and how it's built. I think it's quite appropriate to discuss [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u300	Explanation of the vote in its own name mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u301	Ambassador Matjaž Han, I greatly appreciate your honesty. What was said today by Ambassador Han should be shaken by this Parliament. Ambassador Han made it clear and loud that even the coalition does not know what the price of this project will be. One thing. Secondly, the Prime Minister of the Government said yesterday that this investment would happen, which we can draw under the line, that the SMC would obviously support this investment blindly and that it does not even care what the price will be. Either it's pre-electional calculus or it's uh... it's uh... it's pre-election calculus. And as Mr Dolinšek yelled at me during my debate, you don't care. Ambassador Dolinšek, I'm interested. I support the second track, and I want to know how much this second track is going to cost. And that should be of interest to everyone in this house. I also appreciate what Ambassador Weber has done to open this debate. What's our problem? The problem is we're barking, but the caravan's moving on. If this Parliament, if this coalition and the opposition together do not stand on their feet in the sense that we do not know what the price of this project will be, we will not support any guarantee law or any other law that will give funding for this project until then, they will be able to work with us as a fur pig. I think that we must appreciate ourselves so much that we simply demand the answers that go. Public finances in this country are decided by us and cannot be decided blindly. We need to know specific numbers. And this debate might be an additional pressure to do something and then maybe stop writing to the President of the Government the answers, saying that this is a matter that does not concern this House, because it is too professional to make any decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u302	Why don't I ask Member Dolinsky first, an explanation for the vote or something?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u303	[[From the hall]] Explanation of voice! / laugh/
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u304	Explanation of voice. No, no, I'm asking because in this case, Franz Duck has the advantage of calling in earlier. That's why. Okay. Mr Marjan Dolinšek has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u305	Thank you, Madam President. I must tell my respectable colleague Tonin that I understand his concern, but – where were you Mr Tonin years ago? The second track – the story made a move in our mandate. We're gonna start working. Why are you all moving in together? But I'm also saddened by my colleague from our coalition, but I don't know, but maybe he has a bad memory, even years ago, and I think we're on the right track, and it's completely irrelevant and unfortunate to talk like that. I wonder, did you even listen to what happened when you asked us what the answers were? And even a few months ago, when we were turning this stuff around, this second track is so hot that it's probably about to fade. But things are happening, and I don't know what you're trying to do. You obviously don't like something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u306	Procedurally, Mr. Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u307	Thank you very much, President. I've thought so far in ten years that it's an explanation for the voice to say what you think and to say in such a way that everyone understands you, and to say you're in favour or against. That makes sense to me. I have a little memory. I just don't know if they're going to build the Slovenians, the Hungarians, or if they're going to build the Slovenians, the Slovaks are going to build the second track, or whether we're going to build the second track ourselves. That's not the answer I personally and the Social Democrats have. Someone else could have it. In previous governments, much has been done, and even in this government, much has been done to get us to a start so that we can start talking and say that we will build. What kind of money and money we don't know yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u308	As it might have been earlier justified, it was not an explanation, although it is clear in which direction Member Dolinšek spoke, but it is clear that this is also an abuse of procedure to account with other thinkers or to explain its voice, which is not a city either. Does anyone really have an explanation of how he will vote, not controversy? Because there will be a time for controversy, even when marriage will most likely come. Procedurally, Mr. Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u309	President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you do not have to wait until the end if you see that the rules of procedure are being misused until disability. He was abused by his colleague Tonin, who has been abused by everyone so far, and by the one who proposed procedurally and explained that in ten years he thought this was an explanation for the vote, he misused the procedure so that he could actually argue again. The President has every right to simply point out in the middle that this is not an explanation at all, but it is a question of polarising and naming the names of Members who are unable to debate at all, and this is now a debate. We all know that. Therefore, the President, we have rules of procedure to respect him. And you're the only one who can explain it, and not least not only do you explain it, but you decide. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, decide and end this, because it is not all nothing. If there's no explanation, there isn't, and we don't have to wait until the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u310	There's still an explanation. Please sign up. The explanation of vote in its own name is given by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. I guess Matjaz and I weren't made by the same postman, but he was explaining voices in a similar way. We have this freedom. From everything I've said, I am even more in favour of supporting this debate. But I also agree with what has been said — which people must sit together first, whom we must invite. Sometimes I have a feeling because I am doing a lot of parliamentary diplomacy, that this is more of a matter of interest to some other parliaments than to the Slovenian Parliament. I spoke with the Russians with all of the above, including the Chinese, even with someone else, and they're kind of amazed at ours, I'll say, half the ability. I am also surprised that one part of the coalition seems to know a lot less about this than I do, but it was supported by the establishment of a company, some millions to go to that company. When I ask this as an opposition member, I get the answers of the "what are you trying to do" type, so that I don't use any worse word. I could say a little jokingly that obviously those who don't want a serious debate on this, we all know, and Jani can also teach those who don't know that they can also meet to lock up for the public if they are such information that we really need. It is obvious that someone obviously does not want this debate to take place in the National Assembly. I'm gonna end up like this. Maybe someone in a joke isn't going to run for the next election anymore, and he doesn't care what happens to it and who gets a headache. But Mr. Gorenak is the only one who says he's going to retirement, and he hasn't answered. If I make a serious conclusion, I think, according to everything I've said, even partial abuse of the subject is a serious topic. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u312	Mrs Ludmila Novak has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u313	I am very pleased with any progress in the construction of the second track. But at the same time, we all find that we have very little data on how much it's going to cost, how we're going to build it, and so on. I remember very well the discussions a few years ago, even the protests of a Minister of Economy when the construction of TES began. That's when we always got it, but now it's already started, and now we can't stop. And that kept going. Even a few years ago, Nova Slovenije was the only one against TES or guarantee because the investment was too extensive. Even here at the second track, we are simply concerned that the story will not repeat itself. We Members are here to decide many things, so we must have comprehensive information. Such a discussion, where the government would be forced to provide us with as much information as possible, would be welcome for our decision. And that's the purpose. Not that we are in New Slovenia against the construction of the second track, we need it, of course we need it, but we also require clear information how, when, with how much money and so on, we will not get a headache later, but when we get something else on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u314	Mrs Iva Dimic has an explanation of her own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u315	I also thank you, of course, I acknowledge all the efforts of the SMC to build a second track, because no matter what the pressures of the past were, and what they were, with your minister, I think there is no other way than for you to choose more decisively to support the second track. It is right that the second track is, of course, the development of Slovenia. But see if any economist, Slovenian economist Jože P. Damian says that according to his estimates and calculations, the project costs 680 million, and if we have information on the other hand that this project will cost one billion 200, it is said that there are 400 million differences, of course we are interested in this financial cut, what is this 400 million difference or what is in it, which is nowhere else taken into account. These are the facts. What that 400 million surplus represents, and if that's enough, who goes to build a house today and says, "I'll make a house without first looking at how much money he has and what kind of house he's going to be." [[…]] I can't imagine. You don't even go buy a car on credit if you don't know whether you can have a loan or not. No one else will pay for it. I think here to say, we're in the SMC, you've done nothing I think we're all here together, I've never heard of anyone who's against another team, we're all supporting you in this construction, but put papers on the table, what and how the specifics, what jobs will be, what will it cost. [[…]] The difference of 400 million is really a little too big between two calculations. But that's not what my colleague Han said. It is true that it is necessary to ask whether it is still true that the second track will be used to build Hungarians and they want to have one ownership stake in Luka Koper. I think it needs to be said whether it's true or not, whether we're going to agree to it or not. We don't have that, and we're gonna make that decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u316	It's obviously still an interest, so please apply for an explanation. Violeta Tomić has an explanation in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u317	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support this proposal and I will vote in favour, because my colleague Tonin has obviously opened one of Pandora's boxes. We all wonder what's wrong with the second track and the answers we don't get. Despite the arrogance of the President of the Government, and I must say that this debate is somehow symptomatic of this entire mandate. We always find the opposition knocking on closed doors, wanting answers to relevant questions, while members of the Modern Centre are knocking because they don't care. With their arrogant majority, as I have repeatedly called it, they will press the button, as the boss said, they will not wonder how much it will cost, in what combination the second track will build, what this will mean for our budget, and how we may then have to have some parliamentary investigative commissions as we have today for TES 6. It is likely that this party will not be in Parliament for a long time, nor is it possible on the map. And the citizens will pay. Paying the euro or more for missed investments. And it's precisely because of these things that we think we have the right to ask. And it is at least inappropriate for you to look at us uglyly if we want to talk about things that we will jointly decide here in Parliament so that we can make responsible decisions as well. Except of course, and so it is usually that you do not need our votes and you do not need our opinion and you do not care what it is. But unfortunately, we're all on the same boat, and the citizens will pay dearly for it. And don't make me repeat the parable of putting my head in the sand when you got your ass out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u318	There are still explanations for the voice. Please sign up. Mrs Vojka Shergan has an explanation for the vote on her own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u319	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this because the financial structure is slowly closing and because the government is working intensively to build a second track. I believe it myself, so I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u320	Mr Igor Zorčič has an explanation of vote on his own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u321	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! What you're doing right now, I think it's all a bluff. We have talked about the second track many times on the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space. This project is also discussed outside this building, and is discussed in various forums. You yourself said that civil society and various experts were talking about it. And I don't know the case that any of you would come to any of these forums where they have information about the construction of the second track, they're valued and somehow determined to the very value of the second track. You said they estimated it to be cheaper than the government estimates. Yeah, I suggest you ask them why they'll be cheaper. I don't want to go down now into whether it's going to cost the second track that much and that much. I also do not want to relativize this topic, which is very important, but I would like to say that it seems to me that it is entirely for the purpose of some self-promotion to explain here how you will speak in the National Assembly, whether the thickness of the tunnels is appropriate or not, whether the quality of the iron should be such or such as the carrying capacity of the particular track. This was said to be technical issues that are being discussed in some other forums. As far as deciding on some financial consequences of the second track is concerned, I believe that when the matter comes to the National Assembly, we will all be able to talk about it competently. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u322	Procedural. But this will be another abuse of procedural debate. It will be. If it does, I'll stop at a time when it won't be procedural. She's got a procedural word, dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u323	Look, Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Milan Brglez, I've been listening to insults from opposition members for three years now, including my minority. If anyone, Mr, who had previously advertised, who is the chairman of the Committee, and I am his opposition Vice-President, would never, in accordance with the rules of procedure, take me into account, even though it is in the Rules of Procedure that the Vice-President helps to lead and advise, up and down, should have provided all that Mr Tonin now requires. My procedural proposal is to stop the mockery of the opposition Members and Members of this National Assembly, which you are also making largely possible. I'll admit I'm reacting back in ping-pong, too. I'm not a person who's basically sorry, but if someone kicks me into pubic areas, metaphorically, they'll get me back. And it seems to me that we have something smarter to do here than to go out with a ping-pong like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u324	I agree that we have something smarter to do than we actually have here to play out procedural options for a debate that is not yet debated. In addition, we all know that the law that we have to adopt will be waiting for us, and then all options for discussion and all matters will have to be on the table. For this reason, I really ask that you all stop pretending together and vote on this matter, as we must vote on it. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenke Bratušek related to the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, d. d. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 46. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice of Magi. Goran Klemenčič asked Dr Vinko Gorenak about the suspicion of a crime of abuse of an official position suspected by the Attorney General and the former Minister of Justice. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 11 votes against 50. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ljub Žnidar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Mr Ljub Žnidar's question concerning the registration of plant protection products was addressed to Mr Žnidar. Mr Ljubo Žnidar has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Chairman. I asked Minister Dejan Židan about the registration of plant protection products in the Republic of Slovenia, because users have major problems. Certain starches in the Republic of Slovenia cannot be obtained on the market, certain plant protection products, when needed at that time, need to be authorised to import. We know that under different weather conditions this needs to be done very quickly and therefore problems arise. Despite the fact that the Regulation already introduces an amended method of registration in 2009, namely the zone registration which is not bound to the national borders of the countries, Slovenia belongs to the B zone where Slovenia, Austria, Germany, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic have not yet made any mutual zone registration between the Member States in that zone, Slovenia has not yet made any mutual zone registration in this Regulation. Producers of plant protection products do not decide to register in Slovenia because it is actually a small market because we know that new protections must always be introduced and this is too expensive for manufacturers themselves. As a result, these plant protection products in the Republic of Slovenia are also significantly more expensive than abroad. In certain cases, it is also possible to obtain them four times cheaper abroad. So there's a possibility. Despite this possibility, the Ministry has not taken a single step. It's a broader problem in agriculture. These plant protection products could be significantly cheaper, and I believe that a public debate is needed to address this problem, so that Slovenian agriculture will actually help to make it more competitive, as we know that Slovenia imports for a billion euros [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u326	An explanation of vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats have Zvonko Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I would just like to add that this is a really big problem, as my colleague Žnidar pointed out, that glyphosates that can be used again are three times more expensive for us than abroad, and many other preparations, and that is because we need to register for small quantities. And then there are excuses for making these products so expensive. Then they interfere with our farmers, because farming is already uncompetitive in comparison with some other countries, but they have even more expensive preparations or sprinkles, or I don't know what else, they also have fertilizers. Then they are also affected by preparations that are not allowed or allowed in this zone, both in southern countries and in Italy, and then by problems such as the beekeepers of last year who were victims of this system. Nobody wants to listen. Because if we are a small market, if use is allowed in the European Union in all countries, why we have to register in particular, and it takes several years. At this time, our farmers are in an unequal position. Why don't we make a decision? There are probably some lobbyists here who deserve something to be smart about, even though this has been tested for several years in other countries of the European Union. European legislation is above our legislation. But no, we have to be smarter. That is why I will support this debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u328	You're all going to support it together because it's a parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 48. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mate T. Vatovac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Mrak to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovec on pensioners who received part of the remuneration in the form of shares. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 44. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On Mr Zvonk Lah's question on the invitation to tender for grants for co-financing from the Sub-measure Support for investments in agricultural economies. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 46. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Anton Persak, Minister of Culture, to the question of Mr Violet Tomić's question on NLB-owned works of art. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors The United Left shall be given by Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u329	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I asked the Minister of Culture the following question. The Ljubljana Bank and later the Nova Ljubljanska Bank have spent quite a lot of money and considerable money on the purchase of works of art in recent years, and have thus accumulated an enviable collection of art, which some experts believe is invaluable. Now we know that NLB is selling, closed down quite a few businesses. According to my information, these priceless works of art are somewhere along the corners undetected, ignored. I would ask you to support me in protecting the public interest, to grant these works some kind of special status, to surrender to a museum, to protect our cultural heritage, to protect our property. In short, let's support the public interest here. If the bank is already being sold, these works of art, which are, as it were said, priceless values, should remain owned by citizens and should also have the opportunity for future generations to see them in a suitable institution. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u330	You are voting in favour of your parliamentary group. We are at the point of explanation of the votes of the parliamentary groups or on our own behalf. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Ambassador Susane Leup Šimenko, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšić, and Minister of Health of Milojka Kolar Celarc, to the question of Mr Suzanne Leup Šimenko on the placement and impact of high energy transmission lines. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 46. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Mark Pogačnik will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Matthew Vraničar Erman on the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the question of the We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 11 votes against 46. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. Mr Lilliana Kozlovič and Ms Andreja Katič's Minister of Defence on the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak's delegation regarding the use of the falcon government aircraft on 28. 1. 2017. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u331	Thank you very much. We will, of course, support this proposal. I am also counting on the support of some more reasonable work in this hall. Yeah, let's do it in a row. On January 28, Mr Cerar went on a trip to Paris. That's where he sees the handball game and comes back. It's okay if I pay for the flight on my own. However, it is highly controversial because this is a simple trip that the Secretary-General has designated as a work visit. A working visit abroad invited by the Handball Association of Slovenia will not be believed. He takes the minister with him and brings along, well, two guards, and a pierre of the minister and the pierre of the office of the Cabinet of Prime Minister of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the crime has all the signs of the crime, only enough evidence has to be gathered. I'll do my best, so you'll know. This time, I suggest we discuss this. You all know, those who have ever been in the government or near the government, how this is done, whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the President's Cabinet prepares a proposal, the starting points are accepted in the Government, where a delegation is confirmed, who can go, who can go and go abroad. None of this was done. The Secretary-General referred to a decision of the Government, you will not believe, one year old, from July 2016. It's kind of a government decision that gentlemen went on a trip. This decision of the Government will still have to be obtained. Relatively correct was the reply of the Minister of Defence, who listed all the officials who can drive this aircraft, from the president of the state who has used it once, and even more so at the wishes of Mr Türk, former President, to the President of the National Assembly, who does not know whether he is using it or not, I have not heard it before, until the lowest rank, which is the Minister. We may wonder what six civil servants, the pianists of the Minister of Higher Education and the cabinet of the President of the Government were doing on board. In short, it was a complete abuse of the plane for a private trip to Paris. I therefore call on you to support the debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u332	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u333	Thank you for your word. I have a recommendation here that we should refrain from doing this, but given the fact that I have heard that there are insinuations that Prime Minister Cerar and his team flew to the handball game in France with a government plane, which I find most unseemly, politely said. I, too, and I believe that our entire parliamentary group will support this discussion and see what is on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u334	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matjaž Hanžka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mrs Irena Majcen, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mags. On the question of the delegation of Mr Matjaž Hanžka concerning the Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the Third Development Axis at Velenje – Šentrupert, AC1 connection. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 16 votes against 45. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Andrej Couch's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to Mr Andrej Couch's question on the far-reaching of the Cirkovce-Pince. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Mesca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc to the mobile unit of the reanimo in the Emergency Centre of Trbovlje. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors shall be given by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u335	Thank you. I'd like to have your attention for a minute. I asked the Minister of Health yesterday about the mobile unit reanimobile. Reanimobile is this type of ambulance, where we also have two paramedics present to solve emergencies on the ground. These are usually strokes, major accidents and so on. All emergency centres in Slovenia have reanimobile, with the exception of two, and these are trebwell and birch. With this, the inhabitants of Zasavje and the inhabitants of Posavje do not have access to the same health care, to the same care on the ground as the rest of the population in Slovenia. Since I have not received any commitments from the Minister or at least a promise that this will be settled, I suggest that we discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-02-14-SDZ7-Redna-27.ana.u336	You are proposing this on behalf of the Group of Members, so you are all in favour of this proposal in your Group of Members. Let's get used to what the explanations of voice are. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. and I hope that you will get some sleep by then.
