ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Ljudmila Novak from 19:00 onwards, Andreja Potočnik until 12 noon, Aleksander Kavčič, Vinko Gorenak, Danilo Anton Ranc until 10.30, Jožef Horvat from 15:00 onwards, Matthew Tonin from 3 p.m. and Bojan Dobovšek until 11 p.m. and from 16.30 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 38. POSITION OF THE DAY-TERM, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON AGREEMENT TO THE WORK PROGRAMME AND THE FINANCIAL PLAN OF THE ENERGY AGENCY FOR THE YEAR 2018 In accordance with Article 399(5) of the Energy Act, the Energy Agency submitted the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2018 to the National Assembly. In order to further explain the programme, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer to the Director of the Energy Agency mag. Bugs of the Year. Here you go, mag. Honey Year, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Thank you for your word. During the period of establishment of the common European electricity and natural gas market, there have been many changes in other areas that have a significant impact on the energy market. Most important of all, it certainly is the realization that human activities make our environment unrestrained. Emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, largely due to the use of energy in transport and the production of electricity from fossil fuels, are causing climate changes that need to be stopped if our environment is to be preserved for our craftsmen. As a result of this awareness, climate and energy agreements are at the highest political level and the objectives set by the European Union by 2020 and are even more optimistic by 2030. All of this is reflected in the increased use of renewable resources gradually replacing classical fossil fuels, increased energy efficiency and increasingly difficult final customers, who are also becoming manufacturers, some even self-sustaining. This development and objectives also represent important starting points and challenges for the Energy Agency, which is also reflected in the work programme for 2018. The Energy Agency, which is the national regulatory authority, in the electricity and natural gas market, with its competences, has an impact on the development of safe, reliable and efficient systems for the transmission and distribution of electricity and natural gas, taking into account the energy policy objectives resulting from the current and expected conditions to seek benefits for all energy market participants, with the customer at the forefront. The customer is the one who needs energy and the energy transmission network, while at the same time the characteristics of the customers affect the network developed by the operators. The Energy Agency has also prepared a work programme and a financial plan for 2018 with a great deal of responsibility to all energy stakeholders, respecting the legal bases and tasks arising from other binding documents and the objective of carrying out our tasks in a qualitative and cost-effective manner. The responsibilities and the related tasks of the Energy Agency are very extensive, so I will present those that most importantly mark 2018. At the end of 2018, a three-year regulatory period shall expire for the transmission and distribution system operators of both electricity and natural gas. Therefore, in 2018, the Agency will carry out all the necessary activities as a top priority to determine the eligible costs of operators, establish a system of incentives to achieve greater cost-effectiveness and introduce new technologies and, accordingly, develop tariffs for use in networks paid by end-users of electricity and natural gas, which will apply for the period 2019-2021. In carrying out our tasks, we will consistently take into account the fundamental principle of equal treatment of all market participants and ensure such development of networks that will follow the objectives of national energy policy while at the same time providing customers with reliable and affordable electricity and natural gas supply. In addition to the Agency's widest and most fundamental tasks, we will also carry out all other statutory tasks in the field of energy market surveillance and monitoring, market manipulation control, customer rights protection and business monitoring and the establishment of baseline prices for heat supply companies with a high level of responsibility and effectiveness. Also in 2018, we will launch a public tender to promote electricity production from renewable sources and exercise effective control over the holders of declarations and recipients of state aid. In line with available human resources, we will also be active in the field of international activities which represent the interests of Slovenia and the objectives of national energy policy. The Agency as an independent energy regulator is not a user of budgetary resources but is financed by the annual compensation of the system operator of electricity and the natural gas transmission system operator. All revenue planned for 2018 relates to the implementation of the Agency’s public service, with no additional employment planned and the planned value of both refunds remains the same as set out in the work balance and the financial plan for 2017. In view of all the above, I propose that the National Assembly approve the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	The work programme and the financial plan were considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the parent working body, which proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a decision on consent to the Programme of Work and to the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2018. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Igor Zorčič, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues, colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 34th meeting, on 2. 11. 2017 as the parent working body considered the Agency’s Programme of Work and Financial Plan for Energy for 2018, which was 27. 9. 2017 The Energy Agency transmitted to the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 399(5) of the Energy Act. The Agency’s Director of the Agency, Mrs Duška Year, gave an introductory explanation of the proposed document and the main emphasis on the operation or tasks of the Agency. It pointed out that for the Agency in 2018, the main work will focus on establishing a regulatory framework and a tariff item for networks for the new regulatory period 2019-2021. In doing so, the Agency carried out an intensive review of more than 20 undertakings involved in the transmission or distribution of electricity and natural gas and, on the basis of past business and planned costs and investments, set a new regulatory period. The implementation of the renewable electricity support scheme was also highlighted as a priority, and in 2018 two calls for the entry of renewable electricity-producing plants will be envisaged and the existing support recipients will also be monitored intensively. In the area of market manipulation and market abuse control, the Agency will carry out market confidence investigations in Remit into all market transactions on the energy market and will monitor the functioning of enterprises in the field of heat supply and, if necessary, review and agree on the starting prices. With regard to the Staff Plan, it explained that the Agency does not provide for additional new jobs in 2018, which is in line with the June 2017 update of the Staff Plan. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development explained that the Commission supports the Agency's work programme and financial plan for 2018 and has no comments on the proposed financial plan. In a short discussion, the opinion was expressed that the proposed document was structured transparently and projectically, and it was also recommended that the Agency pay further attention to renewable energy projects and annual state of energy reports in Slovenia on the basis of an assessment of the state of play, and also to draft legislative amendments to optimise the state of energy situation and situation. The Committee then voted after the discussion and adopted the following decision: The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy for 2018 of 26. 9. 2017.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we still believe that the work programme and the Agency's financial plan should be endorsed by the Government, not by Members, as it is a matter for the majority to be very poorly aware of all the tasks entrusted to it by the wide-ranging Energy Act. The Agency is a national energy regulator in the field of economic regulation, network operation, market surveillance and monitoring, in the area of heat and district heating price regulation, in promoting renewable electricity production, in short, it is an extremely wide area. This time, the operational work programme for 2018 shows more detailed descriptions of the tasks outlined, which are presented in a more transparent way, showing priorities, legal bases, state, objectives and effects, human resources and risks in the performance of individual tasks. This year's rebalancing, which was confirmed in June, complements the staffing plan, where 63 employees are planned, and does not change in 2018. The financial plan is also the source of this year's rebalancing with the annual compensation of the system operator, namely Eles, and the transmission system operator of Plinovo and does not increase at the monthly base of revenue in 2018. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Work Programme and the Agency's Financial Plan for Energy for 2018.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Energy efficiency, self-sustainment in the energy market and, above all, its rational use are, as has already been pointed out, the key challenges of our future, especially in view of the fact that, without energy, especially electricity, in the future, there will be no important development concepts that our society has decided on, whether it is smart cities, electrified automotive networks or any other developmental important story. It is therefore crucial that the Energy Agency does its work well and in particular independently of everyday policy, despite the fact that we must critically stress this, and that the absence of a comprehensive national energy policy in the form of an energy concept of Slovenia continues to be a good and, above all, independent of day-to-day policy, and is committed to strategic orientations, not only on the basis of the question of how to protect its own energy industry, but also how to follow global trends mainly in the protection of the environment and the long-term provision of sustainable energy supply. Therefore, the key issues that lie ahead of us, as well as in the coming years, are the Agency, for example, the question of what will be the price that will be paid by users for transmission networks, and the related development of these networks can be ensured. Basic logic seems simple – the lower the price for the network, the more satisfied users. At the same time, however, we need to ask ourselves what this means to establish a system of charging electric cars on our road network, what this means for the country's interest after the establishment of heat pumps and the smart use of thermal energy, and for many other issues that are related exactly to how effective and how developmental quality will also be set up by our transmission network. The next important thing the Agency is dealing with and where it is particularly important to act as an independent and, above all, a quality professional body, is to control market manipulation. Although we are a relatively small market, we have also witnessed a number of questionable rises or discounts in both the price of heat and the production of electricity or heat. It is therefore crucial that the Agency continues to pursue transparency and fairness in particular and that its decisions, models of calculations and models of consent to raise or reduce the price of heat, for example, does not give in documents of a closed nature, but reveals that the latter will be fair for all citizens and citizens and that, in particular, it will be fair for all territories within the Republic of Slovenia to realize the constitutional principle of equality of regions and local self-government. Therefore, allow me to conclude by saying in the opening presentation that the Agency is following national energy policies, to express the wish that we will reach these renewed policies in this mandate, because, contrary to the approved annual work plan, which we will not, of course, oppose, we are without the basic framework for the work of this agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable Director of the Agency, colleagues and colleagues! The recent amendments to the Energy Act have defined the Agency as an independent regulatory agency for energy, which is no longer defined as a public agency and where the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia exercises its constitutional rights. The Energy Agency, as the regulatory authority, monitors, directs and supervises energy operators in the field of electricity and natural gas and carries out statutory tasks, regulation of energy operators in the field of heat and other energy gases. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 399 of the Energy Law, the Council of the Energy Agency shall have a power supply of up to 30. The Agency's work programme and financial plan for the coming year shall be adopted on the 9th year and the Agency's work programme and financial plan shall be agreed upon by the National Assembly. The Director of the Energy Agency, Mrs Duška Year, explained at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space that their basic lead in the preparation of the work programme was to ensure effective control of the functioning of the electricity and natural gas market, to ensure cost-effective development of secure and reliable electricity and natural gas transmission and distribution networks, to regulate heat supply and to achieve the country's energy policy objectives. It stressed that the last year of the current regulatory period would expire in 2018 and that the main part of the Agency would therefore be focused on establishing a regulatory framework and a tariff item of networks for the new regulatory period 2019-2021. In doing so, the Agency will carry out an intensive review of companies involved in the transmission or distribution of electricity and natural gas and, on the basis of past operations and planned costs and investments, set a new regulatory period. The support scheme will continue to be implemented. There are two calls for the entry of renewable energy-producing devices. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we believe that the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2017 has been set up ambitiously and that the Agency is carefully planning financial resources for the performance of its tasks, so we will support the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Energy Agency for 2018, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 39th item of the agenda or no later than 16.55. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is an evocative proposal to initiate the procedure for supplementing the constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. The draft act was tabled by a group of 26 Members and Members with Mr Matjaz Han, first signed. In order to further explain the draft act, I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenian public school is a good school. I hope we all agree. We have a good network of public schools, although it's not exactly ideal, but it is. In the language that neoliberals understand, our school is a competitive school in the wider international context. The quality aspect is recognised by many international indicators and organisations and Slovenian schoolchildren place above average. We have a painful experience in our society in another segment, this is health because we have competitive health because we have good health, but sometimes for people who do not have money, it is not affordable and especially expensive. We are quickly joining the third anniversary when we prepared the text of the amendment to Article 57 of the Constitution and then sent it to the legislative procedure with the co-thinkers from Desus, Left and Alenka Bratušek. The main objective of our proposal is for everyone in the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their initial position or the position of his family, to ensure access to quality, autonomous education, and if you also want a world-class, neutral primary education. This proposal also eliminates the confusion reflected in the different opinions of the Constitutional Court or the extent to which private education should be financed through public funds. We have repeatedly highlighted the second position of the Constitutional Court, which, in my view, is also diametrically opposed to the views of the Constitutional Court, which was not substantively substantiated, and in such a radical direction, I think this would be absolutely necessary. However, it is also not insignificant, respected and respected, that this time the Constitutional Court has left the legislator alone, even if we are going to change the Constitution. Members and Members of the National Assembly therefore have not only the right but also the duty to maintain quality public education. From this city, as the first to sign, I am pleased that the knowledge of the importance of public education has increased over the past three years. It has strengthened to this extent that there is hope for wider support for the supplementation, which would define the primary public financial care of the State for public school as a particularly important standard set out in the highest act in the Republic of Slovenia, which is in the constitution. During this period a number of views and warnings were given to the public regarding the text of the Constitutional Supplement. We have never insisted on excluding different opinions. We have also never insisted that the original record we wrote in the original text should not be amended. Together with others, we have sincerely advocated the drafting of such a text, which will be particularly acceptable to the wider community and will be very consistent with the social democratic foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This readiness, ladies and gentlemen, is also expressed now, because we believe that the issue of public education is so important that possible prestigious fighting on this side or on that side is not appropriate. The parties who oppose our proposal tell us an ideological motive, but I am stressing that we are not all guided by an ideological motive, but, above all, we are led by an ideal motive, and this ideal motive, my dears, is a social state. A social state that comes out of people's needs and takes care of these people in the best possible way. The decision for public school is a decision for the future of the country. I hope we all agree on this together. This decision can and must be taken by the National Assembly as an autonomous institution which must be and is immune to the various interests expressed by representatives of socially more influential groups over the past days at various levels. In conclusion, all I want to say is that we have a good public school in Slovenia and that it should remain so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The draft act was considered by the Constitutional Commission as the parent working body. In order to present the report to the Commission, I give the floor to the President, Dr Milan Brglez.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I will try to summarize the report of the Constitutional Commission briefly. Formal part first. The Constitutional Commission has considered a motion for the initiation of a procedure to supplement Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia at its second meeting. In accordance with the constitutional audit procedure and the parliamentary practice so far, the rapporteur, Matjaž Han, first presented the constitutional audit proposal at the meeting of 7. 5. 2015 Members of the Constitutional Commission held a first round of views on the proposed constitutional audit procedure. The debate continued at the first meeting of the 2nd session. 6. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with practice, the members of the Constitutional Commission, secondly, set up the Section for the Financing of Primary Education, in which they named Dina Bauk, Dr. Franc Grad, Dr. Zdenka Kodelje, Dr. Rajko Pirnat, mag. Majdo Potrate, Dr. Magdalena Smuggler and Dr. Ivan Štuhc. The expert group is 14. 1. 2016 drew up an opinion setting out the position of its members. The opinion, which is fully summarised in the report of the Constitutional Commission, gives rise to the professional separation of members up to the proposed content of Article 57 of the Constitution. At the end of the opinion, members of the section with the support of most members proposed to the Constitutional Commission not to adopt a decision initiating the procedure for the amendment of the Constitution in question. At the same time, with the support of the other majority of votes, they proposed that the Constitutional Commission examine the possibility of amending the Constitution and complementing it by establishing a rule whereby a private school should be financed from public funds only when it is not possible to provide primary education through public school. Accordingly, the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution would be amended and supplemented by the following: “Basic education is compulsory and financed from public funds to the extent that primary education is provided to everyone.” The Constitutional Commission continued its debate on whether or not to initiate the constitutional audit procedure. It was attended by the proposer and the members of Section 10. 3. 2016 and 5. Ten. 2017, when interested public are also involved in the debate and within it Dr. Peter Gregorič. This is the part that matters now. Since the expert commission had already offered to continue the debate on the draft constitutional law tabled by the draft constitutional audit proposal, the proposal for a possible position to seek a solution from some kind of path of position was the wish of the proposer and me, as President of the Constitutional Commission, to move the Constitutional Commission from a dead point of view. Thus, in the informal discussions prior to the last continuation of the second meeting, I sent the expert group and the members of the Constitutional Commission a proposal for a possible position amending Article 57 of the Constitution. In the search for truly optimal solutions we upgraded the latter and submitted the new text to the bench just before the session was scheduled to begin. After a brief discussion, the Constitutional Commission moved to a decision and, with the necessary two-thirds majority of the members present, adopted a proposal for a constitutional audit procedure for today's decision. Therefore, the Constitutional Commission proposes to adopt the following decision after the conclusion of the debate: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt a proposal from the Group of Members and Members of Parliament of 18. 2. 2015 to initiate the procedure for supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Commission then moved to the consideration of the draft constitutional law submitted and, with the necessary two-thirds majority of the members present, adopted a proposal for a position on the draft constitutional law and, therefore, the Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly that, in view of the last amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly by a two-thirds majority of the Members present and Members of the National Assembly, and not, as was the case in the report, it adopts, by a majority of the votes of all Members, the following position on the draft constitutional law. First time. In the first section of the draft constitutional law, the proposed addition to the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution should be regulated in such a way as to amend the whole of Article 57, in order to ensure that education is free, that primary education is compulsory, that the State creates opportunities for citizens to receive adequate education, that public funding can be provided through public funds and that, under the conditions and in the manner laid down in the law, compulsory primary education in private schools can be co-financed by public funding. Another time. In the implementing part of the draft constitutional law, i.e. the second section, the three-month timeframe for the harmonisation of laws governing the financing of education and education should be laid down. I've run out of time to present arguments for and against, but I think you'll all get them anyway, so unfortunately I can't do that here. However, I would like to thank, as President of the Constitutional Commission, all those who participated in this first stage of the constitutional audit procedure. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Primož Hainz is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to inform you of the position of the Desus Group on the Proposal for the initiation of a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. The Desus Group is a co-signatory of the Proposal for the initiation of a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. We started the procedure in the National Assembly on 16 January 2015, until today almost nothing happened. Although the Constitutional Commission has been convened several times, to a large extent nothing has happened on it in terms of conclusions. More than once, she was delayed. After almost three years of postponement of the proposal, we are deciding what will happen to Article 57 of the Constitution, which is the title of Education and Education. Will we today gather the required number of votes so that we can even talk about the new text? In our parliamentary group, we strongly want and believe that this will happen if not because of anything else, but because of the adoption of the amendment to the Education and Education Financing Act, which has been proposed to complement individual parliamentary groups in very different ways, trying to regulate the financing of private education in primary schools. In the Desus Group, we have a unified view that the Constitution in this part needs to be supplemented. Some opponents of this procedure believe that we are trying to bypass the last constitutional decision and amend the Constitution. Members and Members of Parliament, of course, do not view this as such. We want the Constitution to be perfectly clear, unequivocal. The present record of Article 57 provides for a different interpretation of the content. The latter has proved to be a major problem for us in the Court of Justice's two conflicting decisions on the same matter, and this is a major problem for us in Desus, because, according to our assessment, the issue of legal certainty and thus the principle of confidence in law has been raised. Notwithstanding the fact that, in the interim period between one and the other decisions of the Constitutional Court, social circumstances have changed, thirteen years have passed, and we cannot imagine trust in the guardian of the Constitution in such a way as to disregard its own previous views, including all other views, including all other views, doctrines, standards and so on, all of which must be inseparable and an integral part of the constitutional decision. There is no doubt, therefore, that Members and Members of Desus agree that the Constitution must be supplemented, even though the opinion of some members on the expert committee entrusted to it by the Constitutional Commission is negative or close to negative. In fact, this expert opinion is not even explicitly negative, as members also offered an option of complementarity with their proposal. This has shown that it cannot gather enough political support, according to our assessment, because it is too ambitious. We therefore have before us the content of the position on the draft constitutional law or starting points, which are given as a basis for the drafting of the final text of the Constitution. These starting points are acceptable. According to our understanding and the conviction that we have come to on the basis of the content of the two constitutional decisions, the ones in 2001 and the ones in 2014, we need to draw a clear distinction between what is public and what is private in education. Secondly, it is important for us that the will of the authors of the Constitution and of the then legislator in 1991 to make primary education compulsory for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is clear. As a result of this, it is important that everyone is provided with such a level of education. In our parliamentary group, we do not object to restricting the choice of an educational institution to a public institution only if there are private schools, but we ask ourselves about the extent, content and quality of this level of education, which is prescribed not only by law but also by constitutional obligation. We think it should be the same. So when we draw the line under such thinking, we could conclude with the following: when we talk about the financing of schools, in the context of the last constitutional decision, which states that private primary schools should also be financed from public funds, it would be acceptable for our group to finance them only by funding the most compulsory minimum of basic education, which is uniformly determined by content. Let me mention that, from this point of view, we have also implemented a supplement to the above-mentioned amendment to the Education and Education Financing Act, which is still in the parliamentary procedure. The content of the position on the draft constitutional law before us today, which, we hope, will be the basis for the final dictatorship of Article 57 of the Constitution, follows, in our conviction, the issues that we are advocating in Desus, as a result of which we agree with the text prepared and we will support it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	Thank you, President, for your word. In view of what the applicant has said and what has also been said in the position of the Desus Group that there will be no manipulation or, if you wish, even a lie, I propose that the Sectional Services of the National Assembly give to all Members two rulings of the Constitutional Court, the one in 2001, which refers to the amendments to Article 72, paragraph 3, and the possibility of financing private schools, and the decision of the Constitutional Court in 2014, which wishes to amend the first sentence of Article 86, paragraph 1, which speaks of the financing of private primary schools. Why is this crucial, Mr. President? Under Article 57 of the Constitution, primary schools are compulsory. Those who referred to the 2014 decision had a wish, and the Constitutional Court has also attached them to it – since primary schools are compulsory, the State must finance them. The 2014 decision, which some of you are talking about, is completely different, is clear, and the applicants of that constitutional case wanted all private schools to be financed by the State, and the Constitutional Court then said, no, because only primary schools are compulsory, we cannot accept this concern and amend the Constitution. Therefore, Madam President, in order to avoid manipulation, I propose that the professional services divide the two decisions of the Constitutional Court so that there will be no manipulation in cases as we have heard today, when there is contradiction in the Constitutional Court. No, honourable Members, honourable President, there are two completely different matters. In order to avoid manipulations, I propose that, before the debate of Members and Members, in the initial positions of the Group of Members, all Members should also be divided so that these matters are not brought to light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	I think by the time you warned them, you did what you wanted. Any Member may be the two decisions of the Constitutional Court because they are publicly available at any time. I think at least those who have dealt with it have already had to do it, plus it will be possible to do it in a substantive debate. We have never before distributed such material, which is fully publicly available, and I do not think that we will make any exceptions to it this time, because otherwise such procedural proposals may occur at any time. But I won't say anything about whether it was procedural or not, and it was also an opportunity to debate, to extend what you said to yourself, okay. [[…]] We can move on. Mr Jan Škoberne, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have tried, in line with my colleague's procedural proposal, to adjust my position properly and I hope that I will not make a mistake and that he will be more pleased with our presentation of the position as he was with earlier. If I return to a serious part of the debate, knowledge, not raw materials, social or economic circumstances and other circumstances are the essence of social well-being and equality of access to knowledge is the only real basis for development. Development, of course, is the basis for a state of prosperity, for a standard of living and for the creation of an egalitarian society, a society where decent life is possible for all regardless of what social status people are born into. It is true, however, that we have historically faced two development models when we are talking about implementing access to knowledge in society and the country. On the one hand, knowledge has historically developed as a right under the title of normally privileged social status, and on the other hand, access to quality knowledge as a starting point for the development of career, life and development opportunities of each individual, equally, irrespective of the opportunities afforded to someone by social status either to his parents or to the environment from which it comes, whether it is the availability of access to raw materials or the availability of access to other resources that provide quality knowledge. Therefore, in today's debate, in addition to the legal interpretations that we will be dealing with, the key question is what are the values of this society and, above all, what are our constitutional values and thus the strategic direction of our Republic's operation. One possibility is to understand our future as a republic of egalitarian, translated into today's topic with equal access to quality knowledge, or our republic will be elite, where quality knowledge and access to these related development opportunities will be reserved only for the chosen, those who have done nothing for it, while the others will not blame themselves on their own potential. Therefore, in the vision of the development of the Republic of Slovenia for social democracy, a quality, accessible and wide-ranging public education, which must be organised rationally in order to ensure its and its accessibility in all the geographical, social or economic areas of the Republic of Slovenia. We wish that our education across the entire vertical would be lazily, qualitative and accessible to all. We also believe that, on behalf of equality, we must focus all the resources available to our country on the development of public, quality, highly professional and modern primary education, in a given case. I repeat, therefore, that every euro in the public treasury for private education is a step towards decommissioning equality and the quality of access to knowledge for all, which means, on the basis of endangering development opportunities and deliberately giving up all the opportunities that all our citizens and citizens can take advantage of and develop. If I say an anecdotally, what's it gonna be like to have an ATM if you don't have a school? Of course, this does not mean that we are opposed to private education, far from it. As all responsible political forces, we support the development of private education because we estimate that it performs an important development function, but we support it on the condition that it is financed from a private source. Who in this political spectrum would have found that the times of the obligatory redemption were over. And compulsory financing of private education from public funds is nothing more than a compulsory buy-in, something that, at systemic level, also with the constitution currently in force, we gave up on independence. Regrettably, however, there is no specific unity either in politics or in society, given the different legal interpretations of the Constitutional Court in the related content, nor within the legal profession, which is particularly a major problem, which is why, as the President of the Constitutional Court has said, the legislator's duty to act. To act in a manner that ensures the coherence of the strategic guidelines provided by this assembly and implemented by the elected government by constitutional order. Therefore, we believe that the right way to resolve the dilemma created by the Constitutional Court is not to change the law, but to change the constitution, because it represents a more lasting, stronger and therefore more responsible change, which can be followed by less political turbulence and will be easier and more effective for all stakeholders who build our educational system. In Slovenia, therefore, we need a modern and quality education that will be as good as possible for money and for resources that we can devote to this key development area, to encourage the development of our country for the future. Since we want the Social Democrats to have equal opportunities and opportunities for them to create the most in their lives by their decency, and not that their opportunities depend on their parents' position, we will of course support the change of the Constitution and will continue to strive for an egalitarian republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which it is mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! The Constitutional Court has decided very clearly that the same payment follows the same work. We have two teachers at the Tom Brejca State Primary School and in the private montessori elementary school in Ljubljana who teach both children mathematics as much as one plus one. The Constitutional Court has said nothing but that these two teachers must be paid the same. Applicants with SD at the helm say no. So I wonder where equality is. It is clear that the SD and its co-proposers are thus starting an unusual and cheap political cultural struggle. Today we have 700 state schools and 6 private schools in the country, but they're all public. I hope we understand each other here, 700 nationals and 6 privates, but they are all public, which means that today any of the young people can also be enrolled in a private school. In public schools – even in Kamnik we have built one in the last period – all the costs of building state schools are borne by the state or by the municipality, and in private schools the costs of construction and other infrastructure are borne by individuals who are different. It is essential, however, that today we are talking about schools where public programmes are being taught everywhere, so we are talking about state schools and we are talking about private schools where a public programme is being implemented, which means that we are today talking about those private schools that have been built by private people, but they teach the programme that the country has set up. We therefore believe that the decision of the Constitutional Court is perfectly clear — that the same work is followed by the same payment, that teachers cannot be paid differently depending on whether they are teaching at a school built by a congregation or by a state or at a school built by a private society. Last but not least, it's about equality of children. Why should we distinguish children from those who have to pay for schooling and those who do not need to do so, even though all are taught by the same public program? Now, some of these flowers that clearly show that it's a violent ideological struggle. Tell me how 6 private schools can compromise the quality of 700 state schools. Please, come on! Be at least that honest and say that for those 6 private schools that have been built, the cost of construction and infrastructure has been taken over by a private person and that in these private schools they teach a public programme. The next thing that happens maliciously is that public schools have to be open to everyone because these ugly private schools are elitist schools that only the richest can afford. Look, I have two different graphs ahead of me, one is a graph from the Aloyzi Šustjar Primary School and the other is a graph from the montessori elementary school in Ljubljana, and they talk about the percentage of students who receive free lunches. At Aloyzi Šuštar primary school, 38% of enrolled children receive free lunch, while 54% of enrolled children receive free lunch at the Montessori elementary school in Ljubljana. So much for private schools being for some rich people and for the elite. Certainly this thing, which the proponents claim, is not true. The next major fraud that is taking place is that the Constitutional Court has decided twice on the same case. Don't hold it! Don't hold it. The Constitutional Court has decided different matters. For the first time, the Constitutional Court ruled that teachers or programmes should be paid in full in all private schools, and here the Constitutional Court rightly said no. In the second phase, private schools implementing the public programme were decided, and only primary schools. But here she said yes, and I think it makes sense. If we have a private school on this side that can implement any programme it wants, then the decision of the Constitutional Court is clear that the State does not have to cover the costs. On the other hand, we have private schools built by private people, and we have put a public programme in these private schools, which is the programme that they teach in public schools, which is the same programme that is taught in public schools, and in this case the Constitutional Court has said that equal pay is followed for the same work. The next thing that happens is that these six private schools implementing the public programme will put public education at risk, the other 700 schools. Please, well, we are talking about 300,000 euros a year, 9 billion budgets and more than the country has at its disposal, these are ridiculously low amounts for the state budget, and for an individual it is extremely important because those attending these schools are probably not added to just 50, 60 euros each month. Here, in particular, I would expect more social sensitivity from the Social Democrats and Desus to go against the parents who are now unjustifiably paying this tuition. According to my opinion and also according to the New Slovenia Group, it is a clear cultural struggle for the cheap collection of political points, because 6 private schools simply cannot endanger 700 state schools, these 6 private schools are not some elitist closed schools, but they are public schools where anyone can be enrolled, but of course this topic is extremely useful and useful for expanding the cultural struggle because in these private schools the fight is directed only against two, and it is against those two, one in Ljubljana and one in Maribor, which was established by the church. These two schools, of course, have also resulted in collateral damage to the remaining four private schools, which are also carrying out a public programme, but were established not by the church, but were established by private individuals because of some of their philosophical, different starting points, but these four are collateral damage. The fight is directed at these two, and it is clear that in all the things that will happen in the coming months, there will be an attempt to start a fight between, say, the church and the state. Last but not least, if we look back into the past, back in the past, colleague Alenka Bratušek was also able to join Parliament in the final election campaign with the direct conflict with the church. So if you're looking at things from some perspective like this, it's clear that these kind of political struggles bring benefits to a lot of people, but they're unfair. Dishonest especially to children and to parents who are not treated equally. What you are trying to do today is to vote that a constitutional change procedure will begin, according to the Group's assessment, is unacceptable and unacceptable, because you want inequality, injustice to be legalized, even to be enshrined in the Constitution. In a way, it is a constitutional coup, which we strongly oppose in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	The word is given by the Left Group, for which Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thank you, President. Good-bye, everybody! When Levica entered Parliament three years ago, she came into it with one very clear goal, and that is to give every opportunity to those who are so unvoted, to warn about the injustices and inequalities produced by the capitalist system, and ultimately, most importantly, to actively change society in a way that is fairer, that everyone will have the same opportunities and that no one will live in need. The Left is in Parliament to defend the rights acquired and to improve the lives of all, from workers and farmers to pensioners and students. In fact, we did not expect to be faced with an incomprehensible change of attitude at the beginning of the term, or with the opinion of the Constitutional Court and with the need to re-elect something that was once self-evident. This is the fact that the State provides free compulsory education through public schools and that public education is always ahead of private education. Today we have the opportunity to take some decisive step that would constitute a step towards the defence of public education. The position of the Left towards education is, of course, very clear; education is seen as a fundamental right and intellectual achievement of humanity should be the property of all and, at the same time, should be given to all and allowed to acquire and thus to nominate these intellectual achievements through quality public education. Education must be universally available, and such education can only — and this is our firm position — if it is public funding. Why should public education have such significance? Why do we need to see it as an achievement of extreme social importance? We could point out three aspects. The first is the fact that man is a thinking animal, which is also driven by the desire for knowledge, and public education is the first step that enables the entry and exploration of this boundless world of knowledge. Another aspect could be called democratic. A famous river says knowledge is power. Knowledge must therefore not be a privilege of a handful, accessible and accessible to everyone, purely everyone. Thirdly, public education is, of course, part of the socio-economic system, and public education has two very important tasks in this system. The first is that it enables everyone to be educated and thus allows them the possibility of social mobility, while also laying the foundations for greater social equality. The other thing is that long-term public education from the point of view of the socio-economic system is an important and significant impact on the development orientation of a country. But first look at the long-term consequences of the privatisation of education where this doctrine has come to an extreme where the market plays a major role. There education services are not accessible to all, as this access is limited by property differences. Public funding for private schools as a specific form of public-private partnership allows the co-financing of private interests through the use of public funds. One who owns a private school in one way or another has an additional very partisan interest, whether it is profit, a certain world view or something else. In such cases, a private school may, without prejudice to its student's choice, discriminate against them on the basis of personal circumstances only because it eventually avoids pupils who face the greatest difficulties in the learning process. This is an aspect where private education can threaten public education because today there may be 6, in five years it will be 200, and in the long term it will prevail over public primary education due to higher quality. In the formula of state funding plus tuition, there is a very dangerous trap. A trap that can quickly destroy public education. Fully funded private schools can, through a small contribution, i.e. tuition, achieve higher standard education, leading in the long term to the predominance of private education over public education. Such an education is not universally available, but it is selective. Selectively based on property, which strengthens and increases class division. Let's take a look on the other side. In essence, private schools produce inequality. Why? Because their structure is that way, they create bubbles for their schoolchildren. They create a space composed solely of those coming from similar or similar environments, making it harder for students and students to understand the world beyond this bubble. They find society more difficult to understand than a common space, they do not see the inequalities that exist in society, and as a result they are more difficult to understand in the end because they simply do not know them. And that's where the enormous importance of public education comes from, and that's the importance that public education has for society. As I pointed out at the outset, this is about social mobility and social equality. Only a school in which various social groups who are forced to work together, work together in dialogue, can constitute an area of emancipation. Such a space that will ultimately allow students to perceive themselves as what they really are, and this is just people, everyone with their different abilities, different performances, different intelligence, skills, but, and this is crucial, with the same starting point. Access to quality education is therefore a key aspect in ensuring greater social justice and social equality. The preservation and development of a publicly funded primary school system are thus fundamental. We must by no means allow it, and it is therefore necessary to react now that the neoliberal offensive on the educational system also penetrates the basic level of education and that we are already starting to produce and reproduce social inequality in children. Even so, performance differences are conditioned by class and layered belongings, different cultural capital, that of course we are not talking about financial capital, in childhood it has the privilege of favouring the rich against the poor. The role of public school is to basically equalize these inequalities. On the other hand, the rest of education must strive to make it accessible to all, not to discriminate against certain social groups and to serve as an emancipation of humanity. Such education must be public and must be provided by the State. I think that's the goal we need to change the constitution to achieve. The change in the position of the Constitutional Court constitutes a threat to public education. 100 % of private school funding will soon become absorbed in public funding, and therefore the constitutional record must be very clear. It must, in particular, be clear and unequivocal that only public education is financed from public funds and that public education has an absolute advantage. With this objective, we have also contributed signatures under the proposal to amend the Constitution in Levica, which is why we believe that the amendment of the Constitution is necessary, and that is why we will support the conclusion that this process should also begin. As we have already said on the last Constitutional Commission, the final text of the Constitution can only be supported provided the record is clear and clear that the provision will be written in such a way that it does not allow any other interpretation. The only record that is acceptable to us is therefore one that gives the public an absolute advantage, provides it with public funding and development and provides everyone with access to quality and, above all, free education.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Finally today is day D, so that we will not only talk about public education, but finally show who really cares about public education. After three years, a proposal to amend the Constitution has already been tabled for three years, we have finally come to the moment to make a statement on what is on the table. Yeah, I signed myself under this change of constitution. Why? Because our Constitution states that Slovenia is a social state, our Constitution also states that primary education is compulsory. And because I think that knowledge and health are something that must be accessible to everyone under the same conditions. With health we are already on the wrong track, we will need radical changes to be made available to everyone again, but with knowledge if we fail today, we will also need to make this step available. We do not have a unified opinion in our parliamentary group about the change of constitution, but I can say that colleague Miriam Bon Klanjšček and I will support this change of constitution. If all the parties we talk about public education do indeed think so, then 60 votes, if counted, are today guaranteed. This is a condition that we can start to change the Constitution. It is true that there are currently 700 public public schools and 6 private schools in our country, and it is far from true that accessibility to private schools is the same as in public schools. The number already says that children are admitted to private schools, for whom the school’s management chooses to do so, and every child has a place in public school, including those for whom parents have decided to attend a private school. And that is the fundamental difference between public and private. I also do not have the problem of having private schools exist, that there should be no problem of having children educated in a quality manner, but we cannot in any way require the State to finance both private and public at the same level. Then it is also necessary to even the entry conditions, and we will see how many children can be enrolled in 6 private schools. The hand on the heart, even if we were to equalize it, will not change much in a year, today, tomorrow, in a decade, and in 20 and 30 years, public education would be increasingly low and only children who would not be able to afford quality in private schools would attend public schools. I don't want one of those. It is a totally inappropriate comparison, which, unfortunately, also allowed by the Ombudsman, is a comparison with health care. Completely inappropriate! In healthcare, concessions are granted, which means that the concessionaire performs public service in lieu of the state. Instead of the state. In a private school, parents enter a child because of their decision. This same child has a place in a public school, but his parents have made a different choice for such and different reasons. They have a right, no one restricts them, but they cannot ask us to finance them equally. The constitutional decision does not say that either. The Constitutional Decision simply states that the law must be clearly defined. We just decided to do it in the constitution, to make it clear what and how much. As I have already said, in my opinion, knowledge and health in Slovenia must be accessible to all under the same conditions. In order to ensure this, it must be clearly stated in Article 57 of the Constitution that it is the duty of the State to provide education for every child under the same conditions. However, as we will set out in the law, our children's education in private schools can also be financed. We must never, and never, equalize these two things. One more thing I have to touch is the inadmissible involvement of the church in this process. It's not allowed. The country and the church are separate through our constitution and, however, the change of constitution is in our hands and our responsibility. As I have already said, we have two votes in favour of amending the Constitution in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	Honorable President, colleagues, colleagues! In the SMC Group, we will support the proposal to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as this follows the basic social-liberal premia, where the State provides public school infrastructure and public programmes, and the private initiative is understood as a welcome addition to the school space in the spirit of the plurality of knowledge, which should also be financed primarily from private resources, if not by law consistent with public interest, otherwise regulated. When we talk about public interest, we must bear in mind that any violation of the public network of schools, which, due to past legal intentions and practices based also on the doctrine of Article 57 of the Constitution, wanted to blur the boundary between public and private, meant, above all, a challenge to the fundamental commitments made at the time of enlightenment, when we as a nation were aware of the importance of describing people and the broader context that this description has, in spite of social, religious and other circumstances, to integrate an individual into society, so that we can live together in mutual understanding and respect as a whole, despite the differences that make us rich. Members of the SMC have decided to initiate a constitutional change procedure because social change requires an appropriate response to the sensitive development of the school space, which is not only a knowledge and ideas development field, but also a place of justification for social codes and those moral axes, which at the constitutional level hinder both the level of the social state and, let us not forget, the right to choose freely how an individual wants to live. Let us stress that the urgency of the change of the Constitution and of the sectoral law are in no way infringing on the international commitment, but at least on the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which has also been heard by opponents. From such implementation, we make it public and we understand it as an exclusively ideological politicisation of constitutional matter, which does not want to be supported by objective arguments from both the profession and the majority public, which supports today's act of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	Good-bye to all of you! Today, unfortunately, one of those meetings, which, if Slovenia were a democratic state and were consistently respected by the values that we decided on the plebiscite, once consistently respected, should never have happened. There wouldn't be a session. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, has led the most noble objective in assessing when it weighed constitutional values. He led them to make education in the quality of the work, a private education that is also available to children from poorer families. This is completely contrary to what you have been doing here today and lying to everyone in a row. What a shame! Run away from the Constitutional Court's judgment, which wanted to allow children from poorer families to have the most quality education possible because you want to privatize it for your children. Elitism of the worst kind, that leads you to the truth. Just as opposed to what you're lying about here. What did Havel say when we paraphrase him? “A lie is the immortal soul of the left-handed.” Now let's go in one order. What did the Constitutional Court say? When it comes to basic education, which is compulsory under the Constitution, it must also be fully financed for children when it comes to private education. To whom does this benefit? The poorest. Those who are rich are so accessible. And look, it's those who here today had the most full mouth of public education, like the Social Democrats, that their children are being trained by their officials in private schools. For example, Mr Luksic, President of SD, has trained his children in private schools. Why? In order to give them the highest quality education, to give them a comparative advantage that will enable them to make the best start in life. To give private education with less resources – watch out, with less resources – better results, you also acknowledged yourself when you said yes, you know, but then private education will achieve better education and everyone will want to go there. Aha? And that's why you want to limit this opportunity to poor, poor people. The rich don't have a problem, the rich will pay for everything. It is not only Mr Luksic, President of the SD, who has trained his children in private education, but also Mr Kučan has sent his daughter to a private institution, to a university abroad. Not to mention some school unionists who are so loud when it comes to public education and their children, you won't believe, they go to private schools. And I can also list a whole bunch of SD officials who are teaching their children in private schools, including in the Škofia High School, for example, churches. Why? Because they give you the highest quality education. It's about children, it's about development, ladies and gentlemen, so this meeting and the initiative and everything you've said is an indescribable disgrace. The Constitutional Court did not want to achieve anything other than allow children from poorer families to have access to the highest quality education. This is also in the development interest of the country of Slovenia, as it is in the development interest of the country of Slovenia to maximize the potential of our children. You were talking about money. Ah, run, now let's see some real numbers. [[…]] Do you have any idea how much all this high-priced education you've been talking about really costs? The difference is 300 000 euros, which is for the 9 billionth budget, nicely put, change, but the total funding is just over 2 million. Ladies and gentlemen, $2 million! That is why the Constitution needs to be amended. This is done by that coalition that threw 126 million taxpayers' money out the window last year alone for migrants. From this money, which you have thrown through the window for illegal migrants in one year, you could spend more than 50 years on private education for our children, for the most talented children in poor families, in order to provide them with the most quality education, more than [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	Can you do it in the dark? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	50 years! Over 50 years, ladies and gentlemen! That people will imagine the mess you are doing here today and how you are actually working with the development potentials of Slovenia. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the truth. Why, in fact, this strong talk about private education, that it is something bad, but in fact, your children are left-handed, those who know what it is, you are happily studying in private schools because you want to create yourself as an elite, and all the others naively push into a subordinate position, and those who do not have access to this school. You leftists have seized all positions in this country's ownership over the past 50 years and have thus come to money. Not to speak of a bank hole, but of everything we've been facing lately, even some kind of money laundering and commissions. All these rich lefties. It is said that leftists have the money to finance their children in private schools, and that is what they do, the Lukšič example, the Kučan example, everyone else. Of course, ordinary people, citizens and citizens of the second order cannot do that. And to their benefit, their children, who may be even more gifted or certainly not less gifted than left-wing children, wanted the Constitutional Court to provide equivalent education. That's all it's about, is the same start to life, which is the only thing consistent with the Constitution, the only thing consistent with values. Before that, you run, that's what you're trying to stop. You want to deprive poor people of the possibility of the best quality education for their children, so that your children will have this education because you can pay for it, but they can't. This is the whole story of this strong fuss today about why the Slovenian Constitution is changing. And that's a shame! It's such a shame you can't say. I firmly believe that people never and never, if they understood what this is about – I wonder how much the media will endure what I'm saying because it's all the truth. If people supported it, you know you wouldn't, you know you wouldn't, which means we'll have another octroid article, as it's called, implanted article in the constitution. [[…]] But this imposed article is to the detriment of children and is to the detriment of the development of the country of Slovenia. And what kind of money is this? From the money you threw through the window for illegal migrants in one year, you could finance a private education for Slovenian children for 50 years. Shame on you. So be ashamed of yourself that you can't say. Why does a public health debate or public education begin to make such an ideological appearance? It's very simple, because in one part of education, unfortunately one part, I don't say that the whole part of public education is just a brainwash and public health is the biggest money launderer. We will discuss this tomorrow when the investigator's report led by Mrs Godec is on the table. And if anyone thinks otherwise, look, according to Article 57 of the Constitution primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds, it is perfectly clear here what it is, it must be financed, and this is precisely what the Constitutional Court has ruled, in order to enable the poorest children who are gifted to poor children to receive the highest quality education. On the other hand, Article 56 states that children are given special protection against abuse. Ladies and gentlemen, the LGBTQ certificates are not just for education, they are now being donated here in Ljubljana for kindergartens. Nobody's gonna convince me that this isn't child abuse. To explain to children some things that are not in line with natural principles, you know, this is a form of pornography and, by the way, this picture of children a crime, but this is all happening, and above all it is a matter of values, because it is always the end of values. There is an example of a school, of course public education, where not long ago volunteers came from the Chamber of Commerce to teach children the values of entrepreneurship. This is the value where Slovenians are so often lagging behind foreigners. We all know, we are extremely capable, extremely intelligent, good people, but when it comes to selling our knowledge of entrepreneurship, we usually whisper very much there, so it is good that this is simply presented to children in the form of a game. That is the world in which we live, and so is the world in which we are established. Do you know what the result was? The children in the game did as they said, one business plan, made a product, the product as they sold and then came one group of teachers with red routes and with a red star on a blue hat and they yelled at everything that someone here is corrupting our poor children with this disgusting capitalism. I don't know which world these people live in, but where our public education is, but I'm crystal clear that something's really wrong, and that's what you're really defending. For ordinary second-class citizens this, your children you will be able to train because you have money because you are an elite, self-called left elite, while speaking against elitism, you are working yourself for the elite because you have money and you will be studying in private schools, as they have already been trained from Lukšič on. This is really behind this story today and therefore this proposal should never have appeared, but it must certainly be rejected. It should be rejected because it is contrary to the fundamental development interests of the state of Slovenia, among which it is to maximize the potential to help children develop their best potential, but it is our common interest. This is the highest national interest, children are the greatest wealth, they are the future, and this is all, not only children from left-wing rich families who are educated in private schools, but all children. Everyone is gifted somewhere, this needs to be sought, helped to develop and thus release development potentials. This is what the Constitutional Court wanted to achieve, and this is what you want to prevent with this change of constitution and you put things on your head, so it's more than embarrassing. Then we wonder if the National Assembly no longer has any reputation. I just hope people are watching you right now to understand what this is all about. To understand that what is enshrined in the Constitution at this time and as judged by the Constitutional Court is in the development interest of the State of Slovenia and in the interests of their children. Every father, every mother, wants to give their children the best place to live, the best education. You yourself admitted, admitted one after the other, that with less money private education gave a better quality education. And that's true. It has been said that, at 700 public schools in Slovenia, only 6 private schools are at present, but the money is even more ridiculous, close to a billion, and there are 600 million public education systems, and good 2 million for all primary education in private schools. That is to say, let us once again say that people will understand what you threw out of the window last year for illegal migrants, which do not bring other than social problems to Europe, many of them, unfortunately, have lost 126 million. With this money, all these private education costs could cover 50 years. 50 years, ladies and gentlemen! And in one year you threw out the window for illegal migrants, for foreigners, for ours, and for Slovenian children you have no money! You won't give it to me! But why would they give them a better education, always the servants of the left hand, the servants of the self-titled elite This is what today is the core of the story. [[...]] All you have to do is put things in the right place and in the right words to make people understand what's really going on. Shame on you. It is possible for you that such a proposal even appeared as an escape from the Constitutional Court's judgment, which was in favour of children. Shame on you for being the proponents. It should be a shame for those of you who voted for it and participated in it. Shame for the children and for the development of the country of Slovenia that you want to destroy, and you want to destroy the most talented children from poor families who, according to your proposal, would no longer have access to quality education, education in private schools. And that's what you're really doing, because you're elite, because you want to do things at any cost, even with a change of constitution, which in this case is pure abuse of the right, pure abuse of power, to do things to the detriment of children from poorer families. This is it, ladies and gentlemen. Today I am only here for one reason, probably all of you have already noticed that some health is bothering me, but because I know it is children, because I know that it is the development of the state of Slovenia – this is what keeps Slovenia most noble, which strengthens it. That is why this constitutional change must be rejected, and that is why I am here today and that is why we will all vote against it in the SDS until the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	Procedurally, mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Dear President! Please ensure the dignity of the National Assembly to ensure that we discuss as in the National Assembly, if not, as I know, you have the opportunity to take the floor. Because what we have just heard is not worthy of the National Assembly. Yes, it's an important topic, it's a topic where the difference between those we think socially and everyone else will clearly be revealed, but what just happened is unworthy. Please, in the future, you can't do this anymore, but you're taking action in the future, because I have a feeling there's going to be something else today.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	I've tried to act on the subject only, but in an ideological speech, it's actually very hard to resolve the hatred that is expressed against the opponents. However, I am not in a position to try to influence the whole debate in such or other ways from this point of view, because I am very clear on this issue. However, I would ask everyone not to involve their hostile attitude in the very argument of the matter. It is still possible to argue without expressing hatred for others who are either present here or are not present here. Procedural first, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Dear Mr. President! Love of home is patriotic. Love for children is a parental concern. When it comes to the nation, it is the care of its people. Don't mix it with hatred. Hatred is what leads proposers who work to the detriment of children from poorer families. This is about development, for children from poorer families, who were asked by the Constitutional Court to have access to the highest quality education, those who can receive it in private education. It's not about anything else. That's what I said. That's not hate. But I believe you've heard this with a lot of unpleasant feelings. But this is your fault, please. This was just a face-to-face with the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	I have made it very clear that arguments can be said without hatred for others who are either present here or are not here. I insist on this assessment. However, since I have been defined for the whole matter, but at the same time I am leading this debate, I cannot intervene and thus not even those arguments, so unfortunately you will have to intervene in this debate in these ways, too, when you recognize such hate speech. I assume it's procedural? Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, you must have followed closely the position expressed by Mr Grims on behalf of the SDS Group. You've probably also noticed that the position was made in a comparative way, comparatively. He said how some of the most exposed members of political parties act in a particular case. He said how much it costs comparatively, say, to compensate for what the State should provide in accordance with the constitutional decision on financing private education. Nothing like segregation or xenophobia was in his focus, but he said comparatively. I do not understand that you, as chairman, and even less those who have listened, perceive this as some kind of hate speech or anything else. The rule of law is true, we have the institutions of the rule of law whose decisions should be valid, you probably agree, the Constitutional Court is an institution that means something in this country, has taken some decision that we were obliged to implement by 19 January 2016, and your coalition, Mr President, you are the President of the National Assembly and the Vice-President of the largest party, has not done so. I don't think you have any moral reason to warn anyone else in this country, not even in the National Assembly. You have no moral reason, nor do you, because you have cooperated in one way or another, actively or passively in this failure to accept the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. Criticizing or reminding anyone who makes this call is kind of lame. I suggest that you no longer use this, even when it comes to Members of our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	The simplest thing to answer is very simple to apply to all the same rules. One thing I've really noticed is the person who does it is the one who likes to see it. But it doesn't make sense to go on like this. We have those who need to talk, we have even a debate, I do not want procedural in this way, if the matter will ever go through the box on one side or the other, and I ask you to make a procedural note of this matter. I told you why I can't mediate in the debate – because then there would be a debate, which is ideological, biased. At this point, unless the matter is really gonna be an eclectic attack on someone, then I'm really gonna have to intervene. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. First of all, we're clear where we are. There is a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President. I sincerely hope Brannet is all right because I saw him get really sick, and I hope it's all right because I saw him get out of the hall. But that doesn't mean I won't say any pire over Mr Grims' performance when he represented the position of SDS. First, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that today, because of this topic, we will not end up fighting and dividing the nation in this country. As a proponent and all of you as signatories, believe me, I was not led by ideology, as I said in the presentation itself, but by some creative motive, as I picture the social state. Personally, as a socialdemocrat, I have no problem with the church and not with religion. I respect it and I think it is part of our tradition in Slovenia, which I know 90% of Slovenes or 80% of Slovenians agree. However, I have to respond to some of the positions both Matthew and Bran had in their positions and also Tomaž with a procedural proposal. The Constitutional Court and these two decisions of the Constitutional Court. Believe me, we have all read, and you and we, and you know that in the second Constitutional Court decision, there was also a separate opinion by Mrs Etelka Korpic Horvat, where she clearly wrote down what the court had decided in 2001 and that she did not see any need to change funding in some way. We have leaned on the position of Dr. Etelka Korpič Horvat, and on this basis we believe that the decisions made by the Constitutional Court are different, and as a proposaler we thought we could resolve this through a constitution. And I believe that, as Democrats, this initiative to amend Article 57 of the Constitution is not short-circuited, and I hope that we can have it. However, we are aware that 60 votes are needed if we are to change it. Second. When my colleague Jože said Brane Grimes had comparisons and so on. These comparisons are extremely dangerous and, if you ask me, they're political, and if you ask me another time, they're not right. Because when we start talking about 300,000 euros when we start talking about 600 schools and 6 schools -- yes, that's true. Should I now say - because it is two Catholic schools - why did the church go to play with the economy and make a billion euro minus instead of throwing all the money into education and not taking away the 85 percent that the state has already said, I would say, no, no, we don't need anything, we will allow all the poor children to study at our Catholic school? I agree with that right now, but don't tell me we're against poor kids. Let one in this room explain to me how a child from my congregation, from my National Society May, where I know that they respect the church, where I know that some would like to go to this school also because of the beliefs that they live in, how he can go to school. How can we help these parents? Who's gonna take them to school? Who's gonna take them to school? How can we get a child out of his mother's bosom in Ljubljana when I don't know what years? Is that fair? Let's also be a little realistic. When we talk about poor children, we have a public network of primary schools in Slovenia and we have good primary schools in Slovenia and the country allows them and also commands them to go to primary school, municipalities pay them to go to primary school, the state pays them lunches, lunches. Let's take care of these poor kids, so I'm not buying this obvious that we're against poor kids. Because my poor child in my congregation is sorry, even if you fund 100 percent of this program, he won't be able to go to this school. I also believe that private schools will not be opened in Mirna, and they will not open in Sevnica, nor in Radeč, because there is another, even private, logic in the back. And I don't mind, thank God. One more thing, talking about left-wings driving our children to some elitist schools is not right. I don't know where Mr Kučan has enrolled his two daughters in primary school, nor do I know where Mr Lukšič has enrolled his children in primary school, but where we are entering or entering children after they go to college – but I am also a little skeptical about all these different private colleges. We see what we get today from some private colleges, some doctors, masters and so on, what we get out of these schools. They have a document, they have paper, I absolutely agree, I don't have it, and they have it – are these people all employed? So we don't mix college with elementary school now. I'm really going to try to avoid arguing with my colleagues on the other side because of ideology, and I'm not going to be, and you're not going to make me nervous and I'm going to treat you with respect. But I will always answer when you tell us that we do not want to help poor children and that you are the ones who care for poor children. All poor children, sadly, cannot go to this Catholic school in Ljubljana and Maribor, and probably from my district who would have wanted to. I know it's quality and it's a good school, just like public school is a good school, but unfortunately, even if it comes up with 100 percent funding, all the kids in this country and all the parents who want to enroll the kids in this school won't be able to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	Without a discussion, there really can't be a replica. [[advertising from the hall]] That doesn't help, because we're not at a point where everyone would discuss it on their own. I just opened the debate. First, we need to discuss the possibility of replicating. Procedural for the purpose of the replica, obviously? Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Dear President! It will absolutely be procedural, I will not abuse it to go into the content, just let me explain why I cannot have a replica, but when Member Han said in his introductory implementation: “I would like to respond to some of the things that Tonin said.” And now, say, I'd like to replicate it and you say I can't. Explain that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	What could be identified by the proposer's representative at this point is up to the opinions of the groups. I think that this matter has also been so understood and must be understood in this way, but not in a personal way, even if it has been explained in this way. Procedurally, Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me remind you, Mr Han said in his debate that he would avoid these political debates, but nevertheless he beheaded our Commissioner, Mr Grims, and told him that he had made political comparisons in his position. Not one of the things he said is political, and they hold all the comparisons, they stand. If someone doesn't believe it now, Mrs President, please note that this little Google can get everything from all of us and from those who were called here – where they were, what they were doing, how much they cost and so on. All this information is verifiable. I would ask you to point out that in such cases, when someone makes a political statement to someone, it is also a political debate. We expect the applicant to have a real debate that will not discredit the data, comparisons or anything that they say on the other hand does not lie with the proposers of this point. And there's one more thing. You know, there are a lot of separate opinions in the Constitutional Court, you know, this is what the proponent of this point knows, but today we are witnessing that it refers to the only and only one opinion of one who wrote a separate opinion, or one who wrote a separate opinion. Why, though, in the case of Mr Jaklič or Shorli, who also write separate opinions, do you not refer to these separate opinions? If most constitutional judges have decided, she has decided, and that is the case. We are talking about the decision of the Constitutional Court. When will you, Mr President, make the law the way you have now begun to change the constitution and then it is your own problem? What has now been said is politics. That, on the basis of one separate opinion, the Constitution should be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Prepare Mrs Marija Bachič and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting to all! In the Desus Group, we support the proposal to supplement Article 57 of the Constitution, which relates to the way basic education is financed. In the Desus Group we also advocate public schools, public health and all other programmes of public interest. We are committed to public education in Desus because we believe that this is the only way the country can provide basic education to all citizens and citizens through public education. The State is also responsible for providing conditions for the implementation of primary education. It is necessary to ensure that primary schools are located throughout the country, i.e. in remote areas, in higher lying areas. I would like to say only the case of the Basilica, which problem of primary education in primary school we have been familiar with this year. This is why the state prescribes educational programmes, which must contain a neutral and independent programme independent of all views, independent of all ideologies, independent of all philosophies and of course of all religions. It is important that primary school remain independent and not under the influence of all of these. If I look now at the proceedings before the Constitutional Commission, I would say that this procedure has been going on for a very long time. The first meeting of the Commission was held on 7 May 2015 and the proposal for the initiation of this procedure was tabled at 18. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This day, therefore, Members of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, the United Left and the Alliance of Alenka Bratušek tabled a proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is necessary to enable everyone in the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of their initial position, to have access to quality public primary education, to prevent, at constitutional level, interference with autonomy and the secular neutrality of primary education in the Republic of Slovenia, at the constitutional level, the primary public interest of the Republic of Slovenia is unequivocally expressed by the provision of accessibility and quality of public primary education, and to eliminate the unconstitutionality found by the five judges of the Constitutional Court in its decision U-I-269 of 4. 12. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitutional Commission has considered the proposal and, in order to ensure a professional approach in the drafting of the text of Article 57, appointed a special expert committee to which the parties to the National Assembly have appointed legal experts in the field of constitutional law. This first meeting of the Constitutional Commission was followed by four further meetings this year. 10. Finally, we have adopted a consensus proposal for a starting point for the text of the amendment to Article 57 of the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to point out in this debate that in two cases the Constitutional Court has decided differently on the same matter. We have heard a few opinions about this today, and I will tell mine, which I will, of course, also support with the facts contained in the constitutional decisions. It's a very contradictory decision. The Constitutional Court on the financing of primary education in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the case with decision 4. 12. In the opinion of the Desus Group, 2014 did not take into account the previous decision of the Constitutional Court of 2001. The Constitutional Judges did not follow the concept which was at the time of the formation of this Article 57 at the time of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. when the text of this Constitution and of this Article was written. The two different decisions of the Constitutional Court indicate that the Constitutional Court decides differently not to take into account previous decisions in order not to take into account all the legally relevant facts. Such decision-making among citizens, including among us in the National Assembly, gives rise to a lack of confidence in law. It gives rise to a lack of confidence in the institution of the Constitutional Court, which is the highest court in the country. When you question his righteous judgment or decisions, you ask yourself what kind of judges we have in this court. Of course, it is not good for citizens to have doubts about the fair decision of constitutional judges. In my debate, I would also like to point out that in these two decisions, as I have already said, the Constitutional Court has ruled differently, and in explanation, this is now important, the Constitutional Court has stated that the legislator's decision to finance the state entirely only in public schools – this is the 2001 decision – in which all parents can enter their children and is in the field of its judgment and is therefore not in conflict with the Constitution. This explanation is referred to by the honourable Constitutional Judge, Dr Etelka Korpič Horvat, who delivered a separate opinion on the current Constitutional Decision of 2014. The Constitutional Court therefore ruled differently or differently on the same matter in two of its decisions. That is a fact, respected and respected. I would also draw attention to the position of the European Court of Human Rights in the Belgian Linguistic case. The European Court of Human Rights considered that the State was not obliged to establish or finance private schools but should not prevent or impede their establishment and operation. Nor do the international declaration and conventions impose upon countries financial support for private basic education, so as not to prohibit it. In the Desus Group, we believe that private education can be financed from public funds, but only in the work that is compulsory, this is said to be a compulsory part of the programme in public private schools. This is the part that provides a uniform minimum education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	Procedurally, Mr. Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I have intervened once today, Mr Vice President, and I am truly very sorry, but I have had enough to listen to lies in this National Assembly after all these years. I understand that we have different views, but that the lady lawyer is affording herself lies and says that she is going to the 2001 Constitutional Court ruling and the 2014 constitutional decision on the same matter is a lie. That is why, Madam Vice-President, I then asked the President to refer both Members and Members to the Constitutional Court. And should the honourable Member read as a lawyer what the initiators referred to in 2001 and the third paragraph and the fourth paragraph of Article 72 of the Constitution and the constitutional initiators of 2014 refer to the first sentence of Article 86(2). And that's a key change. Article 57 of the Constitution states that primary education is what? Publicly. However, the 2001 instigators wanted everything in the field of private education to be financed by public funds, and we do not have any problems in the SDS Group, but in the constitution we have that primary education is public and that is why the Constitutional Court's decision was also taken. Therefore, the honourable Vice-President, I propose - I will not propose every time someone lies, but that lawyers do not know what they write in the Constitutional Court's decision, but it is a disaster and even the second time it is a disaster, and I ask you to warn the Member who is a lawyer, so long as we have such a constitutional order in the Republic of Slovenia, where we also have a Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court does not verify the relevant facts. If a respected lawyer has problems with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that is her problem. But I think we need to follow what the President of the Government has said, and that's not what he's doing. He said: “The decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and respected.” Here we are talking about two decisions, so I propose once again, Madam President, give the Members both the Constitutional Court's decision to see where the difference is, and that, as a lawyer, she can consult her fellow Members wisely, what is and how it is on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Lisec, for your opinion. If I am only allowed to reply, I would like to see this agenda item debated in an undisturbed manner today. Each of us has the right to have his own position, and it is our responsibility that we are not offensive to our colleagues. If anything disturbs you, Mr Lisec, you will have the opportunity to give your position. What others advocate, however, is their personal opinion and their personal right. Here, you have a procedural, first Mr Matjaž Han, then Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat and Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Vice-President, just to warn the Member of Parliament. But Tomaž, since you're reading the lies of the Members of Parliament, you have to read the Constitution first. It doesn't say primary school is public. Read it, and then you can teach us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	Mrs. Marjana Kotnik Poropat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to point out that it is not worthy in the National Assembly to report to someone who is lying, that I did not lie, that I will say that you have said that the initiators referred to this, and I am talking about what the court has decided and what was stated in the explanation of this decision. That was my debate, that's what it was about. However, as regards what Mr Han has already said now that primary education is public, this does not appear in Article 57. I will read it so that you will know what the Constitution says: “Education is free. Primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” And the third paragraph: “The State creates opportunities for citizens to receive appropriate education.” That's what it says in the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	Mr. Tomaž Lisec, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you. First of all, I apologize to you all for saying that primary schools are public, they are financed by public funds. It does, and this is crucial that primary education is compulsory in accordance with Article 57. That's the key point. Why am I disturbed by the lie of the ambassador? Because she said that the decisions of the Constitutional Court in 2001 and 2013 were the same, but that there was a different interpretation, which, once again, is not true. That is why the Member lied because, as it is said, the 2001 Constitutional Court decision referred to the challenge of Article 72, paragraph 3, and paragraph 4, of the Constitution. The challenge to the Constitution in 2014 refers to the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 86, which is that "primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds." In particular, I was disturbed, Madam Vice-President, by the fact that lawyers speak so resiliently about the decisions of the Constitutional Court that they do not even separate the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which proves only one – either legal ignorance or a lie. And I really have enough. I have no problems, Madam Vice-President, with ideas left: right, ours: yours and by submitting yours, but lying about how all the decisions of the Constitutional Court are the same is not sustainable. In view of the rest of the implementation, I believe that the lady is a Member, because she is a lawyer, and I believe that she is a legal apprentice, not an ignorant one, lying.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	Since I am in charge, I will round up my response to all three procedural proposals. I would like today's debate to take place in a constructive spirit, with a view to clearly respecting and giving our views. We continue to make our views known. Mrs. Maria Bachič, you have the floor. Prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mr Saša Tabaković. Here you go, Mrs. Bachich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Respected and respected, well-known! As we have heard today, public school is a good school, although it is not ideal. All children are entitled to it, regardless of their status, religious beliefs or abilities. Many times we have been critical of this temple to public school, but only because we want it to be even more friendly and less stressful for our children. I have nothing against private schools, but I would like to point out that public and private schools are different. Different not only ideologically, worldwidely, but also substantively. This distinction is also justified by the different levels of public funding of one school and another. The differences are reflected in practice, where the scope and organisation are in many ways different, and I would like to present these differences to you. So, the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education and the Law on Primary Schools of Private and Public Schools vary according to the scope of the services offered by them. According to the subject, the private school is obliged to carry out subjects such as Slovenian, Hungarian or Italian, of course in internationally mixed areas, mathematics, first foreign language, history, homeland and civil culture and ethics, sport, at least one social subject and at least one subject in the field of art. The public school has a completely different subject. Some private schools also implement a programme in accordance with specific pedagogical principles, says Steiner, Montessori, and can design a programme in principle by providing only minimum knowledge for completed primary schools; it is said that knowledge requirements are much smaller. Here I wonder whether students in this private school will receive the appropriate knowledge they will need for further education. Furthermore, private schools are not required to provide school calendars. In fact, they can decide for themselves whether to attend school or to take days off. The difference between public and private schools is also that private schools are not required to set educational periods, that is, triads, first, second, third, you know. The difference between public and private schools is also that private schools are not required to form classes, departments and study groups. Private school does not have to comply with mandatory provisions as in public school, it is said that there is a simultaneous presence of a teacher and a first-class educator. In the first period they are not obliged either So, in the first period of public school, teachers of classrooms are taught, at the level of teachers of the course, and in the private school they do not have to take this into account. [[…]] In addition, there are no restrictions on this or on the legal and educational conditions in the extended stays, morning protection and the like. The difference is that public schools register each child, regardless of his or her status or abilities, and private schools choose students on their own according to the criteria set out by them. There's discrimination against children here because not everyone can enter a private school. That is how we have heard today that, for example, from remote places, not all children who actually want to attend a private school can be enrolled. Therefore, if I withdraw, it is not possible in private schools to achieve the same high educational standard of knowledge as in public schools, because it is not necessary for all subjects to be represented in private schools, except compulsory, in particular in those private schools which educate according to specific teaching principles. Thus, all students do not have equal opportunities and do not have equal access to knowledge. On the basis of the above, it is apparent that the legal provisions applicable to private schools deviate substantially from those applicable to public schools. The functioning of private schools is therefore significantly more flexible and cheaper and such a distinction was also justified before the Constitutional Court's decision to vary the level of funding. I have therefore listed the differences between the public and private school programmes, which are obviously large and if there is an equalisation of funding, they have determined, in relation to public schools, strongly unfair and clearly favour private schools. I believe that we are obliged to maintain a quality and accessible public school for all and we need to support the amendment of the Constitution in Article 57. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mr Saša Tabaković and Mr Primož Hainz. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues! I never give up in my life, and I never threw a rifle in my corn. Our only tool is words. We are now talking about a change in the constitution, we are also talking about the school system. I was fortunate enough to have two-thirds of my children in private high school, and they tell me that if we had that option again, we would have done it again. That way, I won't let anyone explain to me what private schools are and what state schools are. But I have a problem, and here we should stop and write on the definition board what a state school is, what a private school is. All those schools and all those institutions funded by public funds are public. Of course, the Constitution is very clear: education is free. Ladies and gentlemen, is it true? This sentence is certainly based on an international treaty called the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It's an international contract. It has been ratified by the National Assembly, and it is now obvious that you, the proponents, are on the path of injustice. Do not say that the parent will now have a free choice, as stated in the Protocol number 1, paragraph 2, chapter of the Right to Education, quote, “No one shall be deprived of the right to education. In carrying out tasks relating to education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to provide such education and education to their children, in accordance with their religious and philosophical beliefs." It's about free choice of parents, not you proposing, dear colleagues and colleagues! The second paragraph of Article 57, “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds.” Is that so? How much do you pay for work volumes and so on? There is no constitutionality, no constitutionality. Earlier, a colleague from Desus, who was probably engaged, quoted some of the jurists as saying that the state was not obliged to establish private schools. Hello?Oh, my God! Does the country establish private schools? And what is more, Madam Lawyer, a respected colleague, somehow encourages citizens and also doubts justice itself, and – how else? – the honesty of constitutional judges. Yeah, where did we go?Oh, my God! That's amazing! Therefore, we do not have the basic definitions cleared and the lady herself repeats what has also been heard at the fifth session of the Second Constitutional Commission, on 5 October this year, I quote, “and this is also evidence that the Constitutional Court has essentially decided twice” – in the same case as he could say, “others”. And what we are barking at and on the committee, I have asked Mr President Milan Brglez to explain this matter. No, he doesn't! You know, I am, as I am, a Member of all citizens of this country. Don't tell him, and here we ask, let's get this thing straight; don't tell him. So, we are going to change the constitution with some bulldozer on wrong assumptions, ladies and gentlemen, because you say, no, no, no, we have to solve this so that it will no longer happen so that the same case will be decided twice again by the Constitutional Court. Wrong assumption, wrong assumption! It's not. In 2014 alone, the Constitutional Court ruled on the non-constitutionality of Article 86 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. If our fathers of the Slovenian Constitution, which was adopted on 23 December 1991, were to do the constitution in this way – I do not know where we would be today! I avoid ideological debates, even though you have introduced it, respected proponents, but I say what many other smart people in this country say. In 1991, we won, but we didn't get free. Today, parents do not have and will not have freedom because you say that education is free, that parents have the freedom to send their children, who are the greatest treasure of every family, to the school that they think is best for their children. This freedom, dear colleagues and colleagues, you take and talk as much as you can about financing primary education and so on. Let's have an exact conversation! We speak and demand and the Constitutional Court requests: the public programme must be equally financed, whether it is in a public school or in a private school. That's what the Constitutional Court said. It's a public service program. I repeat the parable. So if someone in a state school is teaching a count of 7, and someone in a private school is teaching a public programme, including a count of 7, and they have both done their job well, it is probably the principle of equal pay for the same work done – qualitatively the same, quantitatively the same. You say, "No, we don't agree to that." Today, the one who teaches a score of 7, gets 100 monetary units, the one who does his job in private, and the one who gets 85 monetary units. Look, if that's right, the Constitutional Court said it wasn't right. Today, in fact, there should be a debate on a truly free primary school, because basic education is compulsory and financed by public funds. What you're doing today is so ignorant, you're going into some solutions where you don't have clear definitions, and it looks like you're really disturbed by two church schools of 272; 6 is private, 4 is based on philosophical foundations, two churches. I'm sure that's what's bothering you. Probably because they're supposed to be very good and there's a big rush. You do elitism with your solution, unless you ban private schools. We already knew that, and we're going back anyway, that's a fact. You will probably ban private schools, because it will be elitism, because in private schools, where it will be necessary to pay for education, only economics, i.e. economic elites, will be able to do so. If that's your goal, I don't know if you're aware of what you're actually doing. I am strictly opposed to amending the Constitution because it is a perverted way of eliminating the unconstitutionality of a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	Mr Saša Tabaković has the floor to prepare Mr Primož Hainz and Jan Škoberne. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Since it was clear from the debates of Members that today it was a strong political misunderstanding of the concept of quality school policy, which, of course, occurred today, also with the interpretation of Article 57 of the Constitution on a 25-year legal basis, which never in the past made the distinction between public and private education clearer, we also received a decision from the Constitutional Court, which, in some part in the future, opens the door to the decentralisation of school space in a way of privatising the school system. This is today, if we want to move away from the ideological debate, this is really the basis of today's debate, what the concept of education we really want. I think that given that right-wing political provenance is very strongly highlighting the selection system – they went even so far as to deceive, I don't know, about the social picture that poor children won't be able to go to private schools or anything like that. I think it's a deceiving, actually, from the study of the country that introduced the system in the way the right one imagines. This was the case with Sweden, which introduced the decentralisation of school space and their results after 20 years of schooling are catastrophic. Why? Because this was the way in which the legislation changed because public and private education was not opened at constitutional level, schools were forced into commercialisation because they simply had to start competing for students. As a result, the actual circuit from the unification of the social ethos also followed. In fact, today we understand the school as a place where students coming from different families, let these differences be social, let these differences be valuable, simple in the school space to simplify the value system so that once as adults in the future they can live together patiently and in peace. This is because, after they privatized the school system, if you want to be very simplified, schools were increasingly forced to establish their own standards, some of their own ethics, which also led to a certain ghettoisation and marginalisation of social groups, which then, of course, took advantage of such a school system. The latest OECD study has shown that decentralisation of the education system, which means that it is totally no matter who the founder is, only that the programmes are somewhat similar to each other, in order to achieve certain standards of knowledge, that the decentralisation of the education system, which was based primarily on school choice, has in fact increased differences in school performance and consequently social differentiation. In fact, before Sweden introduced, if you want, the decentralisation of the educational system, there were differences between the achievements of pupils in different schools and between individual children according to their sex, or ethical affiliation, or social origin, or religious belief at least. When this total liberalisation occurred, because, as it is said, they did not accurately unlock the functioning of public and private education, these differences increased over time. Above all, students’ achievements have become increasingly linked to the level of education of their parents. Many studies, not some political pamphlets, but a number of professional studies, have unanimously confirmed the increasing social and cultural segregation of students, students and greater differences in their academic achievements. The greater differences between students’ achievements in different schools are in fact the most tangible indicator of this. Above all, what is most worrying is that it has proved to be a fear that, contrary to the fact that it is generally claimed that housing segregation does not necessarily lead to greater school segregation – such as in the case of Slovenia – the fact that privileged groups have increasingly taken advantage of the possibility of choosing a school to also avoid contact with less privileged groups. These are the substantive things that we should discuss today, what kind of school system we want, and not whether we are talking about two Catholic schools today, if you want, while in public political discourse all the other schools have somehow fallen out. When it is said that we do not really understand what schools we have; no, school policy is very precise. We have public schools implementing a public programme, we have private schools implementing a public programme that has obtained a concession and is now fully funded by the state. And we have private schools, basic private schools that do not have concessions because they do not implement public programmes, but they are implementing a programme that, through the Section of the Ministry of Education, has obtained a certificate that their programme is meeting the standards of the public programme, which means that the students attending these schools have reached the level of primary education so that they can continue their education at the following stages. These private schools, which have been spoken of today, do not implement the public programme, but have acquired, their programme has gained the application of the public programme. This means that they achieve knowledge standards but do not implement the same programme, as is clear from the Basic School Act – number one. Under number two. It has been repeatedly said that for a change, with the intent of amending the Constitution and amending the law, we are violating any international commitments that affect human rights. In the case of Belgium, the European Court of Human Rights has made its decision very clear that the State is not obliged to finance private initiatives within the school system, which means that the State is obliged to provide public school infrastructure, public quality school programmes, but that a private initiative must be understood as a complement to the school system in a way that private education is encouraged, which does not mean that it is fully financed by the State. So when we talk about the distinction between public and private, I support the amendment of the Constitution in a way that will make it clearer for public and private education because the past policy intentions have shown that they want to blur the border between public and private education, and from the mistakes of the countries that have done so, we simply have to learn, in my opinion, in a way that it is more precisely at the constitutional level and also at the level of law. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	Mr Primož Hainz has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Zvonko Lah. Here you go, Mr. Hainz.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello to you all again! I have to say that elementary school is a good school in Slovenia, I think even excellent, but of course I have to say that at the Minister's hearing myself, I have pleaded that the entire school system should have a little less maneuvering and perhaps a little more thinking, philosophy within individual subjects, adapted to today's techniques, because children are getting a lot of knowledge outside the school space, but this is certainly another question. The fact is that the entire school system in our country, the education and education system, works great if you ask me. My basic starting point is, of course, in all of this – and I think that Desus parties too – is that it is a social problem. Thus, all children have equal opportunities to enroll in school, regardless of the environment in which they are born or where they live. However, I must say that there is a lot of commotion in these matters. Actually, my colleague was on TV, on POP TV, and I'm not going to name him, because he's going to say it himself, very clearly. It's not even about the 200 grand or how much of that money, it's about ending the lead times. If this is not more than politicisation, then, of course, what else can I say: it is politicisation, or I must say that this war would not be war or this debate would not be so painful today. Why is it necessary to yell at the debate, raise your voice, and discredit those who think otherwise, if not because when it is ideology, then of course people do not choose their means? Of course, it's simple logic. The neoliberal concept, the social concept in which we went – instead of going to the liberal, we went to the neoliberal – has a very clear concept and, of course, some say it peacefully at each session once or several times. All social property must be sold, state societies must be impoverished, institutions such as school, health care and so on, and then privatised. This is a fundamental concept that can hide behind such or other beautiful terms, but in fact it only goes in a global way, because, of course, some of it should have something in the long run. To be political, of course, we can't deny it. Speaking of which, I can say stocuna, when let's say the Slovenian Church I am now quoting in the newspapers and I apologize if, of course, some information is not accurate. [[…]] When it appears in the newspapers that the Slovenian Church asks the Vatican for help and then they all say together, if Slovenia does not support private Catholic education, not to say private, of course rounding up, then the Vatican will not support Slovenia in the arbitration agreement. I think it's pure politicization on a pretty high level. Some refer to the Convention on Human Rights. Of course, the Convention on Human Rights states that parents have the right to education of children of their own accord, but of course they should also quote what someone has already mentioned today. In fact, the European Court of Human Rights has made it very clear in Belgium's judgment that Linguistics is the right to access educational institutions that exist at a given time and the right to formal recognition of completed education under conditions applicable in each country. However, on the basis of the negative formulation of the right to education, it considered that this State party does not commit itself to establishing and co-financing any education at any stage. This is the European Court of Human Rights, also cited by the Constitutional Court in 2014, regardless of how we feel about individual decisions of the Constitutional Court. So, of course, I think that, in fact, today we are only trying to make the wording in the Constitution clear, because obviously this formulation, such as it is, today provides a variety of interpretations, which is, of course, proven in all our debates and, of course, also in the decisions of the Constitutional Court in these two variants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Mr Jan Škoberne has the floor to prepare Mr Zvonko Lah and Tomaž Lisec. Here you go. Mr. Hainz, just a microphone, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It may not make sense to frame this debate into an ideological space, with education in itself an ideological question, because it is a question of whether everyone has the right to equal access to quality education or whether it can be taken by a group. And it is an ideological question because it stems from this issue of the state's direction, whether it will provide it through a wide-ranging network for all or eventually centralise it, break it down into individual segments and leave it to – implementation and, in the end, financing – to interests. For this reason, we need to ask ourselves what are the values of the spirit of our constitution, and through this prism, we need to see how our educational system should be regulated; I say, not only at the primary level, but through the entire vertical. And the direction is clear – we are a country of equal people based on solidarity and equal access to services, opportunities and opportunities for all. At the same time, we are not a country of unlimited resources. I would understand that we must buy out all private school services if we could afford it as a country. I can even agree with those who do not support this constitutional change in that six primary schools will not destroy the public system. It won't, it's a fact. But our responsibility is not to set standards from today to tomorrow, but to see how they develop and implement over the decades to come. And if we allow today to adopt the norm that the state has to finance all private schools, then of course we will not remain in this country with six private schools. Although this debate may impress or even impress us with this process, we are also actually doing wrong to these six private schools, especially those among those who are actually very quality and good schools. Therefore, there is a constitutional change in the direction where the need to finance the public network of state schools is absolutely stressed, if you want, from public resources and allows discretion to the legislator, to regulate by law the possibility of financing private schools also from public funds. Which is perfectly logical, since the legislator will also determine, depending on the will of the people to vote – but we are a democratic republic, a parliamentary democracy – how much funding from the budget, to which all citizens and citizens contribute, we are prepared to devote to private school funding. However, this cannot be an absolute norm and it cannot be 100 % mandatory. Why? Since what happened in the region will be simple for us, perhaps not at the primary level, but certainly at the level of higher education – the inflation of institutions and programmes where everyone had the right to finance, under quotations, was a drastic decline in the quality of higher education; in the end, it was a severe blow to excellent institutions in higher education because of the inflation of the rest of them. And in the most difficult times, we have made mistakes about what is most important for a country — support for science, development and investment in knowledge. In the higher education sector, however, it is still possible to correct this. Imagine that this happens to us at the elementary level, that basic, basic knowledge falls under the possibility of such an evolution. If we give different options, different starting points and do not give everyone the highest possible to understand, the quality and maximum accessibility of public education, then, of course, as a society, we shut down scissors and prevent ourselves from reaching development potential in its maximum range or range, but consciously limit ourselves to a smaller circle, then this means generating social exclusion, deprivability and so on. Another point is where we can manipulate one another and the other. What does this EUR 300,000 mean at the annual level? For a primary school, a branch school, in a small place where there will be no branch primary school, there will be no longer any prospect of a place, the missing 300,000 euros in the state budget are fatal. Not only for school, not just for teachers working there, but also for a place where, of course, young parents will no longer want to bring their children, to raise them there because they will not have basic infrastructure, and this is access to knowledge. When we say so, because the doctor only comes every now and then because most concessionaires don't want to come to the remote and remote places of Slovenia, most of them would be in the centres where it's nice to be a concessionaire. But those who come from thefts, which are also peripheral, are faced with how impossible it is to get doctors, good doctors, especially concessionaries, because they want to go to the center. Because they fear that many other development opportunities will be missed. It is therefore necessary to clearly support, unwavering and sound public education through the Constitution and, through law, to give the possibility, in the next phase, within the framework of available resources, to finance the excellent and good private primary schools that we also have. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor to prepare Mr Tomaž Lisec and Dr Milan Brglez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. I've been worried for a long time that you're talking about public health and private health and public schools. It is national schools and private schools and public health care and public health is both public health if one and the other are carrying out a public programme. Just because everything that people hear from the state, let's say that everything that is state-owned is bad - state banks, state-owned companies, state-owned agricultural land are mismanaged, so you're not going state-run and you're here favoring that private education or primary education should be state-run, that's better. Here one of you is saying that not everyone is guaranteed the best, most quality primary education. But we know that sparrows are sniveling that the results in these private schools implementing the public programme are better than in state primary schools. Now it's wrong because they're better for you and because it's not accessible to everyone. Why don't you be in the Osilnica in a lot of smaller places now broadcast, close the mail or put in private postal services. Why shouldn't there be a private school in Osilnica? Because, I don't know, are four students alone? Or somewhere else. With us 2010, we built a primary school and kindergarten with no idea of which reserve until what year, and the second year will be a small facility. However, in the very place we have many facilities that are empty, where this activity could be carried out with smaller construction operations. And if someone were to set up a private part of the elementary school, they'd invest themselves. The state still has no money left for primary school investments, not since 2011. The municipalities also do not have the budget defined In the framework of the integrated budget are also funds for the construction of primary schools and all municipalities are heavily indebted because they had to build it. [[…]] It's the same in health care. Earlier, the congregation had to provide premises, as long as it was public, for example, a health home, after we had granted the concession, and it was no longer a cost because the concessionaire provided this and carried out public health care. I don't know why this has to be limited. Why is it fear? I think there should be more of these private primary schools. In order to stimulate the country, because we are spatially limited in practice, even in larger cities, in the countryside of many places. Why don't we just let what's good get in your nose and you want to block it with a change of constitution? In each mandate, the authorities can determine how much they will finance private schools when I have listened to the predecessor. So we're going to set up a school, the state is going to pay for everything, but a new government is coming, and it says, "Now we're not going to pay you anymore." What are we gonna close? You're childish, you're funny.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u67	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor. Prepare Mr Milan Brglez and Mrs Jelka Godec. Mr. Fox, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u68	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. It bothers me, too, that when we talk about public schools and private schools and private schools with concessions, there should be in fact only two schools – good schools and bad ones. Today, when we listen primarily to the middle or left - centred and left - centered political poles, I feel that they do not believe what is happening or what they wrote. That they have a problem because private schools are more successful and better than public schools. So, according to your logic, it would be ideal for private primary schools to have public funding. Maybe think about everything you do. I was very disturbed when you wrote a few lies in your proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution. First. You have written down that everyone in Slovenia, regardless of their position, has access to quality public primary education. I ask you, you believe that in Slovenia we have access to quality primary education. We at SDS think we have it. If we don't have it, the problem with this government and these ministers in this government is to sort it out. Second. You wrote that it is necessary to prevent interference at constitutional level with autonomy and the sacred mental neutrality of Do not joke! [[…]] Holy mental - minded neutrality? And you don't have to look at what happened in school 30 years ago, see what's happening now that we know a lot of the teacher's provenance where it belongs. World mental neutrality is or should be ensured, and we do not achieve this after the concerns of the left governments. If you record that at constitutional level it is unequivocally expressed that the primary public financial care of the Republic of Slovenia is to ensure accessibility and quality of public primary education. Primary public financial care. Ladies and gentlemen, for the public programmes of private primary schools we give 0.5% of the budget in the field of education and then say that it is clear that primary public financial care is primary public education. And then today we listen: privatisation, decomposition of the new and such nonsense that I will not say lies and moves. We have six primary schools, which are compulsory under Article 57 of the Constitution, and you are saying that these primary schools are an attack on the public! Fourth, final criterion. Why do you think we need to change the constitution? To remedy the unconstitutionality identified by the five judges of the Constitutional Court in the decision. So you've written down that most of the judges of the Constitutional Court acted unconstitutionally. This is like having a law in the National Assembly and saying that 42 members of the National Assembly who were in favour acted unlawfully because there were 41 Members for or that this majority will does not apply. Just look into the past how many decisions were voted from 9 to zero or 5 to 4. Most people make decisions. Even though we do not agree with three quarters of your decisions on amendments and laws in the SDS Group, we cannot write down what you wrote down; even between you lawyers with the President of the Government as a constitutional lawyer, in order to eliminate the unconstitutionality that five judges of the Constitutional Court have found. It's a disaster! Honourable President of the National Assembly, you should suggest that those criteria be withdrawn or that they should not even be placed in a state-level assembly procedure. The Constitutional Court has ruled and does not matter whether 9 is zero or 5 to 4; the majority is ruling as elsewhere. To write that it is unconstitutional because most have made decisions is perverse, hypocritical. In this mandate, when we have one judge who is supposed to be right-wing, and we give him a media and political beating because he has a negative opinion, he is easily flogged. But, no, most people here acted unconstitutionally. This is a direct attack on the Constitutional Court and its decisions. We will propose a meeting on the Constitutional Commission and we will give history, all decisions of the Constitutional Court, where the vote was uneven. Let's see what we get. Five to four is the majority. It's like they say in football that 1 against nothing is a win. It's a win. And you write such nonsense, a direct assault on the constitution. [[advertising in the hall]] Dear Vice President, I ask you to ensure peace. Thank you. As far as the continuation is concerned, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are concerned. I have already intervened twice today, but it may be necessary once again, given that neither the lawyers in the coalition parliamentary groups can read the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and that the 2001 Constitutional Court decision is in no way similar to that of the Constitutional Court decision of 2014. But I understand that the government coalition, which has problems with decisions, not only the Constitutional Court, but also other courts, which have problems with the enforcement and adoption of the Constitution, which violates its own legislation under this mandate, has repeatedly been proven to have problems with reading decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are completely different. And one more thing. When we had an interview with the Minister of Education, who had done nothing for two years, she had already given some kind of victory to the National Assembly – although the Constitutional Court said that within one year we had to implement a decision of the Constitutional Court, which was very clear that we had to do in the 86th article of the Constitution, not what you wrote down, but something completely different – Mr. Cerarski went to private elementary school, took pictures with the bishop and the child – said what? “I am personally very unhappy because the decision of the Constitutional Court is not being complied with.” And he said in the party's world that “the decision of the Constitutional Court, in accordance with what I said before the elections” is, I quote again his statement, “the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and taken into account” in order to do so. The Honourable President of the Government has been knowingly lying and manipulating for two years. However, I hope, and I say this directly, that he is at least very unhappy because he does not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Not only does it fail to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, a hypocritical move is made in the National Assembly when a coalition, instead of a decision of the Constitutional Court that fails to comply, fails to respect and refuses to execute it, makes an establishment and amends the Constitution. This happens only in dictatorships, where the majority reject decisions of the Constitutional Court in baskets only through government actions. It's already been said today, it's basically a constitutional blow, whether you admit it or not. Once again, I will read an article that was very short but very concise. “Perfect equality is not proposed by anyone and the Constitutional Court has not demanded it. Private primary schools do not receive money for investment, investment maintenance and equipment after any of the proposals." In short, private schools are cheaper for the state and citizens than public schools. An example of the last investment in primary school in our congregation was given by the state one million and the rest by the congregation. If it were a private school, would it cost this congregation and the country — how much? Nothing except, of course, in case the local community was the one who set up the school. But in accordance with the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education and under the Basic Schools Act, private primary schools cannot simply be multiplied. As it was said, “in five years we will have 200.” It's not possible, because the government and the ministry and the National Assembly, through the law, have the opportunity to tell all schools through their authorities. And not only on the basis of religious and political conviction, but also on the basis of the fact that there is already a public school in the place, there must not be a private school because it would be competition. Read the letters to our question by the ministry, which confirmed this, but of course not, it is politically possible to speak. That is why today we have a debate that has been produced by the proponents for an ideological fight because they fear six private schools of the seven hundredths. No fear, my respects, can be you after the establishment of new primary schools. There are two or three initiatives and they stand, and I am sure that as long as the left political option is left, no school that will smell at least a little bit to you unless it is possible that I hope to hold back what kind of school is named after a political past, an ideological leader, will come to life. And if we really had so many wishes, how will the right one establish religious and private schools — how many schools, religious ones, were established in the 2004-2008 mandate? Five, ten, one hundred, two hundred? What we heard today. These are the obviously depressed lies that I find difficult — like someone with a healthy farmer’s brain — in the head when the former president of the government operates with numbers like that, as if she forgot that she was the Prime Minister and that she may have even heard of a private school. Today, when we are talking about privacy and how problematic this is and how the President of the Constitutional Court said what should be, the current President. What did the former President of the Constitutional Court say at the time of the adoption of the decision of the Constitutional Court? To see a major political problem because politics does not want to enforce decisions of the Constitutional Court at the political level. So, once again, Your Honor, I'm going to tell you what he said – let's leave ethical, moral aside, we've known for a long time that he's gone – and a constitutional lawyer. For a long time, we know that his understanding of the law is not only three-quarters of lawyers in Slovenia, but especially those who use a healthy farm smart as a basic legal guide, it is not understandable. He said, Prime Minister Miro Cerar, both in pre-election speeches and in the first speeches following the establishment of this government: "The decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and respected." And then befel to his parliamentary group to sign a draft constitutional law supplementing the second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia only because he does not like the decision of the Constitutional Court and speaks publicly about how unhappy he is and, in fact, does exactly the opposite. In short, the hypocrisy of the Prime Minister is enormous. Given that all those who have ever read the Constitution know what the Constitution says in the private sphere, they can probably be under the next government because time will run out in this mandate, and if the left political authority, we will be able to have an attack on the provisions of the Constitution which speak of private property. A small step, a private primary education that is compulsory — we know what the Constitution says about private property. I wonder if you'll take another step forward as you know everything else. In view of the fact that we have also heard today about how God forbid that some elementary school is different, it also shows how contradictory you are. In certain areas, we give a different space, and the family must be different, and when two religious schools want four other private schools besides what the Constitution and the law allow them, that is, that the state finances public programmes, you already have problems with this equality, let alone that some of these schools have a different programme. And no, Your Honor, there is no record of any fear of religious instruction in these schools! Believe that if such a proposal were to take place, there would also be problems in the SDS Group to support the case and very likely to oppose it unanimously, as we will unanimously oppose what you are doing today; that is, that you are giving a constitutional blow to the Republic of Slovenia, that you are giving a great constitutional earpiece to the functioning of the Constitutional Court and that despite the fact that the Constitutional Court is already a deeply inclined left, you have problems with this Constitutional Court. In short, I really don't understand where the hypocrisy of the left political authority will go, which is afraid of 0.5% of private primary schools just because they don't have the will of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u69	Dr. Mitja Horvat, you wanted to proceed. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Despite the call to try, since we are still discussing constitutional changes to keep a certain level, I do not think that just with my performance by my colleague Lisec, whom I respect and I know that he normally does not exceed the taste mark, has acted in harmony with what we have been invited to do. Therefore, as regards procedural matters, I would ask you to begin by asking the President-in-Office to request Mr Lisco to submit a document stating that the President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, has instructed his Group of Members to submit a proposal to amend Article 57 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and, in the event that he cannot do so, to make a public apology for the incriminating charges without any basis in his implementation. I expect this mainly because it is necessary to react every time it comes to such flooding, not to talk about what was before – I will return to that in my own implementation. As far as the procedure is concerned, let me say the following. In this National Assembly, we are very interestingly seated, but there are still few crossings, but if something has happened and we know what has been done, and if we also know – and I believe that respected colleague Lisec is very aware – with what position the SMC Group took at the beginning of this procedure on the proposal of the proposer. Of course, I beg you, Mr President, if you react in such a case where it is simply after all the fuel, whether it has a foundation or not. As well as the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre, please, if you can invite your colleague Lisca to apologize to us in public. Otherwise, of course, I suggest you give him a reminder of the words he has spoken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. From the very beginning, those who hold this meeting are concerned that the dynamics take place mainly within the agenda item. That's why I partly agree with you, and I hope your warnings come to true ears, Dr. Horvat. I just wish I had no answer to your question, and if the person you're addressing is going to answer that question, I'm going to give that option as well. However, I think it is right to point out in the third place that we are doing our best to stick to the agenda and that we are particularly respectful of each other, regardless of the different opinions we have. That is why I propose and to see that Mr Tomaž Lisec is already demanding procedurally to continue the debate, but obviously this has not yet been given to us. Mr. Tomaž Lisec, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you, Vice President. I suggest you tell me where I was being disrespectful, and then I'll act easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u73	I wrote it down: liars, hypocrites and so on. At this point in the agenda, I think [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Well, because you had the right to express yourself and I have the right to point out certain parts that I do not think belong to this Parliament. Mr. Matjaž Han wants a procedural one. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u74	Because I'm a proponent and he's going to take all the insults and write down carefully what anyone says, I don't hear any new facts. But for an easier understanding, Tomaž, what does the political past mean, because I wrote it down here, and I don't know what the political past means if you can explain to me that I'm gonna know what you're talking about, what you're thinking. Interesting, I'll say, a word relationship: a political past. But I'm interested in being a proponent so that I can prepare myself in the next response.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u75	Anyone else? I guess not. That's why I give the floor to Dr. Milan Brglez. Here, you have the floor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I will talk about the change mainly about us or myself, so that you will not have such a procedural problem this time or that I will not contribute in my practice to the problems that I have as chairman when I am up there. I will give four arguments why we are in favour of starting this process and what we want within this process, so that it is absolutely clear where and what we want to do with this matter. Firstly, in the Modern Centre Party, we cannot agree to a solution that would constitute an attempt to circumvent or distort any decisions of the Constitutional Court. This is a very principled position where I will make a few arguments. For us, the current constitutional and audit procedure is aimed at clarifying the relationship between public and private education, in particular primary education, but not at education and not at the abuse or annulment of decisions of the Constitutional Court. It applies to both which were actually intended for this purpose, both to that decision in 2014, which did not oblige the legislator to fully equalise the financing of private and public schools, but to equalise funding in the work which constitutes a compulsory public education programme. This follows from point 25 of the explanatory note. I do not give separate opinions; I only mention that because it was a majority opinion. The question of the obligation to co-finance private primary schools is not questionable since the 2001 Constitutional Court decision, where there are two facts which are important; that the State must allow private schools, since, on the contrary, it is no longer in proportion to the concept of a democratic society. That's one argument. Secondly, the State must co-finance private schools by ensuring that human rights can be effectively and effectively enforced. This is based on the 21st recital. It follows from these two that in the SMC we stand for such a change in the Constitution, which will not play either decision but will still clearly unlock and demarcate private and public education. I think that we are on the right track in this regard, this will be clear in the end, because I am going to say essentially what is the key point of this process for us. We are aware, however, that even when we are constitutionalists, not only when we are legislators, there is more than a god or a blue sky above us, so above us as the National Assembly, we have no free hands, we must respect our Constitution and respect the international commitments we have within this. So, the international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia, which bind us in an appropriate manner or with which we are still committed. Second argument. In the SMC, we are convinced that the amendment to the Constitution must not affect the obligations assumed by the Republic of Slovenia through binding agreements in bilateral relations. This is already provided for by the Constitution, Article 8, under which international treaties apply directly to us, i.e. ratified international treaties. It's not just legal, it's also foreign policy. Somehow we need to understand in fact that we can't go beyond what we say, okay, but we're not covered by the sunset servanda pact. It's out of the question, it can't be taken into account in any case, and for us, it's essentially an imperative beyond which it's impossible to go. An example of such an agreement is also the issue of private education or the settlement of this issue under the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters on legal issues. The first is that the Roman Catholic Church has the right, in accordance with Slovenian law, to establish and manage all types of schools, which is the first thing in the agreement. Secondly, it is agreed that Slovenia will support these schools under the same conditions as other private institutions. And thirdly, that the status of students in these institutions will be the same as that of those in public schools. These are the parameters, these equations that this agreement actually sets out. It follows from this that we will insist in the SMC on amending the Constitution, which, in accordance with past constitutional and judicial practice, will respect such international commitments that exist. Otherwise, these international commitments should be cancelled before they can be changed. To be very clear, cancelling then means waiting another year, at least for some, this is the usual procedure in this regard. In addition, I must make it clear that, at least for us, the view of the separation of the Church from the State, as set out in Articles 7 and 42 of our Constitution, which is to be read together, still means a positive separation and not animosity. It is so very clear on these issues. Third argument. In the Modern Centre Party, we are convinced that the amendment of the Constitution must not affect the obligations that the Republic of Slovenia has assumed by accession to multilateral treaties or which bind us under international customary law. What are the ones that stand out here? Article 2 of the first Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights is such, paragraph 3 of Article 13 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and Article 26 of the General Declaration on Human Rights, since it expresses customary law, at least in the international community, this has been adopted, and the discussions most often refer to the reference to Article 2 of the first Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, where it is very clear that the European Court of Human Rights has never decided that the State should fully finance private schools that are in line with the religious and philosophical beliefs of parents. This has also been found in the past by the Constitutional Court, referring, for example, to the 2001 decision, recital 14, that I will not read all of this. Therefore, in the Modern Centre Party, we are convinced that the current constitutional change procedure is in no way contrary to the provisions of the Convention and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. In the end, if we can't go beyond these frameworks, these frameworks must be respected. Moreover, at the point where our constitution is, we will respect what is in this constitution, where they set higher standards than those of these international conventions. If, in other cases, we could have referred to the same things at the point of human rights, we must have them here. It's simply because it's right, I don't need to argue much about it anymore. And the latter, which is a little more political argument than is essentially directly legal, although it also uses a legal vocabulary. In the Modern Centre Party, we do not want the constitutional audit procedure, as well as the legislative procedure, to reach out to the rights acquired, however we understand this matter. To this end, it must be appropriately defined as being, say, defined or prohibited in Article 155 of our Constitution. And here our views on financing private education can be different from what others say when we reach the legislative path itself. For us, the message that the State sends to the public by amending the Constitution is that public private education must be demarcated and unlocked, not that private education is undesirable and must therefore be punished. This is a key message. For us, there is a key idea within this which should be examined and addressed in the course of the constitutional audit process. It is clear to us that it is not yet in that form, but at least the idea is clear, and this idea speaks of public school funding or public education at all levels of education being provided from public resources and the law regulating the conditions and means of co-financing private schools or private education. Approximately this is what we want in the end and because we are talking in general and we are not just talking about basic education, we see that there is something here that is worth trying to see whether it can be within these frameworks that are very clear, and it is also clear why we should not cross them, because we are for the rule of law in such a different way and at this point we would stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u77	Mrs Jelka Godec has the floor to prepare Mrs Ludmila Novak and Mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go, Mrs. Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If Slovenia were a normal country, things would be different today. Today, not for 500 000 euros, or half a million, would open a branch of the Russian University of Cyprus, but would try to ensure that Slovenian children have quality education, and today in this country, Mr Cerar would no longer be Prime Minister, but probably someone else. At this point, however, I would also address, not play, but perhaps even question further to the President of the State of Pahor. Mr Pahor spoke in the case of same-sex weddings, expressed his opinion in the case of the Thompson concert, said of another matter, but had not yet said about the financing or non-financing of private schools or the quality of Slovenian education. Second. At the beginning of the term of office of our President, the President of the National Assembly, Dr Milan Brglez, said that he would resign or take full responsibility if it was found that the mandate had been revoked illegally. Today, the President of the National Assembly continues to sit either in his seat or presides over the National Assembly. So much for his moral words, morals, his signatures of the declaration of tolerance in Slovenia and cooperation in similar matters. Mr President, Prime Minister Miro Cerar, the most ethical president so far in the Republic of Slovenia, at least for me and his supporters, is like Henrik VII to me. in the 16th century. Henrik VII. is happy for Christmas, there around 1550, invited to his court Catholic rebels from York and promised them full support, an independent parliament and, of course, the continuation of their faith and not the destruction of the monasteries and Catholic churches. Six months later, he sent his servants and his robes over them to hang them on trees, later called the leaders to the Tower, or brought them to the Tower, and executed them there. Similarly, Dr. Miro Cerar went on one occasion when we applied for a change in the law on education or on the financing of education based on the decision of the Constitutional Court, to a private school of St. Stanislav, there he promised full funding, full support, and today he is setting up or sending a servant to destroy them in what they have. So, total absolution. All those, and today, I also refer to you to these words, namely, the government coalition, which fills you with words about equality, human rights, solidarity for all, equality before the law for all, including that those who carry in the heart only sickle and hammer, and that for the second few you care about, today, instead of advocating quality education, you will crush that little quality or school that gives added value to public education or education in Slovenia. You're talking about the fact that in private schools, schools are elite, that only those kids whose parents have money can go to private schools, and they can't go to private schools. I hope at least one of you ever went to a private school, among these kids, among these parents, and saw that that's not the case. There are also children who do not have money or parents who do not have money for schooling, and this is why they have school funds that finance school fees for these children. These schools are far from being elites, but there are many of you who have enrolled his child in elite schools abroad. I ask you here whether and when you have advocated that there be no elitism in public schools. That there would be no distinction in public schools between rich and poor children or parents. That there wouldn't be six kids in public schools who have iPads, iPhones and everything, and six kids who don't have cartoons, not even for bread. When you stood up for this, I ask you. When did you advocate differences in public schools? When did you stand up for the fact that primary schools would actually be free? I have a child who goes to a school in public school, a primary public school that is supposed to be free. I pay 150 euros a month: lunch, lunch, textbooks, notebooks and so on. Many of my siblings or schoolmates do not have 150 euros a month. No, it's not. They have certain subsidies and still do not have to allow the child to have everything that a child should receive in public school. And never and never in this mandate has the coalition, the government coalition, advocated a reduction of differences in public schools. No! No! Their problem is four private schools, their problem is 300 000 euros per year of extra money for private schools, of course the problem is that it is mostly Catholic schools. All of you in leading positions, so Dr. Miro Cerar, constitutional lawyer, Dr. Brglez, are still all doctors in the coalition who are, of course, doctors of law. I have to say that I don't get to know myself best in law, all these laws or word-wringing, but I can see when, in fact, these people are taking advantage of the fact that they're embezzling people and citizens. When they use to reverse what the Constitutional Court is talking about, or we all know well what we have done in education, what a public programme is, and that it is a public programme, and this is not about programmes that have gained public validity. Because if you want to start a primary school or have a primary school, you have to, of course, verify a public program. You verify the public program under the Basic School Act in full, compulsory and extended. And there's no difference. You'll never get an answer from the Ministry, please. You'll get a public service program if that's what you're going to do. No, no, no. It's a public program. If private schools did not meet the conditions of the professional council at the Ministry of Education, if they did not obtain a verification or have a recognised public programme, then the certificates they receive at the end of the year and at the end of the nine-year-old would not, of course, be public and would not be valid for further studies. So saying that private schools don't run public programs is a lie. They do, but it has to be said that, of course, they have extra hours, such as morals and ethics, something called that. But faith. This is one of the conflicts or an apple of the conflict where you are most vulnerable. You know, among us who defend this private education, as you say, we are not the ones talking about private and public education, we are talking about quality education, and those who are afraid of quality education are you full of mouth to defend public education. Gentlemen, I have not heard any arguments today that would endanger this quality public education. Not a single argument, not a single one! All that has been said is that they do not have public programs or your lawyerly-versed words, they do not have programs that have become public. If this, once again, would not be true, then today's certification of these children leaving private schools would not be public; they would not be, I will say, suitable for further education. They are. They are. You are disturbed by the extra programs that are available, and you are disturbed by a thousand 200 children, or a thousand 200 families, or perhaps a little less, who have children enrolled in these elementary schools. A thousand 200 children. For a thousand 200 children you do not think it is worth fighting for, or you do not feel it appropriate to have the same treatment as everyone else, it seems worth fighting for four same-sex weddings. You can wrap your eyes, you can move, but that's your weight, what you're fighting for, and where this ideology is. Here, in changing the constitution, of course, it's purely your ideology. At the time when we fought on the other side, of course, we fought in quotations, even for the Slovenian family, for Slovenian traditional values, you confronted us with fascists, today you wonder why a slightly harsh voice could have come from any direction, but none of us have considered any fascists or anything else. But the fact that you're deceiving me, I have to confirm. I worked in school, and I know what verification means, because I verified primary school myself. Lies that it is a matter of verification – that is to say, programs that are publicly valid – and that we are separating mandatory and widespread here, and that is indeed purely misleading. Check with the Ministry and you'll see what primary school verification is. If, of course, you change the constitution, it means that your morale has fallen in a thousand other cases, but here you actually are completely burned and it is better that you also had to keep quiet about it. And never speak again! Today is a very interesting day. The day after all or some of the coalition stood up for one migrant and not for a thousand 200 children. The day after the Prime Minister said yesterday on the day of the child, how he respects all children and wants to hear the voice of all children. Where is the voice of these thousand 200 children? He's not here. And the day it is established or opened at a large branch of Russia’s university, with all the recognitions, honors of the world’s renowned University of Moscow in Cyprus, for a few hundred thousand euros, half a million, it is likely that more money will be needed, the state or government proud of it, and the citizens are not proud of that government. So, there is some symbolism in this 21st of November, the day after the day of the child, when you were full of mouths, how you take into account the wishes of all children, how you want all children to live in equality of all material and goods offered by the Slovenian family. So you destroy the day after that if you want, as well as only a thousand 200 children, or the education of these children and their next, likely to want to go to school. The Prime Minister of the Government, who went to elementary schools, who attends confessionals and Masses in a church that is dominated by church dignitaries in a false way, is today sending his servants over them to destroy education in this sense. Once again, I would be more pleased to start talking in the National Assembly about quality education, to start talking about how to prevent or reduce the differences between children in public schools, which are very large. Those who have children in primary schools know the difference. Someone can afford a lot of things, others fight a little. I am very disappointed with this government and this coalition, which, because of the four private primary schools, thousands of 200 children want to change the constitution to separate public and private education. Look, this isn't health. We have amphibians in health, but we don't have amphibians in education. If you are already separating public and private education, according to you, I expect the next moment a severe separation of public and private health. That's a tough divorce! It'll probably be a little harder because you have all the doctors concessionaires or privateists. This is probably easier because you only have children in private schools abroad. So, I expect to continue this acute separation in health care. However, if you continue to do so, I hope that the end of this government will be soon and that people will finally see where the dog taco prays that we can happen in Slovenia in 1945 or somewhere when there was a strong nationalisation in Slovenia, when private property was a curse and God forbid it to happen in Slovenia. Because if we want to be a normal country, we also need to have competitive education, health care and everything else, as enshrined in the Constitution. To me, the Constitution is sacred, which obviously is not for this coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u79	Mrs Ludmila Novak has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Jean Mahnic. Here you go, Mrs. Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The fact is that a decision of the Constitutional Court has not been implemented for three years. And you are now changing the Constitution instead of implementing this decision. This is a good EUR 307,000 a year, which is about half the gross salary of the best paid manager in the country, whose companies are also partly state-owned. That's how much money it's about. It is not about financing private schools at all, but it is about financing the programmes visited by our citizens' children. The Constitutional Court has decided that these children who attend these schools with a public programme have the right to free education or a programme. However, we all know that what is additional, which is further financed by parents, is not to finance the state of buildings and all material frameworks, but to implement the programme. Here you want to share our children with first-class and second-class children and the first-class and second-class parents of these children. When it suits you, you say that the courts have to be respected – and so do I say – and their decisions when you do not like it, but you say that you need to change the constitution so that no one will abuse the Constitutional Court or interpret the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as the President of the National Assembly Milan Brglez said. Don't let anyone abuse interpretations! You abuse these interpretations because we have two rulings, two decisions of the Constitutional Court on various things that are just like apples and pears. And you're using these decisions and you're interpreting them differently! Therefore, I must say that I am sad or concerned that we are not dealing with the essential problems of education in this country, such as what the economy is warning us about, that they do not have a properly educated workforce for the particular professions that economies need, that our curricula need to be completely renovated to meet the needs of time and the changes that are fast at that time. So we're not talking about the essence of education, but we're talking about ideology. As Tabakovic said, it is about uniting the value system in public schools. So, we all have to think unitedly, and that's what was at the time of communism, we all have to think unitedly. We do know, however, that in these private schools, with a public programme, there are different teaching approaches, different methods. Thank God we have at least a few in Slovenia, that we also live in Slovenia, that we are not completely isolated and say that we should have other countries, and we do not even know it, nor do we want it, nor do we want it. That's sad. EUR 307 000 508 would require additional funding for 2015 for 100 % of the funding of the programme. Half the gross salary of the best-paid manager in the country!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u81	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Mr Jan Mahnic and Mrs Iva Dimic should be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u82	Again, good day! I would just like to respond to some of the inaccuracies that have been repeated today, and I will therefore use a little bit of specific stuff. Imagine that these are buildings, schools, that this glass represents a state primary school; a primary school built by the state; and this glass represents a private primary school built by a private person. We both give the same public service program to the two primary schools. Same public policy program. We claim in Novi Slovenija that the same payment follows the same programme, and you in the coalition say: No. Because of the construction of the walls in this primary school by a private person, the same program as in a state school should not be financed 100%. Let him who can understand. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u83	Reploko wanted Mr. Sasa Tabakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u84	I must respond to the implementation of the colleagues who have actually debated ahead of me. I repeat: in the country we have public programmes implemented by public schools and these programmes are fully funded. We have private schools implementing public programmes, and these schools have also obtained concessions and are fully funded. The primary schools we talk about do not implement public programmes, they are not the same programs, you can look at the Basic School Act. These are programs that have only acquired the standard, knowledge that allows the student to continue his education. These schools do not carry out the same programme as public schools, but various programmes because it is a basic motive for public schools to implement a public programme and private education needs to be understood as a complement to public education. It's some sort of basic thing. Second thing. The school system, as you defend it, because, if I put it very simplisticly, it would privatize the school system in order to balance all the programmes, regardless of who the founder is, and regardless of what kind of programmes they would actually be, it has already been exposed to Sweden in practice. He gave disastrous results because there was a segregation of children based on the social environment and also on the different values that children from the family brought to school. Because parents only chose, if they wanted, religious schools, and then even children within religious schools were aggregated to the rich and to the less wealthy if they wanted to, as if they were actually in places where such a school system had been established, people also ghettoized on the basis of which school they wanted to enroll. When we talk about the school system, we are talking not only about knowledge, but also about social policy. The country that introduced this was Sweden, as I said, the studies showed that the result was defeated, and I simply do not want to live in such a country. That is why in SMC we disagree with your principle of how you understand school policy in New Slovenia. That's all. However, the Constitution needs to be amended at constitutional level, as the importance of public and private education needs to be unlocked, not in a way that prohibits private education, because it also does not appear in the proposal to amend the Constitution, but also to clarify at the constitutional level what are the primary tasks of the countries touching public education and what are the ones touching private education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u85	Mr. Jean Mahnič has the floor. Prepare Mrs Iva Dimic and Mr Janko Weber. [[advertising in the hall]] I'm asking you to listen. Mr. Mahnic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Vice President. It is a pity that no one on the part of the Government is following this debate today; I believe it is very confusing. Above all, I would expect him to listen to this debate, as has been said many times in this Chamber, at one of these private schools, to say how embarrassed he is, how ashamed he is, how respectable the decision of the courts must be, and of course this matter will be settled. In this mandate, we have often listened to criticism at the expense of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in particular with regard to our attitude towards the rule of law, how we do not respect the rule of law, how we do not respect the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, respect must be earned. You can respect something, you can disrespect something, but when we get to the rule of law, when we get to the courts, it is essential that their decisions be taken. This, however, is the difference between the ethical government, between the SMC Party, which has been sworn in, how it will improve the reputation of the judiciary, how it will improve and strengthen the rule of law. In fact, the Slovenian Democratic Party is the one in this mandate that takes account of the rule of law in its actions, taking into account the judgments of the courts, and those who spoke the most in the electoral campaign in 2014 how respect for the reputation and respect of the rule of law must take into account the judgments of the courts, and today you are doing exactly the opposite. The latest case is what we have today, although it already has a history, in short, when the Constitutional Court's judgment was clear, when it was also a clear deadline for amending the law and adjusting it to the Constitution, you delayed practically two years at first, even more, and then went into a constitutional change and thus overpowered the Constitutional Court's will or will, but in fact their decision. The second case we had last week, unfortunately, is still ongoing when the judgments of the courts were also clear, and some went against the judgments of the courts and stopped the extradition of one of the asylum seekers because it was found that he was not entitled to this asylum and would be returned to Croatia. You have again trodden – I am talking about Prime Minister Mir Cerar, I am talking about the two members of the National Assembly who assisted in this – that despite a clear judgment, despite clear decisions, he was not delivered and the decision of the courts was overturned again. This is happening all the time in this term, if something is wrong with you, the Constitution is changing, if you are not candidates for judges by year, not here in Slovenia, I am talking about those we have sent in secret ballots or, rather, not sent abroad, you are rejecting them. We talked in particular about private schools owned by the Roman Catholic Church. It is really interesting to listen to Members, as they always say, I have no problems with the Church, I have no problems with faith, I respect those who believe, I respect the Roman Catholic Church, other religions and so on. We even listen — in recent weeks there have been many of these — to attend church, to read a book. In short, what is the purpose of these debates and what is the goal; of course, that people assume that our rulings actually have no objection to the faith, that they have nothing against the believers, but in fact, by doing so, that this should be the opposite, in the case of financing the private school programme, that this should be in the permanent debates in the State Assembly on the separation of the Church and the State, even though your goal is not separation, because separation is already now; your goal is the separation of the Church from the State. That's basically what this is about. And not to mention that they have already spoken and troubled in this House – blessings and so on. What is the goal, and what do you want with this law? In fact, you want schools that are optionally available only to elites. Elitem, who will be able to afford to pay for these private schools, those who attend these private schools today are likely to have been attended by a large group of Members, their representatives, their parents in a discussion where they wanted to present their problems. They were not rich people, they were not people who would make €210,000 by selling the shares of Pivovarna Laško so that they could finance these private schools for their children. These children will be deprived of the right to education in these private schools and will no longer have a choice. Because I can see that Matjaž Han resents me, but if I resent him or not, we are not political passengers after all, I have the right to have an opinion in this House. It is also interesting who the signatory is, in fact, in a mockery of everything, now I do not know whether it was the more awkward thing to read in the media, whether it was actually some kind of ridicule, or just an open game, what you want, what you want to be first-signed and what you want, given everything you can read in the media, surely one of the richest members of this national assembly, whom I believe has no problem affording your children the best education, no matter how much it costs in private schools. Matjaža thought that when I mentioned the shares of Pivovarna Laško, 100 % owner of M&M International, these companies have been doing well since colleague Han is the leader of the parliamentary group – 1.2 million euros in traffic in 2012, today virtually 1.6 million. They wrote Finances about it, wrote the portal Politikis I do not invent, I only make up what is really about it, only Mr Han knows and, of course, those who produce such things and also put them in the media, but I will conclude with this. When they ask me how it's possible that you're 27 years old and you're a conservative. The answer is clear. Unfortunately, I don't have enough money to be a socialist.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u87	Mr. Mahnic, let me just add a comment this time. At least the person you were talking about has no problem explaining where the property comes from. Mr. Franz Duck, you have the floor, you wanted procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Look, I didn't mean to advertise at this point. I heard most of the debate from the office because I'm working on other things. I'm going to start by saying that I'm solving the numinous issues individually, less academically, where we're from, where we're going, whether there's any divine power or not, which is what I'm dealing with, not in the form of some organised matters. I do not agree to such insults — and this is my course of action — that I, as a Member, am expelling religious communities from the country. We have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and as long as it is as it is, we are still a secular state. I even believe that Mrs. Ludmila believes what she's saying, and the SDS is what you're slapping at, because that's what the director told you to do. It's my procedure that they actually apologize to me. It's about proving some pennies, and that's an excessive spread of darkness, and I'm not actually going to go into that. You know, when Denmark lost all the wars, when it fell to this extent, today, for about two Slovenias, at least, as far as I know, the first one introduced a serious public education in Europe. What is happening here today, what you are talking about – I do not agree with Han here – is a first-class ideological question. This is a key ideological question whether we will have a public education – even colleague Tabakovic has indicated it – and it is without a connection that we are now turning into a different cellophane. We have some political obstruction that would like to recast Slovenia, even against what most believers want. You know, when we had this family referendum, a lot of people called me, and a girl from Prekmurje said, "Look, I've been going to church for 60 years; what they're saying is, I'm going to throw up." I beg your pardon. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Dr. Duck, we've discussed this a lot today. If you'll excuse me, I'd still like to continue reading and reading further debates, because we've already run this circle. I think that, despite the fact that we have really different opinions on the subject, we have only come almost to an end. So, Dr. Duck, I respect your opinion, and if you'll excuse me, I'd read all the names, because there aren't many anymore, so that we can get this debate to the end. Mrs Iva Dimic is first, second is Mr Janko Weber, third is Dr Mitja Horvat, mag. Alenka Bratušek, Matjaž Han and Dr Simon Kustec Lipicer. These are all of the reported debaters. I'm sorry, I let Mr. Jozet Tank go as a last resort. I give the floor to Mrs. Ivy Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you very much. All of these words, which revolve around education, are as said by Comrade Trček, this is actually a more ideological fight, which we obviously still have to be after so many years in Slovenia. I regret that you simply do not want to hear that we only want what everyone in public schools has — a public program. It is not true that all are equally funded, Mr Tabakovic, 85% are state-funded as a percentage, namely the Aloyzi Šustjar primary school, the montessori primary school, the Waldorf school in Maribor, Ljubljana. In short, it is simply a matter of misleading and disciplining through such meetings also teachers who would teach in such schools because they are not afforded equal pay for equivalent work. I can read again, the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Article 2 speaks about the right to education, and I quote, “No one shall be deprived of the right to education. In carrying out tasks relating to education and education, the State must respect the right of parents to provide such education and education to their children, in accordance with their religious and philosophical beliefs." We're in the 21st century. I don't know what you're afraid of. You want to discipline people to think the same way. And I think that man is much more than some thing, that he has his own thinking, his own rights, and that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u91	Replica, Mr. Sasha Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u92	I just have to replicate. It seems to me that I have been repeating for the third time today: the schools referred to by Mrs Dimic, these schools achieve the standards of knowledge or their programme achieve the standards of knowledge on which the child can continue his or her education. These schools are not equally funded because they do not implement public programmes. [[advertising from the hall]] They do not implement public programmes, but only implement a programme that achieves knowledge standards as well as a public school programme. They don't have any concessions. We have private schools with concessions and are fully funded. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u93	Procedurally, here you go, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have to get back to you, because by this day of this deceiving by Ambassador Tabakovic, it is enough. I know he's trying to show us with some calmness that we're the biggest fools and we don't know anything, but I don't know if Mr Tabakovic is listening. I am making a procedural suggestion that he should stop underestimating us and start listening to himself when he speaks of private schools that have a public programme, which means that this programme has not been invented by a private school, but is regulated by the state. If you want, let me put it even more precisely; two math teachers, one who teaches at Aloysz Schusthar primary school, and the other who teaches mathematics at Tom Brejc elementary school, two times two – both teach the same program. The only difference is – wait, Mr Tabakovic! – the only difference is that they pray one prayer before school at Aloysija Schusthar primary school. And that's what's bothering you dramatically. Otherwise, as for teaching subjects, mathematics, Slovenian language, biology, whatever you want, they teach the same as in state schools. For God's sake, please stop deceiving yourself, because otherwise please tell us what is the difference between mathematics, Slovenian and biology. Don't nod! Be precise and tell us what is the difference between these programmes in state schools and private schools with a public programme. You know, you're not being honest here, and if you want to be honest, say the difference that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Procedurally, replica Procedurally. [[…]] Replica to procedural. I mean, Mr. Tonin, there's no understatement. That's the least I can say, but well, let's leave Mr. Tabakovic. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Because Mr. Tonin has already challenged me. Comrade Tonin, does he have a Waldorf school? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u97	I'm sorry, it can only be procedural. That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u98	Well, then, in procedural terms, I'll explain my colleague Tonin's calls.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u99	But with a clear procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u100	My procedural proposal is to alert your colleague when he actually accuses me of misleading the audience, to be more precise in its implementation. Why? Because I come from the point of view that the Waldorf School, which has acquired the application of the public programme as well as the school which it is – or I will just say so. The Waldorf School has the same status as St. Stanislav's primary school. Is that right? Yes! If private schools do not carry out programmes that complement the public programme, then please explain to me, colleague Tonin, on what basis are we setting up private schools if private schools carry out the exact same programme as public schools. What, then, is the importance of private schools for parents to enroll their children in private schools because of their choice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. That would be procedural, you'll be in the debate [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Time-sharing. Procedurally, please, Mr. Mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u102	I, too, would like, in a procedural sense, to inform Member Tabakovic that he is accurate in his statement, because today we are saying – of course, this will then be known in the future – what will be the funding of individual programmes. We are only talking about 100 percent of the funding of the public policy, what you have warned about; it is biology, mathematics, Slovenian, what is in public schools, that is what we are fighting for, that is, being equally financed in private schools with a public programme. But what they have is extra, which bothers you, and what they pay for is special. And remember, they also pay for the building, the infrastructure. The additional programme they have will continue to be paid additionally, and we agree with that. All that bothers us is that when it comes to biology, when it comes to Slovenian, mathematics, which is the same in both schools, there is a difference in funding this program. That's unfair.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We are making an introduction to the constitutional debate, in fact, on the Article of the Constitution, not on the articles of the law that will still govern this Good. [[…]] Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor. Get Dr. Mitja Horvat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I think it should be pointed out in the introduction that the public network of primary schools in Slovenia is appropriate. Therefore, there is no need for us to introduce a system of 100 % private school funding. If the public network were not appropriate, of course this would be understandable. But because it is, it's totally unnecessary. And what we can preserve is some existing state that has been introduced. On this occasion, however, I would like to point out once again that the National Assembly has already expressed great concern about maintaining the public network of primary schools, even in the case of the Osilnica branch primary school. We have been able, together, to ensure that this school can continue working under minimum conditions. Because when he loses primary school, he loses a lot. Lose your soul, actually. Knowing that we have an adequate network of primary schools is a completely free choice of parents if they decide to enroll their child in a private school. They have the possibility of always entering it in public, and no one can limit it. So they can enter it in private under the conditions that this private primary school has and, among other things, these conditions are co-financing by private resources. This is certainly one of the parts paid by parents because they have decided differently than to enroll a child in a public school. This decision has also been measured, if I may say so, whether it has been judged in the Constitutional Court. In fact, the Constitutional Court has already decided that parents of children who have to pay tuition are not in an unequal position with those whose children attend public schools. The Constitutional Court has already ruled this once. In the second decision, it changed its own position. And, of course, their second position is not to limit public co-financing of private education. Sirs, if we are to apply this, then we must amend Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is a social state. If Article 2 of the Constitution states that Slovenia is a neoliberal state, then there is no distinction between public and private. But Article 2 is still written in such a way that Slovenia is a social state and the application of this decision by the Constitutional Court is virtually contrary to Article 2 of the Constitution. In fact, the Constitutional Court acted as a legislator and also as an arbitral decision 5: 4 of the Constitutional Judges indicate that this issue was also adopted by a minority or by a small majority in the Constitutional Court. Thus, as long as we have Article 2 of the Constitution, this cannot be applied, so the application of this decision by the Constitutional Court must be achieved through the amendment of the Constitution which we are taking through this procedure. This is the only logical solution we have at our disposal right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Horvat has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your word. I am sorry, however, that we have a bit of a struggle in the Chamber, unless, of course, the other Members are accompanying us, then there is some sense, because otherwise I am only talking about a magnetogram and practically myself. But, as always, I prefer to say it face-to-face. Where do I start, with everything we've heard today that needs to be responded to, simply so that it stays for the future? History is very simple. On the basis of the Constitutional Court decision, the Slovenian Democratic Party has submitted its requests and we have not agreed on how to amend the Education and Education Financing Act, which has never been problematic, and this remains in all the proposals that parents have the right of course – several times the parents have been mentioned as an important article, in particular in primary education – to have the right in three ways: either in public or in private schools or even at home to educate their children. Of course, for the Modern Centre Party, I must point out in advance that this has never been disputed for us, and as far as we are concerned, it is not this ideological struggle, whether parents have rights and whether children are given the opportunity to be educated both in public and private schools and at home. Which may surprise my forerunner, Mr Weber, and for the liberals too, it is very important to empower people, of course, especially young people, and here we are following clearly what modern Europe is also aimed at. In what way, in what forms? And of course, we will finally come to the text that is before us today and that will be decided in a few hours. For me personally, in this work, let me answer the questions or, rather, the obvious, where unfortunately I have not received an apology, I can pass on my personal experience and the President of the Government and the President of our Modern Centre Party keep an eye on this and, of course, wants the processes to be completed and to come to a solution. It's so far away from him being swindled. Anyone who closely monitors the processes also knows how they take place. Since that first meeting of the Constitutional Commission on the proposal tabled by the applicants, of course, I should certainly like to thank you, because, I admit, I did not expect the report of the special expert commission to come so quickly and, of course, I thank them once again for the efforts made, for the ideas, thoughts, opinions, and finally for the conclusions that enabled us to continue our work. [[…]] As you know, the proposaler did not stand at the crossroads of time, and he himself announced that he would continue to hold a round of talks, because achieving a constitutional majority, 60 Members or more, of course, is not an easy matter, and in this case interviews should be conducted. Let me express my regret at this point that there has been no harmonisation of the text itself between all the Members' groups, and of course I respect their decision, and I also understand the reasons which make them quite gruesome in today's session, which I have believed, although there are quite a number of opinions that this is an ideological issue, but when I talk about constitutional issues, we need a broad consensus and it is something that binds everything and everyone in this society. There is no indication that you will not misinterpret me, understand and process after that of course we have led and, as you know, we have also tried and the Ministry of Education has prepared a proposal, the Government has accepted it, we have got it into procedure and you know what its fate is. We know that the process of the adoption of the law is being held back, so that in this place I also reject the allegations that have been made, that it is misleading, that these are all those expressions that I would rather not repeat in this place, which have also been said in this regard. What can I say in my name as a liberal about the constitutional changes themselves? The question is whether we are really talking today, as was the case with more lively debate, about what is the essence of change, and whether it is really an ideological question or not. I know that we have all read this to each other in this Chamber, but if anyone is following us, let us see what the Constitution actually says and where is the essence of the changes that are being made here, if today we agree that the process for amending the Constitution continues. Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Constitution stipulates that education is free — a great gain, we are very happy and, of course, no one is in any way interfering. In this way, I may also answer the various indications and questions previously raised in the debate. The second paragraph, where changes are taking place, currently sets out primary education – I stress once again the word education! “Basic education is compulsory and financed by public funding.” Once again, primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds – public education. Nothing says what kind of education. “The State creates opportunities” – the third paragraph – to enable citizens to obtain adequate education.” Even in this, as I said relatively in the introduction on this point, these efforts are also liberals, if you want to be a little more precise, including social liberals, respecting the constitutional basis that Slovenia is a social state. So, empowering people with knowledge, because we believe that Slovenia is and can be a comparative advantage of the Republic of Slovenia and its inhabitants right in the knowledge society. That is why this is an extremely important question; therefore, it is possible for everyone to acquire adequate education and then use this knowledge in their further work. Now let's see what the differences are and where the question is whether we get to consensus or not. I regret little that today, apart from the introduction to the presentation of the position, Levica did not want to be included in the debate, but I would also like to hear it today; on this second occasion, probably also on the Constitutional Commission, which I believe we will continue our work. So, what's the difference now? As stated in the introduction, one important qualitative difference and innovation – instead of "primary education is compulsory and financed" – is funded by public funding for primary education, the current regime changes to the financing of public schools, I repeat, the financing of public schools is provided through public funding. How else is public school funding provided, if not from public funds? But, okay. So the first and the main qualitative difference is this: today we have primary education funded by public funds and, on the other hand, a proposal for an amendment to finance public schools from public funds. Therefore, as I have pointed out in the introduction, I understand certain efforts, including certain indications, issues raised during today's debate. So is the change in the constitution that we have before us today intended to ensure the special situation of public schools. Well, finally, something that is really new is that, under the conditions and in the manner laid down in the law, compulsory primary education in private schools can be co-financed by public funds. This is a serious addition, which, I believe, is worth discussing, and it is true to come up with an answer to this question, which has, in fact, also upset today's debate, and which may also remind us in this part of what has been expressed as an ideological question. I certainly understand the arguments and support them that we must not endanger public schools in any way. In any case, in support of my colleague Tabakovic, let me tell you how we also picture in the Modern Centre Party this enrichment of our premises' private schools. Unlike some who say that only competition can lead to better education, I expect that by enriching the school space private schools on both sides there will be an increase in quality. That is why I reject the evidence of any elitism, even if we have adopted it to date and have in law, as I said in the first place, laid down that parents have the right to educate their children in public schools, private schools or even at home. Therefore, I hope and expect that in further efforts we will be able to clear the text, which must be as short as possible in particular, it will not be too descriptive to come up with clear guidelines and a constitutional settlement of the issue, which has been more than obvious in recent years. We are making efforts to resolve the issue in such a way that, as my colleague Škoberne said, we can provide quality education for the next decades of the generation. Even more than just primary school, which is at the heart of today's debates and has been asked as a basic issue. There is also a need to talk about the vertical. This means very clearly because I believe that today we will prevail in reason, that, as representatives of the people today, we will allow the debate and constitutional solution to experience its final image in such a way that it will enable the future to be as good as possible for us and for our craftsmen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Alenka Bratušek, prepare Mr Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. First, let me say that I am disappointed that the debate on such an important topic as education is taking place in the way it is done: with falsehoods, with accusations and even with humiliation. There is no such language in the National Assembly. The talk was about poor children that with this change of constitution we want to take something. This is one big lie. All children, all, from the poorest to the richest have a place in public school, at home. Everybody. First to last. Unlike private schools where only certain children can be enrolled. They don't give clear criteria, they don't give clear criteria. Then we set up school environments for them, and then they'll have to take the kids to school, not the ones they want, but the ones they fit in there. So much for what the state is offering to poor children today. We're not taking anything from anyone by changing the constitution that's on the table today. Nothing, no one. And the Constitutional Court also found that, I think, article 86 of the Law on the Financing of Primary Schools is inconsistent with the Constitution. There are probably two possibilities — either you change the law or you change the constitution. Why are we now accused of choosing a strange, unusual path? Our task is that the Constitution is written in such a way that it is crystal clear what the state owes. Once again, we're not taking anything from anyone, and that's misleading. Secondly, poor children have and will always have access to public schools, unlike private schools. As a colleague earlier said that the child from, I don't know where, Celje or far in Gorenjska, from the hills he can't go to Ljubljana or Maribor and this elite school, if you want, is intended for only some. Yes, I agree, I agree. But let them do, in this case, specifically the church, schools in the countryside. But no, it's not worth it there, it's too expensive there, let the state take care of it. Just as I signed under the proposal of the Constitution, so today I will vote in favour of this amendment, and I have one goal before my eyes. This is knowledge accessible to all under the same conditions. But if parents want to, they have a chance, we don't limit them, that means the right to choose. We don't limit them. We don't close private schools. But the state is not obliged, taxpayers are not obliged to finance schools where such or other elites or elite children are educated. That's what you said earlier. That is all we would like to do with this change of constitution and write clearly. I sincerely wish that today we will start this process, that lawyers will help us to write it as we need to, and above all I want Slovenia to remain a country where all children will have the same access to knowledge. If you feel that public education is not good enough, perhaps we can work together and make this education better. If a parent estimates that a child can be enrolled in a private school for such or other reasons, he will have to cover part of the tuition. It was mentioned earlier that you learn to pay bills both in public and in private school. You can take her home, too. And we're paying our parents for this? We can take the kids to a school that we don't know – are we going to pay for it? No, we won't. Only these six schools are on the list right now, and a handful of children are actually visiting them. If the goal is to involve as many children as you call them, better quality programs, then the network of private primary schools, including those churches, should significantly increase. Someone already said, and I'll say it again: with what ended up in the bank hole, there could be a lot of rural church schools. We covered all of this with taxpayers and nothing. As I said, I would like to gather the required number of votes today, proceed with the procedure and clearly demarcate the State's obligation to be able to finance primary education in a private and private manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor and Mr Jože Tanko is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I hope, after my discussion, that I will not be retaken by reading the financials of a company that I have made clear that I have it. I want to say two things, though. We have a Waldorf School in Slovenia, which is in the public network and is funded by the state 100%. Then we have Alojzi Šuštar's Primary School, Waldorf School in Maribor, Montessori Elementary School, which is all funded by 85% of the public funds for the program that they introduce or give to children at this school. These are the schools. Now, however, we must be clear and accurate if we are to avoid fighting in such matters as Matthew and Sasha argued. The Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education and the Basic School Act clearly state what are private and what are public schools and how they differ according to the scope of the services they provide. And there are, ladies and gentlemen, differences between them. I'll just tell you a few differences and you'll be able to read the articles. Article 30 of the Basic School Act: "Private schools that carry out a programme in accordance with specific teaching principles may design a programme in accordance with these principles by providing only minimal knowledge." That's Article 30. “Private schools are also not obliged to respect the provisions on educational periods, so they are not divided by triads.” Article 33 of the Basic School Act. “It is not compulsory for them to set a school calendar, so they can set their own days of visitation and leave.” Article 36 of the Basic Schools Act. Then paragraph 37, which is also very important: “It is not compulsory for them to establish classes, departments and study groups.” You all know what the problem is when we don't have enough kids today. When one class is made out of two classes and so on. There's something else about these differences. Not to speak in public school when we have to have extended stay and so on and so forth. So the professional explanation why some funding is 85 percent and some funding is 100 percent is something else. Parliament is obliged to resolve certain matters. And even if it takes a change of constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u111	Here you go, Mrs. Jelka Godec, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u112	With all due respect, Mr Han, I know the Basic School Act and I would first like to replicate Article 30 of the Basic School Act. Article 30 of the Basic School Act does speak of private schools, but it does not speak of minimum standards. In the case of the subjects referred to in Article 26(2) of this Law, the private primary school programme should ensure that pupils achieve at least an equivalent educational standard as provided by the public school programme. He's not talking about minimum standards. He's talking about an equivalent program, Mr. Han. So this is your deception. So Article 37 does not speak anywhere about private schools or about the calendar or the design of departments. Nowhere. He doesn't mention a private school anywhere. I can read your article and I will. “37. Article (classes, departments and learning communities). The primary school conducts educational work by class, department and teaching community. The class is an educational and educational unit which, according to the subject and the curriculum, achieves the learning substance of one school year. The pupils of each class shall be deployed in sections, except for a small number of students of two or more classes, they may be assigned to one combined section.” Then he talks about how a small number can create a different form. Don't talk about private schools anywhere. “The standards and standards for the formation of departments and learning communities shall be laid down by the Minister.” Mr Han, I don't know what kind of law you're reading, where there's no minimum standards for private schools, and nowhere does it say that private schools can be formed differently and that this does not apply to private schools. Private schools are subject to the same standards and standards, private schools are also subject to the same treatment as teachers in payment classes, teachers are paid in the same way as teachers in public schools, so there are no differences. Private schools provide equivalent standards as public schools and do not provide minimum standards. True, I reiterate, as I said earlier in the debate, that private schools, in addition to equivalent standards from public schools, provide additional lessons from some other subjects that are not available in public schools. So, Mr Han, I would like to ask that if you are referring to articles, then give them in this context correctly, or, if you are referring to a certain article that binds to another article, then explain it also because it is not specified. Once again, private schools are certified primary schools because they have proven and are also implementing equivalent public programmes as public schools and not minimum standards. Minimum standards must be provided by each school, including a public school, so you can also establish or verify a public school if you provide minimum standards. And there's no difference. So in these programs, look, I already told you in one debate a year ago that I could [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u113	Three minutes, Mrs. Jelka.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u114	Yeah, now I'm gonna say three more minutes. That I can actually [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u115	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u116	So private schools [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u117	Mrs. Jelka Godec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u118	they have the same program as public schools. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Matjaž Han, proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u120	Jelka, I know you're in this legislation because you've been working with this, but I'm going a little bit slower, but Article 28 clearly says minimum standards. And then there's another article about private schools, paragraphs 33, 37. We just have to read other articles, and then we can come to a better conclusion. We can fight here now, but if we go brother all these articles, we'll see that we're on the same track in the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. You weren't very understanding. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u122	Mr Han, distinguish between minimum knowledge and minimum standards. The minimum knowledge is set out in Article 28 and not in the minimum standards. That's the difference. However, minimum knowledge must be provided by every public school in each control, every test, every question. Minimum knowledge, minimum standards – difference.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Get Dr. Simona Kustec Lipicer ready. Dr. Simona Custec Lipicer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! I don't have much time left, but I believe I'll be able to say what's important. In a way, it's a summary of this debate that we've been listening to, not just in this room, but actually in a broader social space, and I believe that, especially in the educational space. I will first come to the point of saying that I will support the proposal to continue the process of amending the Constitution, but because I believe that, above all, I will support the proposal to continue the debate. What did this debate show? She showed that obviously on paper we have written clear constitutionally accepted rules of the game, which each of us explains very differently. Not just in this area. We also have other social areas in our country that we have managed alone in this time since we have our democracy, our country, to drive away more by our own interpretations and preferences than by respecting the written, agreed rules of the game. The question of public interest and the question of public and private in our dear country is a big puzzle. And it's right here. What is the public interest in education now? I would like this to be the acquisition of the best-quality knowledge that children need, through the institutions provided by the State, because it is the guardian, the first guardian of the public interest. We have agreed that the rules will be different, that they will be adapted, that we will also allow those who have different desires, different views, to come to them through the process of gaining knowledge, that we have this enriching tolerance. But what happened? It happened that some of this [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate in which Mr Matjaž Han, the motioner, gets the floor. I conclude the debate. The decision on the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for supplementing the Constitution will be made today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, half an hour after the end of the 39th item of the agenda or at the latest at 16.55. If the National Assembly adopts a proposal for a decision, it will immediately proceed with a debate on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission and on any amendments to the position of the Constitutional Commission, as part of the rest of the joint time of the sent groups, the unconnected Member and the proposer. Amendments to the position of the Constitutional Commission may be tabled until the end of the debate on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission. I'm breaking up the 2nd item of the agenda. We're moving to 39. At the end of the day, this is a proposal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to prohibit the use of plastic bags, goats, crucifixes and other containers for encraced packing of food and drinkers and plastic utensils and microplastics. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted by a group of five Members and Members, with Mrs Violeto Tomić first signed. In order to further explain the proposal, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Violeta Tomić's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. I am pleased to present to you a supplementary explanation, which has received a great deal of support on the Committee. Waste plastic is a growing environmental problem, it may not be the biggest, but it is undoubtedly the most visible. The problem is plastic products for single use. These are plastic bags, glasses, plates and other containers for single packaging of food and drink and plastic accessories, which we have proposed in the recommendations we are considering today in Levica. The life cycle of all these products is very short, their use goes according to the principle of Use and discard. The repeated use of these products is neither possible nor desirable by the capital that manufactures these products. Plastic sachets between single-use products shall be released. On the one hand, because they are the most massive product of this kind, and on the other hand because they also present the biggest environmental problem. A few trillions are produced in the world each year, and virtually everything is swarming in the garbage sooner or later. They are recycled very few, when plastic bags come into the natural environment, the first problems cause already on land. Covering sewers, littering the shores, parks, and streets and endangering the lives and health of animals. Yet, they pose an even greater problem when they enter the world’s seas and oceans, where they swim on the surface and slowly fall apart. According to Greenpeace, a million seabirds and 100,000 sea mammals were killed annually by plastics floating around the world’s seas. This is a serious environmental problem that requires radical and immediate action. More and more countries in the world are deciding to ban the sale of plastic bags. In the European Union, Italy and France have so far adopted a ban on use. Many Member States of the European Union have decided to reduce the consumption of plastic bags by introducing specific taxes on plastic bags. The first in Europe did so in 2002 by Ireland, which by taxing 15 cents per bag managed to reduce the use of plastic bags in a very short time by as much as 90%. Similar taxes have been adopted in the European Union so far by Denmark, Germany, Romania and the United Kingdom, in addition to Italy and France mentioned earlier. Unfortunately, Slovenia is still not among these countries. After the adoption of the European Directive on the reduction of the consumption of light plastic carrier bags in April 2015, we were very optimistic that Slovenia would soon introduce a special tax or even ban plastic bags under pressure from the European Union. The government delayed the transposition of the directive into our legal order for a long time, but when threats of financial sanctions by the European Commission came to this in July this year, we were, to say the least, disappointed. The amendment of the Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste constitutes the minimum set of measures to reduce the consumption of plastic bags from those made available by the European Directive. This provides for measures which may include the adoption of economic instruments, such as pricing, taxes and duties, and market restrictions such as prohibitions where these restrictions are proportionate and are not discriminatory. Measures may be taken for all plastic bags, regardless of thickness. Slovenia first excluded from the government regulation the thinnest plastic bags, which are the most problematic in terms of environmental protection, the fastest to break and the easiest to recycle. Slovenia has not introduced specific duties nor has it imposed a ban on the placing of plastic bags on the market, the regulation merely provides that plastic bags on the registers must not be shared free of charge, which is no longer available in most shops today, and provides that the minimum price of plastic bags must not be lower than the price at which the sellers buy bags from the supplier. Because we believe in Levica that the Government has made insufficient changes to this regulation and because we believe that the placing of plastic bags on the market should be prohibited, together with them equally problematic and unnecessary plastic plates, glasses and other plastic containers for single packaging of pre-prepared food, as well as all cosmetic products containing microplastics, we have proposed a proposal for a recommendation that we are considering today. We are pleased that our proposal has received a positive response from most of the parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u127	The proposal for a recommendation was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Danil Anton Rance, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u128	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, as well as to representatives of the Ministry! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 34th session. 11. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit the use of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other containers for the single packing of food and drink and plastic accessories and microplastics submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, signed by Violeto Tomić. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. Members and members of the Committee had at their disposal a proposal for a recommendation, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Government and proposals from the amendments, as material for the meeting published on the website of the National Assembly. On behalf of the applicant, an additional explanation was provided by Mr Violet Tomić. She pointed out that waste plastic is becoming an increasing environmental problem due to a very long period of decomposition, which could last between 400 and a thousand years. The biggest environmental problem is plastic packaging in the form of plastic bags and disposable bottles, plastic glasses, plates and cutlery and so-called microplastics. Plastic bags are made of oil and natural gas. Already their production requires huge amounts of drinking water and energy, and then natural resources are consumed during their transport. The production process of plastic bags causes several million tonnes of waste material and several million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. It pointed out that individual countries had already begun to restrict the use of plastic bags in one way or another very early. Among them were those that were not even among the most developed, such as Bangladesh, which was the first country to ban the use of thin plastic bags in 2002. In 2005 plastic bags were also banned by Eritrea, Rwanda and Somalia and Tanzania banned the import and use of plastic shopping bags a year later. Among the EU countries that have begun to restrict the use of plastic bags and are considered the Republic of Ireland to be the most successful case since, as the first country in the world, it introduced a tax on plastic bags. It was followed by Denmark, which introduced a special tax for traders placing plastic bags on the market in 2003, and a similar measure was introduced by Malta in 2009. To date, similar measures have been taken to limit the use of plastic bags in France, Italy, Germany, Romania and the United Kingdom. She pointed out that, in the opinion of the Left Group, the amendments to the regulation prepared by the Government were insufficient and would not significantly help to reduce the use of plastic bags in Slovenia, as a result they would not help to solve the increasingly pressing problem of environmental pollution with plastic. Other plastic products, such as plastic glasses, cutlery, plates and containers, and the sale of prepared food on the one hand, are also unnecessary, since iron, ceramic or woodware can be used in most cases. On the other hand, there are biodegradable alternatives among which, as mentioned, woodware is also mentioned. It also warned her about the problem of environmental pollution with microplastics. These are small plastic particles that are less than 5 millimetres and more than 300 millimetres, and are particularly a problem when they reach the sea and are transported by sea for years and decades across the seas and oceans. Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the proposal for a recommendation was presented by Špela Cat Gustin. She pointed out that the Legislative and Legal Service had clarified the nature of the recommendation as an act of the National Assembly resulting from its supervisory function. The principle of the division of power makes it possible to recommend only measures falling within the competence of those national authorities to which such an act applies. As a result, it is important that the text of the recommendation is clearly and internally consistent, and in a particular case, it has been noted that there are more uncertainties and inconsistencies. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Environment and Space, Irena Majcen, pointed out that the recommendations of the Levica Group relate to the activities and measures already implemented by the Government. In the debate, several Members discussed this pressing issue. Various opinions were expressed, as well as their comments on the appropriateness of measures to reduce plastic packaging, including the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. At the end of the debate, we also adopted amendments to the title, then the amendment to point 1, the amendment to point 2 and the amendment to point 3. The amendment to point 3 reads: The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit the placing on the market of food and drink in plastic cups and plastic plates and other plastic containers for single packaging of food and drink, including the French model.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Ranc. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u130	The Committee then adopted the amendment to point 4 and voted, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u131	Mr. Rance, thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u132	individual parts or points of the proposal for a recommendation and adopted 2, 3, 4, 6 but did not adopt points 1 and 5 of the proposal for a recommendation. [[…]] In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated proposal for a recommendation, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The updated proposal for a recommendation is an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u133	For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u134	Dear Members and Members! The Group of Members, signed by first Member Violeto Tomić, submitted a recommendation to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit the placing on the market of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other containers for single packaging of food and drink and plastic accessories and cosmetic products containing microplastics. The government has proposed to prohibit the sale of plastic carrier bags, the sale of food and drink in glasses, on plates and other containers which are not biodegradable, including fittings, the sale of all products containing microplastics, and to prescribe strict rules for the handling of microplastics as a raw material for the further manufacture of plastic products, with a view to reducing the amount of microplastics to the environment as much as possible. The government has also been called on to actively advocate such a ban at European level. The fact is that plastic products are used for several purposes and their consumption will continue in the future. As a result of the current level of consumption, high levels of pollution caused by environmental pollution and increased the widespread problem of water bodies littering and inefficient use of resources. We have also dealt with this problem a number of times in connection with our sea. The Ministry of Environment and Space is well aware of the problems of waste plastic and actively integrates it into both normative and practical solutions. The Ministry's activities focus mainly on reducing the consumption of certain plastic products and on the management of plastic products and waste that have the least negative impact on the environment and human health. Activities cover a series of waste measures linked to actions and initiatives in other areas not necessarily related to the environment. In order to ensure that plastic carrier bags used do not end up in the environment as waste, consumers should be provided with as much information as possible on the proper management of waste. Consumer awareness programmes in general and education programmes for children play an important role in reducing the consumption of plastic carrier bags. Under the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste, the Ministry of Environment and Space will carry out an awareness-raising campaign for the general public in 2018 to help achieve those objectives. In carrying out activities, it should be stressed that these must be such as to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market, to prevent trade barriers and distortions and restrictions of competition in the European Union. Therefore, we believe that unilateral measures are not an appropriate solution and we agree with those who underline the importance of concerted action in the whole of the European Union. This Ministry of the Environment and Space through all its international activities advocates and will do so even more intensively in the future. It is very important for us to achieve a ban on placing on the market at the level of the entire European Union and not just at the level of one country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Humanity lives beyond its limits. This is not a new fact, nor is it a new fact that hedonism and the carelessness of a richer part of this world pushes on one side into poverty, and on the other, another, a less prosperous part of this planet into a global environmental disaster. The fact is that the healthy living environment of progress, despite continuing to be increasingly threatened and that only technological progress will not be enough to plague, although some are already giving up even the Paris Climate Agreement, environmental change, global warming, in short, everything that in the core is significantly more at risk of life than any other process we know. Aware that we must address both the issue of poverty and the issue of environmental protection seriously, despite the fact that we are aware of this globally, of course we are lagging behind a pace that would allow us to face both challenges seriously, which are still very interconnected. The symptoms of what we do wrong are also excessive or even unlimited use of plastic bags, and in some ways the symptoms of the larger challenge that lies ahead. The latter does not, of course, mean that addressing such small challenges is less important. On the contrary, in the wake of the fiasco of the great Paris Climate Agreement, it will be even more important in the future to try to achieve at least the minimum objectives that would allow us to reject or, as far as possible, to slow down the pace of global warming and change in a wide range of parts of the world not only for the human species but for the entire ecosystem as a whole. We therefore understand the complementary proposal as a step in the right direction, with a general assessment that we should probably allow ourselves to be more ambitious in the area of environmental policy and the prevention of global environmental change. But this is also one of the ways, so we will support the updated proposal for a recommendation from the Social Democrats, and we hope that this is not the last of a series of small steps that we can take together to influence the major changes at global level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u138	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit the use of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other containers for a single pack of food and drink and plastic utensils and microplastics. The Environment and Space Infrastructure Committee has adopted four somewhat complementary proposals for recommendations. In 2014, about 4.6 million tonnes of waste were generated in Slovenia, of which 59% were produced in manufacturing activities, which is slightly less than 2.8 million tonnes, in service activities 29%, that is almost 1.4 million tonnes, and households accounted for 12%, that is little more than half a million tonnes of all kinds of waste. All municipal waste came to 19%, which is slightly less than 900 000 tonnes. As a tool for meeting waste prevention, ensuring the proper management of waste and achieving waste management targets by 2020 and 2030, the Government proposed a waste management programme and a waste prevention programme. The main purpose of the operational programme is to follow the strategic orientations of European policies, which, while stressing waste prevention, give priority to waste preparation for reuse and recycling against energy waste management and to waste treatment before disposal, if and where this is the best option in terms of environmental protection, taking into account technical feasibility and economic relevance. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the waste management hierarchy by system, for the first time, waste prevention; for the second time, waste re-use preparation; for the third time, recycling; for the fourth time, energy recovery and for the last time, waste disposal. The Government has adopted an amendment to the Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste, with which it wants to permanently reduce the consumption of light plastic carrier bags, so that free plastic carrier bags will be prohibited in Slovenia from 1 January 2019 at all outlets of goods or products, irrespective of the thickness of their wall. Pursuant to the European Directive, very light plastic carrier bags intended for the primary packaging of fresh foods not prepacked are excluded from this measure. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal to eliminate plastic as soon as possible as possible as packaging due to indegradability. Advanced technology allows us to process natural materials in a way that provides us with quality and decompositionable packaging. It is said that an individual in Slovenia currently spends as much as 150 to 300 bags at the annual level. The environmental objective is to reduce by the end of 2019 the annual consumption of plastic carrier bags below 90 such bags per person and below 40 light plastic carrier bags per person by the end of 2025. In our Group of Members, we advocate a fair payment in waste disposal. So pay as much as you put it down or throw it away. We are certainly following the objective that we have written down in our programme. We will advocate the reduction of waste at source, their reuse, thermal use and harmless disposal and storage of waste residues. We will support projects that will already have, in their design, the minimization of waste and packaging produced and the expected bulk of their recycling. We will unanimously support the recommendations in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Vice President. Have a nice hello again! In the consumer society, capital in connection with its lacquers in the state authorities constantly convinces us that, as individuals, we will achieve happiness only by buying things they suggest or even convincing us that we need them. They assure us that as a society, we will make progress if we spend as much as possible. They force us into long-term workshops where we leave the most productive moments of our lives, to eventually squeeze out of us the excess value in the treasures we create and then sell them back to us at the price we need. As we sown upon them, our happiness is repeatedly searched for in the treasures we buy, even though the satisfaction we experience in this regard is very short - lived. That's why it's never enough. That is why we always need new products that we want through advertising campaigns are instilled in capital. Of course, this is never the way we are and we will never be happy. It's not their interest because happy people just don't waste. It would be difficult to find a product that better symbolizes a consumer society than a plastic bag. We never have enough. By the time we buy it, we know that we will be throwing it away the next minute and that we will probably be buying a new one on the next trip to the store. Plastic bags aren't made to be used for life. They break quickly, those in which we are packed with fruit, vegetables and meat are no longer useful more than once, even if they remain whole. In addition, while we carry them around, they serve as a free billboard for sellers. Since we leave most of our lives in factories, offices, shops, we do not have time for the most basic human functions, such as food preparation, dining in the society of people we love, value them, and share food with them. We don't even have time to wash the dishes, because any moment like this means less time than we can spend at work, where the capital from us prints out the last atoms of life. As a result, we increasingly go after fast food and drink served on plastic plates, plastic glasses, and other plastic containers for distribution of industrially prepared food. We eat with a plastic spoon because it is more economical for us in this society, so that most of our lives can then go on to eat with a silver spoon, although it is increasingly clear to us that most of us will soon be born and die in cheap plastics, while the remaining materials will be reserved for that 1% at the top. Because capital convinces us that if we are successful only if we are beautiful, healthy, smiling like some models or models of advertising developed by the fashion industry for our advertising purposes, we are constantly buying products with which we strive for eternal youth. More and more of these products today contain small parts of plastic, so-called microplastics, which after each use are washed into our watercourses and consequently at the end of the sea and oceans. In our insatiability, after increasing consumption and growth, we have polluted every corner of this planet with plastic. It's time to end this. That is why we have proposed recommendations in Levica that are being discussed today. The environmental limits of our planet are telling us to stop our consumption. Plastic pollution requires us to stop carefully dumping plastic products into our natural environment. The prohibition of plastic bags, plates, glasses and other containers for the single sale of pre-prepared food and cosmetic products containing microplastics is necessary because of the increasing pollution with plastic we are witnessing. But it also has an important symbolic message. If a plastic bag is a symbol of consumer society, then its prohibition is to say that as a society we are prepared to break with consumer mentality and resist the dictatorship of capital. By ban, however, we also report that we are prepared for new forms of socio-economic organisation, where production will not be subordinated to making the profits of the sand, but primarily to the needs of all people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u142	Honourable Presidents, representatives of the Ministry, dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members, we support the proposal for recommendations concerning the prohibition of the use of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other containers for the single packing of food and drink, and plastic utensils and the restriction of the use and introduction into the environment of microplastics. It is of paramount importance for Slovenia that there are as few such materials as possible, plastic bags, and we must not forget the bottles that are not specifically mentioned here, that everything is in the environment, since we are almost daily promoting Slovenia – a green destination. Remember, years ago there was a lot of this in the watercourses, in nature, a lot of this was then saved at the expense of volunteering with cleaning operations, but it is our view that this is not the right way. The right way is to raise awareness of children in primary schools that they will be able to act, that is, if they come up with this kind of packaging that they will, of course, come to because we live in a consumer society, that they will not throw away in an uncontrollable way and thus pollute the environment. We can't say there was anything done to raise awareness. Much has been done, but we have not yet reached the goal we have set ourselves. Like I said, awareness and awareness again. The campaign should be very targeted in this direction in order to deliver better results. Our opinion is that the environmental benefits introduced by Slovenia by the Environmental Tax Regulation for environmental pollution due to the production of waste packaging in 2006 have also not yielded the expected results. Consumers are accustomed to these duties, which are charged at the price of the product, and this eventually loses effect. It is therefore important, in the long run, that we actually come to the point of restricting the use of plastic packaging by stricter measures. We also support the proposal for recommendations because we believe that European Directive 2015/720 of the EU, which will enter into force as from 1 January 2019, will therefore be prohibited and free plastic packaging will be prohibited at all points of sale of goods and products. Here too, we believe that we cannot expect a long-term impact. We would like to finally join, as a green country, all those countries that have already done a great deal in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Danilo Anton Ranc will present the position of the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u144	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Representatives of the Ministry, Fellow Members and Members of Parliament! We have also actively participated in the debate on the recommendations in the Modern Centre Group, and I think it is an initiative that has achieved very great support and consensus among all parliamentarians, that we also express with this support our green Slovenia and the opportunities that this green Slovenia offers us. In the Group of Modern Centres, we are aware that plastic pollution is a major global environmental problem, so we support all the efforts that are being made in this direction. We have clearly seen that the Ministry of Environment and Space is working very hard in this direction in accordance with the European directives, but we have found that at this point a more active initiative in this area could be put forward and a recommendation for even bolder steps in this direction in the European Union. In the National Assembly, we talk little about the environmental problems our community faces. It would be more important to list all the frightening data of environmental organisations and all those who are struggling to live in a cleaner environment. We also believe that we are too ambitious that our actions should be even more appropriate here. Why, for example, would we import a very expensive granulate based on oil that is not our natural resource? Why not focus on the consumption of material that we have in abundance, this is wood that grows in our forests, and this is our oil, our domestic wood-based oil, we can talk about paper bags that we can produce from this natural resource. This would greatly contribute to the reduction of the carbon footprint, and could also create new jobs instead of exporting this indeterminate wood abroad. Here is one great opportunity to work in this direction and in this regard we also have a unique opportunity to replace plastic materials with natural materials. This time, of course, I am talking about paper and bags made from this paper, but not least about woodware and other articles that could contribute in their own way to a better environment and the use of our natural resources. The consumption of plastic bags differs greatly in the Union due to differences in consumer habits, environmental awareness and the effectiveness of policies adopted by Member States. Some Member States have managed to significantly reduce the consumption of plastic bags and in the most successful seven Member States the consumption level of such bags is 20% of the Union average consumption. Of course, this time we can also imitate some other countries that have taken a more bold approach to these measures, and some have even completely banned the use of plastic bags. In Slovenia, free plastic carrier bags will be banned at all outlets of goods and products on 1 January 2019, regardless of the thickness of their wall. The government has already adopted an amendment to the Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste, by which we transposed the European Directive on the reduction of the consumption of such bags into the Slovenian legal order. Appropriate measures are intended to address littering, change consumer behaviour patterns and promote waste prevention. In accordance with the Directive, the environmental objective is to reduce by the end of 2019 the annual consumption of such plastic carrier bags below 90 per person and below 40 plastic carrier bags per person by the end of 2025. In the parliamentary group, we support recommendations aimed at reducing pollution and replacing them with natural materials. We are particularly committed to using more wood and growing it in materials that are naturally renewable in Slovenia, which is why we support these recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Žnidar will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u146	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The recommendations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit the use of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other containers for packing food and drink and plastic utensils and microplastics are a warning to the Government or to the Regulation on the handling of packaging and waste packaging, which in practice does not address the reduction of the use of plastic bags and small plastic packaging in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the area of pollution of the environment with plastic packaging is very complex and wide, so it must be addressed through a systematic approach both on the part of manufacturers, users and consumers. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the amendment, which was drafted by the Committee on Infrastructure, to actively advocate at European Union level the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the prohibition of plastic packaging and the use of packaging from environmentally friendly materials. We will support the updated recommendations on environmental protection by preventing pollution with plastic bags and small plastic packaging in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popotat will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respected and respected! People drop between 500 billion plastic bags a year, and huge amounts of other waste plastic, which very often lands in nature, especially in the oceans. While awareness is already growing among people that bags and waste plastics are becoming increasingly environmental problems, even if we know that each bag needs to be decommissioned for about a thousand years. Therefore, for several years in Slovenia too, there is a day without a plastic bag created by the World without Bags initiative, which seeks to drastically reduce the use of plastic bags, especially those for single use. By reducing the use of these bags, it would reduce the negative effects on the environment, particularly on the oceans. In April this year, MEPs voted in favour of legislation requiring an 80% reduction in the use of the most widespread thin plastic bags by 2019. Thus, in our country, as of 1 January 2019, the ban on free plastic carrier bags, regardless of the thickness of their wall, will enter into force at all points of sale of goods or products. In the summer, the Government adopted an amendment to the Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste, which is designed to permanently reduce the consumption of light plastic carrier bags. We are also aware of the damage to microplastics in the Desus Group, so we supported the amended recommendation on the parent working body to propose to the Government that it start at European level to prohibit the placing on the market of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other containers for single packaging of food and drink and plastic utensils and microplastics. The Government should also lay down other rules for handling microplastics by means of sub-legal acts, with a view to reducing the amount of microplastics to the environment as much as possible. According to our assessment, the Government should continue its efforts to link waste action with other actions and initiatives, including measures to reduce land debris, to ensure sustainable plastic planning and to reduce the use of microplastics in products. Public awareness and changing behavioural patterns are also extremely important. In the Desus Group, Slovenia would be very pleased to find itself in the society of countries that have completely banned plastic bags as soon as possible. Among these countries we also find Kenya, Rwanda, Mauritania and Morocco. Kenya has imposed even very high penalties for those who violate the prohibition on the use, manufacture or import of plastic bags. The lowest penalty is €16,000 or a year in prison. Even among our consumers, the awareness must be broadened that each individual can reduce the number of plastic bags by bringing a bag with him, by using bags of goods or paper bags or by buying them into cardboard boxes, which are often packed near the store. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to see that there is already a great deal of environmental awareness among consumers, as more and more people are rejecting the plastic bag offered. Finally, let me reiterate that the Desus Group will support the updated proposal for a recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the points of the supplementary proposal for a recommendation and on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20 November 17. I am putting to the debate the second point of the complementary proposal for a recommendation and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Please sign up. Mrs Violeta Tomić, the proposer, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must first say that I am extremely pleased that we have come to consensus in this debate, that something really needs to be done about plastic, which is an enormous environmental problem. Some scientists say that we have an age that will be called the age of plastic. Just like we had the stone age, we had the iron age, the copper age, the plastic age is coming. Only this one won't go away, it won't go away on its own, because, as we said, almost a thousand years of plastic decomposition, none of us will experience it, while we've actually been using it for about the last 50 years. For 2 million years, mankind has survived without this material, and today it seems impossible for us to do so. That is why we made these recommendations, but we added two amendments to point 2, where the word “use” is replaced by the word “application” and the word “vegetation” by the word “transport”. It is said that the prohibition of placing on the market. Why? Because we don't want to stigmatize the users of these bags, but those who will give these bags, if for free. In point 2, we replace the word “materials” and add the words “and immediately approach to the implementation of these policies in Slovenia”. The amendment here advocates that the Government, while advocating the prohibition of the placing of plastic carrier bags at the level of the European Union, implements such a ban in Slovenia before, for how we will support something at the level of the European Union if we do not take care of it ourselves. The legal basis for such a prohibition lies with Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, in the Council Directive of 29 April 2015 amending the Directive on the reduction of the consumption of light plastic carrier bags, which provides for measures which may include the adoption of economic instruments such as pricing, taxes and levies and market restrictions, as well as prohibitions where these restrictions are proportionate and are not discriminatory. This would follow the example set by France and Italy, which have already introduced such prohibitions. So much for the presentation of the amendments and I want you to support amendments that are of a more substantive nature and other more technical nature as well as our recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. I will focus more on the debate on the recommendations than on the whole. I have put some emphasis on myself in the position of the Group of Members, perhaps someone will say that I repeat myself, but it is better to hear a good initiative repeatedly, to sit on someone's ear rather than to go over some of the opportunities our country has. I was particularly surprised that some countries, I will just count them, Bangladesh, Eritrea, Rwanda, Somalia, Tanzania, have some sense of meaning and have a negative environmental impact on our healthy environment. And I wonder why we should not follow this example in Slovenia, especially because some countries in the European Union, such as Ireland, Denmark, Malta, France, Italy, Germany, Romania, the United Kingdom, have already started working in this direction. I also commend the ministry's work, which, in a web of different circumstances, sometimes even lobbying, is faced with various pressures of one and another interests. Here we collide with the plastics lobby, the oil industry and others, and all initiatives on measures to improve the environment in a way that reduces the use of plastic materials and derivatives based on oil that pollute the environment, reduces our environmental living conditions and causes greenhouse gas emissions. We in Slovenia have been very well aware of these issues at the principal level, we have created smart specialisations, a circular economy and other strategic measures that are oriented in this direction. By assessing that we are on the right track, but, of course, by these recommendations, we are further accelerating the implementation of these measures in the area of reducing environmentally harmful materials in our everyday life. Let me repeat, we are in the country that offers us this natural resource in hand, which could be used in particular in a pulp and paper factory, I am talking about the Krsko factory, which unfortunately no longer works, which has annually converted a million cubic pounds of wood into paper that could be used with an adjective. In particular, in this case also for bags. And here is one strategic systemic measure that would produce multiple effects across the chain, bring additional jobs and reduce energy and other dependence on other oil-rich countries. We have wood on the palm of our hand, let us use it and prescribe it, unless it goes otherwise by example, but sometimes to move the matter forward more quickly, some concrete action is very welcome. From this point of view, too, I would focus mainly on putting this measure in place with us as soon as possible, since other countries in the neighbourhood may be waiting for this opportunity and do not have these natural resources. Of course, wood is being imported from us, today we are exporting about 5 million cubic metres of wood that could be used to make paper and thus have more macroeconomic benefits and all the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. First of all, thank you for your support. Secondly, I agree with what colleague Anton Danilo said before me. When I listen to this debate, I remember one often forgotten sociologist, a sociologist born in Vroclav, who survived almost the 20th century, Jewish origin, some say he is German, others say he is an English sociologist, this is Norbert Elias. Norbert Elias is known primarily for his key work, which we translated into Slovenian as a process of civilisation or, if you want, a process of decivilisation. We are actually talking about a matter that could be referred to as the "profoxar" process of recidivisation. We must now somehow be aware of these facts, which you Googled somewhere, read. I had already asked the Government about some measures higher than the higher study which analysed the content of microplastics in the organisms and also on the selected beach pattern if I said so at home in the Adriatic. In particular, only the analysis was carried out in Slovenia, where it indicated some relatively disturbing data. Now, most of us probably don't even know until we're taught that every time we brush our teeth, every time you're not just ladies, even pretty people like Ferlug do facelifting and so on, we're essentially getting into circulation and watery microplastics. But when we touch on these matters — I consider myself a non-marksist non-munist leftist, a little healthy peasant, and beyond pragmatic — we need to ask ourselves two questions. First, Europe commands us, Europe tells us, by then we will have to blah, blah, blah and then whatever government it will be, we will be waving something, it will be hurrying, the end of the world, up and down, and someone will develop the technology that will sell it to us. And he'll be pulling profits abroad. This is the difference between GDP and NNP. GDP measures where “rinta” is used to pay too little and NNP where profits go. And here we have some big problem with MGRT, which is supposed to be the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, and to a large extent it is not. After all, as long as I listen to this, I am reading here the Proposal for a Law on Promoting the Development of Tourism, which hardly mentions “greenly I love this green”, although Slovenia should brand, I don't know, a triple or a quadruple dose of green and in fact put this story into place. Excesses, however, work in some societies that think themselves, in the way that you have some functioning FURS and some relevant tax legislation that will penalize you if you want to be transcendent. But not penalize the poor, but the one who has the opportunity to act differently and choose between alternatives. In Maribor, I'm famous for being a person who is crazy about this, but then some shop in Spar, and probably somewhere else, most of all, I go to Spar, says that she would give it to me, but then the boss will be suffocating her there if I don't get any things wrapped in some plastic bag. In some democratic systems, what they are supposed to be, we must also consider an alternative in the light of a ban and something that they do not teach or teach, and all students sit on their ears, on economic and related colleges, and also on certain national economic elements. The original meaning of the word "oikos", we know what it is. In this light, it seems to me that the next government must establish elements for some alternatives. After all, these certain plasticists can also be “moved” to do some other and different load-bearing elements of packaging, which is, after all, a responsible economic policy. I think this is a step in the right direction. Of course, not for the EU's sake, but for our sakes, we must think about this future and which are alternative technologies, which my colleague Anton Danilo has also made very well. Just because we're relatively small doesn't mean we can be stupid. I'd stop at that point. Of course, we have local knowledge that can make alternatives, but often this knowledge exports somewhere abroad, because if I say so in a language that is understandable to you, it is not from the right quotas. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I'd like to get involved myself. I was pleased that this topic came to the committee once again, because I have discussed several times that we have “twilight tourism” in Slovenia and we cannot eliminate it in any way, despite the fact that several waste management centres have been built throughout Slovenia, but they are not evenly distributed throughout the country. Those who are built are too large, for the past time when politics was such that most waste is to be disposed of. We in Dolenjska have the capacity by new programmes or by European policy for about 400 years, and I do not know what will be delayed here. But we also have a waste management system, such as collection itself. We know that this 2015 operational waste management programme favours first reduction at the source of waste, agents and here is today's topic. In the total amount of waste, I will only talk about households, because also the most concerns plastic bags, and also about different stores, is about three quarters or two thirds to three quarters is packaging. This packaging is now being collected at the source where they have collection from door to door, where each household is already separated at home, and this is very easy to control. This is controlled by the municipal inspectors, also sanctioning if necessary, and then this packaging is collected in the collection centres which the municipalities have and from there certain companies take over the packaging. People get paid packaging. Where this is not the case, where waste collection is cheaper, because collecting into some common containers is for 4.5 households, and then there are also ecological islands where glass, plastic, waste is separated, and there control is almost impossible because some simply do not stick to it. How does an inspector know if he puts 4 or 5 households in the same container, who put them off incorrectly so he can sanction them? Usually containers so gawk from one collection to another, and at least half of the packaging is found in these mixed municipal wastes. Picking from door to door to control the source, but it's a little more expensive, and then it's cheaper to move on. But if the causer also pays for the packaging that he puts in mixed municipal waste, those who deal with it have more, they can charge more. But that's not fair. This programme also states, and the European Directive says, because it is a public economic service, a service that must be charged to the cause of what is causing it. Not just so flat. I looked at the billboard when we were collecting, and there were a few households that charge me 97 kilos of waste a month. I know we don't put a quarter of this waste away for a month if you're already sorting properly at home. And that's not fair. This is also what the European Directive says. We should have a system in place so that it doesn't happen because some people pay too much. In case it goes from door to door, there'll be less waste. If there are fewer, public economic services cost so much, they'll be more expensive. Once they are more expensive, people will work harder to sort this out and cause as little waste as possible, which is in line with European policy. However, the question is whether it will be bearable because such a case has already been in a European country for some years. More expensive than waste, there were fewer. In the end, they were very expensive, but they were gone. And then what about a system like this? This is the aim of the European Directive and our programme to achieve this. Then how will the system last? Who's going to fund it? Who's gonna pay for the network? Because the problem is the network. That's why I was happy because those expensive waste management centers that we put in the space ten years ago, I don't know where they were in Slovenia, I don't think there were 14 of them, they didn't all live because someone had to pay for it. The investors were congregations, for example, on behalf of several congregations. This was paid by citizens with bills. And some pay that hard. At that time, we proposed, while in opposition parliamentary groups, that waste management centres be transferred to the public economic service at the level of the country, because we do not have the provinces to resolve this landscape. We now find that this could be resolved not at the level of the provinces we do not have, but at the level of the regions. In order for the Eastern and Western region to have one large processing centre and, say, an incinerator, it is simply not. However, this will have to be resolved in due course, although we are still very good in Slovenia with respect to the European average. However, I think it would be good for the Ministry to have a professional service that would in some way direct the municipalities to the system itself to function, and this gathering would continue to be processing, processing and disposal in the sense that these wastes would be as low as possible and that for individual households it would also be as low a cost as possible. Because they say that the one who spends little is rich, not the one who earns a lot. When we figure out what households get for all three public economic services, waste, water supply, decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters, this is a pretty big amount, especially for those with lower incomes. That is why I would suggest that the government or the ministry devote themselves to this because it is not good to watch congregations accuse each other and blackmail each other and not know what else is wrong. That could be arranged. I think that we Slovenians are already following this and we can really be a lot of country examples in sorting ourselves, but certain systems don't allow us to go any further or to follow that goal until 2025, 2030, when nothing should be delayed. Six countries in the European Union are already doing nothing and should follow this. Because we don't have big cities, high concentrations of residents, but more rural, where biological waste can be done through composting and the like. We could also use it either by farmers or in agriculture for some other purpose. We will support this and welcome this path as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Ferruga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State and co-workers and everyone else! It is clear to support such a very corrective and constructive proposal made by the Left. Thank you, Violet. I think such proposals are absolutely welcome to us as well. Not only for the protection of nature and all these other matters which belong to me, but also for the sake of the promotion of Slovenia as such as the green state. If so, it is a logical step forward for the government or the competent ministry to act proactively on this issue, which is problematic. I think we're all aware here that this plasticization of our planet has exceeded all healthy limits. Various studies are, there are various documentations that indicate that this plastic is actually the soul of nature and everything. Now here we always have two things. This bag business, it's money and business. And on the other hand, it's recycling again. It's always in a kind of commotion and opposite at the same time. However, if Slovenia, as one such green country, as Mr Ranc has also mentioned, is based on the forests, on this wood chain, on everything that enables us with all these semi-manufactured products, waste materials that can be produced from this forest, which is one of the main raw materials, and these are also paper bags among the others, we could point out the right direction and the right path. So we could be one of those so-called trendesters that we also start to show Europe how one small country realizes that, at the end of the stage, plastic is not only because of decomposition, but also because of all of these chemicals used in making it, it's harmful and it's better to use a natural matter. Okay, because here we can also start a debate on how much chemicals are then put on paper bags and so on and so forth, but I think it's somehow more decomposing than this, I'll say, plasticization. There is absolutely another matter that we may have slightly forgotten in all this debate, which is that the Ministry of Education should also be included here. It is said that children would have been taught from a very young age that it is not only necessary to recycle, not only to live in some kind of consonant with this nature, but at all as a small country that cares for its environment, I think it is very important that children, through these cleansing actions and all of this, are shown what relationship they should have with nature and how one smart country, the country in question, the country in question, behaved as a green country, that we can then show from generation to generation that we care for it. I think that we have here the principles of one positive debate, Mr Lah has also gone very wide with waste and all that, yes, here are opening up the themes for each other. But I think it's essential that what Violet suggested is that we focus on these recommendations coming to the government, that the government and the competent ministry see this, and that they try to do it with some, I will say, small steps that will be important for the future, somehow upgrade everything that we all want to live in a natural, healthy environment, and that we are not so dependent on this plastic that really chokes us. So I absolutely support this proposal, and I hope that the Government or the competent ministry will take it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u160	Yeah, I'm glad to listen to you, 'cause we're all picking up on this problem. Just because we don't see it in our immediate vicinity of plastic and garbage doesn't mean we don't waste it as a society. It means we have a better cleaning service. But this plastic we're using, it's going somewhere. On the surface usually masses the drains, which also makes us more vulnerable to floods, many animals replace it for food and then die in torment. And worst of all, when an animal dies, plastic in this animal remains. We have these parliamentary groups of friendships with different countries and I am the President of the parliamentary group of friendships with Switzerland. Switzerland, which is our model in many ways, knows very well what the problem of plastic is, so here in the fusion castle about six months ago she had an educational exhibition entitled The Final Station: the Sea. In Switzerland they also know very well how to solve this problem and how to punish or regulate waste separation. If I didn't say, say, what kind of Hong Kong would have happened if we'd been out there? And there, you know, I'm just going to show you turtles, like, most get involved in this because many animals trade plastic for food. When birds eat plastics, the birds are not the only stupid animals, because they have small heads and small brains, in India they find as many as 35 kilograms of plastic in their stomachs, and these animals die in severe pain. I once traveled across Albania, and there I saw piles of plastic eaten by horses. I don't want to think about how those horses ended up. And I'm not going to say now that this country is in a better or worse situation, but that's a fact. We, for example, who are more developed, should be lighthouses in the event of solving this problem, for each year we produce some trillions of plastic bags. Billion is 10 to the 12th, it's 10 to the 12th. That's terrible information. And we use it all, but it doesn't break down in thousands of years. As we know, there are two continents in the Atlantic, as large as two Americas. Where are we going? We'll suffocate in plastic. This plastic is then shredded from such large pieces into smaller and smaller particles, but because they are smaller and we do not see them, they are no less dangerous. Then they call it plastic soup when it's getting smaller and smaller. And when they're so small that we don't even see them, the problem isn't even solved, the problem just begins. For at that time they absorb the shells, the fish, and in the end, however we turn, they all land in the flesh of man. Here in the long term, I do not see any option without really radical solutions that we will survive as a civilization. I don't see it because with plastic that's proven harmful and toxic to our body, we're going to strangle not only the planet, but we're going to disable the lives of the craftsmen. And as much as we love our children, however we look forward to their grandkids, we do not use such conduct to prepare them for survival. Therefore, the European Directive has also decided to provide for measures to significantly reduce plastic. Unfortunately, the transposition of the directive into our legal order reveals that changes have only been adopted in order to adapt our acquis to this European directive, we have not gone any more ambitious in any way. The deadline for transposition of the Directive into the internal legal order was 27 November 2016. On 24 January 2017, the European Commission issued an official reminder to Slovenia because it has not yet been notified of measures ensuring the complete transposition of this Directive, in particular by excluding plastic bags as carrier bags with a thickness of less than 15 microns intended for the primary packaging of non-prepacked foods. Now we know that in the fruit and vegetables section we can get these free thin bags, and at the cashier's office, the trader is already asking us if we want a bag. The great answer is no, because we have a basket or a canvas bag with us, something we can use more than once. But what happens? People just take or take a little more of these thin plastic bags because they know that there will be no more free cash. And that's all we've achieved with what the ministry has now somehow implemented. In addition, the amendment of the Regulation does not introduce a specific duty on plastic bags, but merely provides that plastic bags on cartons will no longer be available free of charge and that the selling price of plastic carrier bags must not be lower than the purchase price of this bag, which is actually funny if we think that these shopping centres are as high as possible, the cheaper they get these bags because they buy really huge quantities. In the light of this fact, it is also very funny to note from the Ministry's representative that the Republic of Slovenia, with regard to the prohibition on the placing on the market of certain products more than for activities at the level of each Member State, advocates for prohibitions at the level of the entire European Union and therefore always supports such activities and measures. So, at the level of the European Union, we will stand up, but obviously not at the national level. The government is now somehow sworn to a consumer awareness measure. That's fine, of course, but prepare some billboards, some campaigns, some round tables. Last week we had a round table on this topic and we invited quite a few experts, including from the Chemical Institute and the Institute for Waters of the Republic of Slovenia, and we heard a lot of interesting things. Interestingly, we do not even think that microplasty is part of the cosmetic products we use every day. As soon as we open our eyes, we begin to pollute our waters irreversibly. We brush our teeth with toothpaste, spit out, and there's a lot of micropieces. Also in cosmetics. Unfortunately, we did not receive support for this recommendation, for probably many of you did not even realize that this microplasty in cosmetics is actually the problem. In this awareness, we usually convince those who are convinced. Such dedications come from those who agree with us, and I agree with my colleague Ferlugo, that this awareness could somehow be passed on to the school system more easily than the youth, because somehow we all educate our children in the circle of our home and it depends on how well the parents are aware and what message they will pass on to their children. But it is also very important at the legislative level. Now it depends on what one parent will do, and how, for example, the one putting the matter on the market will react. If we look at the parties. Some parties mix with a huge amount of this plastic, from these plastic plates, utensils, to a glass that we get for, say, beer every time. Good practices are when we see that some initially offer a five-euro bail glass and can, although free of charge, pour drinks into these glasses all night. But five euros is not so small and one wants to get it back somehow. In short, our environment is burdened to this extent that we can no longer afford to do what we have done so far. As we said, there are billions of pieces of plastic in the Pacific Ocean per square kilometer, which is more than a plankton. This problem is getting bigger from day to day. These two islands of waste, called Great Pacific Garbage Patck, are two times the surfaces of the United States continent and consist of about a hundred billion tons of waste. I can't even imagine it. We have alternatives. As my colleague Ranc said before me, we have absolute alternatives and Slovenia is one of the most forested countries in the European Union. The Slovenian state forests have also committed themselves to developing wood assortments. Given that by 2020 the European Union will somehow ban the placing on the market of plastic accessories and packaging, it would be good if we were prepared to do so. And what's more beautiful than replacing plastic with wood! We could get a lot of jobs here and unload our environment. By 2020, it will be completely banned and must contain at least 50% of biodegradable materials by the end of 2025 and 60% by the end of 2020. Well, at least we could predict here because we know what this is about and we'd be ready. The United Nations has also prepared for us, the United Nations Environment has prepared a whole Toolkit for Policymakers, there is. Equally responsible politicians and responsible policies do not need to invent hot water in this area, because research is done at the level of the European Union and at the level of the United Nations. Therefore, I must say that on the question asked by my fellow Member, Mr Trčko, when the Ministry replied that it was necessary to carry out some more research on this, there is simply something that we, eco-socialists, cannot buy. Because research is done and who else is supposed to trigger this debate in the National Assembly, like us, the Levica, who are eco-socialists and so on, the only green party in Parliament, and we feel this as our commitment and as our duty. If France could have done so and is also subject to European Union law, then we do not know why we should not. Interestingly, studies on the effects of microplastics have already confirmed endocrine and reproductive disorders in smaller organisms, and currently people with food consume some 10 microplastic particles per year and predict that they will soon increase to worrying 4,000 particles per year. In Slovenia, the Institute of Waters conducted research on the concentration of microplastics on the Slovenian coast in 2012. We can pick up bigger pieces of plastic. We had an action. Let's clean up Slovenia. Civil society has done its part, and I am now happy that it will also do its part in politics. Small particles, which are called microplastics, are said to be the only thing we can do to prevent these large particles from coming into nature, because under the influence of the sun, water and the like, they decay into ever smaller particles. The average concentration of microplastics found on the beach in Slovenia is 177.8 particles per kilogram of dry sediment, while for example for the Belgian coast and even in ports it is less than 166.7 particles per kilogram of dry sediment. In Singapore in Mangrove only 36.8 particles per kilogram of dry sediment on the banks. This data tells us that in Slovenia we are not as clean in the environment as we may at first think, but that we need to follow research. The United Kingdom government also announced in July this year a ban on all cosmetic products or personal care products containing microplastics. This step was decided because of increasing evidence that microplastics cause severe damage to aquatic organisms and also poses a serious threat to human health. The legislative proposal will be prepared by the end of the year. Since plastic is at this stage of our development as a raw material, we are aware that it is very difficult to completely ban, but it is not impossible to ban microplastics as a supplement to cosmetic products. It is also not impossible to require stricter laws for the use of plastic. In the absence of legislation, however, they are still too often found in the natural environment and therefore enter the food chains of humans and also animals. Finally, if, in France and Italy, which are also part of the European Union's market as Slovenia, could regulate the matter, a number of Member States of the European Union have also introduced special taxes on plastic bags, here Ireland is the most famous model, we do not know why these countries could, but we could not. If Somalia could have taken the ban, why couldn't Slovenia? So, plastic bags are supposed to be rummaging through history's junkyard. Above all, it is important for us today to conclude that this issue is being taken seriously and that it also stops legally. It's not the consumer who takes what he's offered, it's the one who puts plastic on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Thank you very much. So I'm closing the debate. The vote on the amendments and the proposal for a recommendation will be fully carried out in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end the 39th item of the agenda, as well as the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 3.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u162	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in the following order: 38., 39. and item 2 of the agenda. We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 38th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to the Programme of Work and the Financial Plan of the Agency for Energy for 2018 We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, namely: The National Assembly agrees to the work programme and the Agency's financial plan for 2018 of 26. 9. 2017. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space proposes that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 84 votes against none. [[84 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 39th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Recommendation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prohibit the use of plastic bags, glasses, plates and other containers for single packaging of food and drink and plastic accessories and microplastics. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the second item under number one. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u163	Yes, thank you for your word. I am very pleased that we have had such a high-quality debate on our recommendations on restricting the use of plastic, and I also want your support for these two amendments, which are at the second point. The first amendment is essentially nomotechnic. We are simply replacing the word “use” with “placing” because we do not stigmatise consumers who have no choice but to take the bag they have at their disposal, the consumer has the right to choose fruits and vegetables, for example, in trade, but there is no choice in which to take the matter. We understand this in this way that an alternative needs to be given to the consumer. Our amendment speaks of banning the placing on the market, even if these bags are given free of charge or are sold, they are in any way in traffic and they are threatening the environment. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u164	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 43. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the definition of the amendment of the Levica Group to the second point under number 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the leftist Group, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Although I don't understand the voting machine of the coalition, so be it. Our second amendment to the second point speaks of the proposal that the Government should, while advocating the prohibition of the placing of plastic carrier bags at European Union level, implement such a prohibition in Slovenia. How will we stand for something at European level if we do not show what we want in our own case? We have a legal basis for such a prohibition. As a member of the European Union, we have in the European Parliament Directive on the reduction of the consumption of light plastic carrier bags, which also provides for measures that may include the adoption of economic instruments such as pricing, taxes and duties, and market restrictions such as prohibitions if these restrictions are proportionate and not discriminatory. I think there's a legal basis. Therefore, I ask you to support our amendment, because, as it is said, if you have accepted our recommendation to the Government that it be done at European Union level to ban plastic bags, then it would not be hypocritical at least to do so at home first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-21-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u166	Is there any other explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 40. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the updated proposal for a recommendation. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, and they all unanimously endorsed the proposal for a recommendation. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the initiation of a procedure to complement the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution. I shall put to the vote the following motion for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt a proposal from the Group of Members and Members of Parliament of 18. 2. 2015 to initiate the procedure for supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that the proposed decision be adopted. Before voting, I wish to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 168(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 22. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. Since the National Assembly has adopted a decision to initiate a procedure to supplement the Constitution, we are moving on to a debate on the draft constitutional law and the position of the Constitutional Commission on it, as part of the remainder of the time of the sent groups, the unrelated Member and the proposer. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments to the position of the Constitutional Commission were not tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed position of the Constitutional Commission. Before voting, I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 178 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a position will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 60 votes against 22. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the position has been adopted. We're done with the decision. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Commission will, on the basis of its position adopted, prepare a proposal for a constitutional law and submit it for consideration to the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Members and members of the College will be informed that it will be at 16. 15th meeting of the College began at the Grand Hall in Tomšičeva.
