ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs. Nada Brinovšek, Dr. Mirjam Bon Klanjšček, Violeta Tomić from 16:00 on, Mrs. Maruša Škopac, Mrs. Vesna Vervega until 12 noon, Dr. Franc Trček, Matjaž Hanžek, mag. Andrej Shircelj, mag. Marco Pogačnik, mag. Alexander Kavčič and Mr Matjaž Germany from 17:00 on. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the death penalty and invalidity insurance following a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The bill before you today represents an important step in reducing the risk of poverty among the elderly in our country. It is prepared in cooperation with the Association of Pensioners of Slovenia, which means that all pensioners who have worked full-time at any time will receive a pension of EUR 500 per month even if they have or would have had a lower pension of EUR 500 per month as a result of lower wages under the general rules. The pension system in the Republic of Slovenia is based on the principle of reciprocity, solidarity and the principle of payment of contributions. At the outset, I would like to clarify that the long-term sustainability of the pension system depends both on the level of contributions paid and on the budgetary resources. Both pension fund income items are largely influenced by the economic cycle and the state of public finances. It is important to stress that the amendment does not interfere with the applicable pension scheme and does not prejudice the fundamental principles of pension and disability insurance. The aim of the proposal for amendments to PIZ-2, which we have drawn up, is to ensure the minimum age or invalidity pension for pensioners who have fulfilled the full conditions for retirement, which has been prescribed by every law in force and thus ensure their basic social security. The amount of the pension under full retirement conditions must be at least such that pensioners do not have to be asked for a protective allowance. These pensioners will be provided with an old or disabled pension of EUR 500. According to the Slovenian Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, such a minimum pension, as proposed, will be provided to a total of 45 000 291 beneficiaries, of which up to EUR 500 will be eligible for 29 000 722 women. Single elderly women are today, as far as poverty is concerned, the most endangered group in addition to single - parent families. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that, this year, all pensioners will be entitled to an annual allowance, which will require an amendment to the Budget Implementation Act 2017 and 2018, which the Government has already adopted. The maximum annual allowance will thus amount to EUR 400 and the lowest one will be EUR 90. Those with pensions lower than €760 will receive an annual allowance paid at four different levels, depending on the amount of the pension. Therefore, after several years, the annual allowance will be paid again this year to all pensioners. The debate on the labour market has shown that all stakeholders are aware that the situation of those who have a full working life needs to be improved, which has also been clear on the basis that the proposal for a law has been adopted without a vote against. I sincerely wish that, with the same support as on the Committee's proposal for a law, we would also adopt it today in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u3	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Uroš Pikl.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! At its 39th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. It was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly and was designated or decided to be dealt with in a simplified procedure at the College of the President of the National Assembly. Representatives of the proposer, i.e. Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Law and Legal Service, representative of the State Council, representatives of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and representatives of the Association of Retired Persons of Slovenia, participated in the work of the committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal for a regulation in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made comments to a certain Article. The Committee also received the opinion of the State Council, which, at its meeting, presented an opinion on the law and, of course, supported it. The applicant also briefly outlined the main points of this law and why it was also tabled. The debate itself highlighted the position of all debaters to support the proposal of the law, of course, as we all agreed that pensioners should also be provided with basic social security at least to that extent, I stress, at least to the extent that they will not have to be asked for a protective supplement to survive. The coalition's amendments will benefit not only those pensioners with 40 years of retirement, but also those with an appropriate shorter pension period, if this shorter pension period is uncompensated during transitional periods, i.e. in the past prescribed by the last pension reform. The legislation in force up to and including 1992 required only 35 years of retirement without the age requirement to obtain the right to a retirement pension. The principle of solidarity is expressed for all insured persons in this system through the lowest and highest pension base and the lowest pension for 15 years of insurance. Some members of the Committee felt that minimum pensions should be increased irrespective of whether pension conditions were met. We found it unacceptable that pensioners of 40 years of pensionable age would receive a pension of 440 and fewer euros, while the price for the security allowance was 470 euros. As it has been said, women will also be entitled to the lowest pension by the amendments, which is very important to us, which have retired by the age of retirement prescribed by the pension law for retirement. The view was also expressed that further efforts should be focused on better inspection of the payment of contributions, in order to increase the contribution rate of employers, in order to better manage state assets and that more should be done to create new jobs with higher added value, in order to make wages and consequently to make pensions more inadequate. All the debaters agreed that the proposed solution was a step in the right direction, but the fact that the poverty threshold is now €617 and there will be a lot more to be done in this area. According to the panellists' assessment, a minimum pension of at least €617 would therefore be worth the poverty threshold. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition and finally adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act, which includes the adoption of the amendment, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report, which has been tried briefly to present to you. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the United Left for her by Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman! The Socialists support all measures for the benefit of pensioners, especially those with the lowest pensions, so we will also support the introduction of a guaranteed or minimum pension. Not to be mistaken, 500 euros in pension is absolutely insufficient for 40 years of work, but what we have here today is a step forward. If we are to achieve more, employers' contributions to the pension fund will need to be increased and the income of those with the highest incomes raised. We have already pointed out on the Committee that the proposed law should be supplemented in at least three elements, so today we also propose the adoption of an amendment to help pensioners with the lowest pensions, disabled workers and those who receive widows or family pensions. We therefore propose, for the first time, that a minimum pension of EUR 500 should be taken into account in the assessment of family and widow's pensions. Secondly, the minimum pension of EUR 500 is to be taken into account when the disability benefit is paid. Thirdly, the guaranteed pension for those who retired early increases from 201 euros to 310 euros. There is no valid reason why the minimum pension provision would not apply to these socially vulnerable categories. At the same time, I congratulate the Alliance of Retired Society for a Successful Initiative. Let's not make any illusions. The government and coalition have not prepared this law out of conviction or their own social sense or anything like that, but out of opportunism. Without the organised pressure of the pensioners of this law, there would be no change in the minimum wage, just as without the union campaign in advance. As early as November last year, the coalition categorically rejected the proposal of the United Left to regularly coordinate pensions with the excuse that each cent more for pensions would constitute a violation of the fiscal rule. Thus, this law proves that any increase in social rights will have to be literally fought. Finally, I must point out that the Government has sent a law into the procedure which has been highly discriminatory until pensions. According to the original proposal, very few pensioners would have the right to a guaranteed pension, even though they have retired with a full pension. The Ministry, which is also responsible for equal opportunities, should not be allowed to do so. And today, I would expect a sincere apology and a promise from the representatives of the government instead of being proud of myself that something like this will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u7	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! We have an interesting proposal for a law today at our disposal. In Novi Slovenija we believe that he is also controversial. This move is also confirmed by the fact that the Government has put it into consideration and then the coalition has postponed it and now it is being re-examined. Clearly, he was not fully coordinated or written in such a way that he could cause new inequalities or injustices. After consideration so far, we can clearly say that the law is non-systematic and incomplete. And when we intervene with such bad suggestions in a sensitive system of pension and disability insurance, there is nothing good to follow. This does not mean that the objectives of the law are not correct. Pensions in Slovenia are low and the quiet majority of pensioners do not allow a decent life. In Novi Slovenije we look at pensions from the standpoint of respect for human dignity. We have already made it clear several times that for 40 years the pension should be at least as high as the average care in the nursing home. Today we are talking about a minimum of 500 euros in pensions for a full retirement period without totalling. Let us say that this can be the first step, but it cannot possibly be the ultimate goal. With some cynicism, we can ask ourselves where there are still thousands of Euros of average pensions promised not so long ago. Today we can all see that these are every single pre-election fairy tales and that the emperor is naked. Dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition! The pension system, too low and still falling pensions, cannot be saved in this way. Now that we are experiencing higher economic growth, we can add a certain amount from the budget. What if we experience another economic crisis? I repeat, the proposed solution is not systemic and is not long-term. In New Slovenia we believe that the answer is hidden in demography. Between 1980 and last year and last year, we generally lack almost 280 thousand people in Slovenia. If these 280 thousand people had paid their pension contributions over the past two decades, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance would have been easier to breathe and would have been more sustainable. We must also mention that we have taken part in the rights of women in PIZ-2, especially those with a larger number of children, large families. Nor does this law grant them a higher contribution to the pension fund. The calculations show that a family with five children who pay for a pension in 40 years has a pension allowance of EUR 1 million. Unfortunately, the ruling majority of this fact is unaware and in some ways even mocks New Slovenia's proposals to improve demographic imagery. The proposed amendment of the law to pensioners with the lowest pensions brings at least something, even though it does not provide them with a pension at the level of the poverty threshold. He also completely overlooks all pensioners of the 13 000, who have just been deprived of state pensions by the team of Minister Svetlik and Anja Kopač. It will at least temporarily ease the great hardships of those who do not receive even 500 euros without a full pension, so the Members of New Slovenia will support it and continue to pursue the goal of a decent pensioner. In New Slovenia we are preparing a pension reform that will be fair to all citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u9	The word shall be given by the Group of Unaffiliated Members, to her mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a novel of the pension law, which will regulate the so-called minimum pension, amounting to EUR 500. At the outset, let me say that we will support this bill or novelty in our parliamentary group. However, there are quite a few questions on the table that are being asked after our assessment. Is that fair what we do to all the pensioners? Is that the way to solve it? Too low pensions are a fact in Slovenia. But too low a pension is the result. The reason or reason for this is too low wages. If the minimum wage does not guarantee a minimum pension, then, respected colleagues and colleagues, there is obviously something wrong with our system. And we'll have to talk about that in the future. We should talk about something else: what needs to be done in Slovenia to make wages higher, what needs to be changed in Slovenia, so that investors can open high-end jobs with high wages. Then we shouldn't have any problems with low pensions. I hope and wish, Madam Minister, that the response of the President of the Government to this law will not be the same as I received yesterday to end the anti-crisis or crisis measures that apply to pensioners. It's that a few million extra money for pensioners is crushing the system. I wish you would have taken all this into account for these 45 000 and some pensioners when you were making up the fiscal framework and that in the next year or even this year there will be no problem with payment. Once again, I would also like to point out that after four years of economic growth, it is time for all anti-crisis measures to be lifted, whether for pensioners or not. Unfortunately, the Government and the coalition still do not implement the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in its entirety, otherwise they would not talk about the five levels of the so-called Regression for pensioners, but would be paid at two levels. And once again, after four years of economic growth, it's time for these things to change or fix back to pre-crisis times. However, as I have already said, despite the fact that there are still a number of issues on the table related to the minimum pension, we will support the bill in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u11	The text is addressed to Mr Saša Tabaković, the Group of the Modern Centre Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u12	Honorable President, Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the SMC Group, we are pleased to decide today on the changes and additions to the pension law, which, in order to ensure social security for long-term workers, determine new amounts of the lowest pension, which are or will depend on the length of the pension without redemption. We are also pleased that, compared to the original proposal, we have finalized the proposed solutions in a way that takes into account the principle of non-discrimination between the different categories of insured persons, in particular pensioners. We therefore support the solution envisaged in the bill, namely a minimum pension of EUR 500 will be provided to all insured or pensioners and pensioners who have retired at the age of retirement, which was considered to be a full pension during that period, or the length of the pension period required for retirement at the minimum age. It is also right to take into account the historical social aspects that have led the legislator in the past to prescribe different full conditions for retirement in different periods. It is also important to stress in this connection that the proposed solutions that we are adopting today through the amendment of the law do not prejudice the principle of equality between individual insurers who have retired in different periods following the rules in force at that time. It is precisely the element of retirement in meeting the full conditions that were in place during a given period that connects the pensioners who will be provided with the lowest pension and represents an element of equality. It should also be stressed that the aim of the solution is to provide a minimum retirement or disability pension for full-time pensioners at a comparable amount of the price to obtain the right to a protective allowance and thus ensure their social security at least to the extent that they do not have to be asked for a protective allowance for survival. Finally, the right to a constitutional pension is also protected as a social category. However, this does not affect the general system of pension and disability insurance and the way the pension is administered. This is important because the right to a pension is also constitutionally protected as an economic category. In the course of its decision, the Constitutional Court has stated this several times. Finally, on behalf of the Group of Members, allow me to point out that the solutions proposed are the first and certainly not the final step in providing especially decent pensions and the related issues of addressing the problem of poverty. Confirmation of the solutions proposed today should be a joint commitment and a responsibility for further work in this area. In the SMC Group, we will support the bill for the above reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u14	Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law to increase the minimum pension for a selective and arbitrary group of pensioners. In terms of fairness and the fact that the difference in pension increases in accordance with Article 3 is provided from the budget, the funds allocated to the budget for the lowest pensions should be provided on an equal and non-discriminatory basis for all categories of pensioners receiving pensions below EUR 500. We must make it very clear in the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we will support the proposal for a law because we support any solution aimed at improving the situation in this area and increasing pensions for the most vulnerable groups of pensioners. According to our assessment, all pensioners who receive a pension of less than 500 euros and not just some would benefit from the budget. It would also be fairer and fairer if the pension is already going to individual groups in order to raise the lowest pension base and thus maintain the relationship between the lowest and the highest pension base. I hope that the Government is aware of and understands the fact that we are talking about pensions based on paid contributions in the pension system and that social measures are something completely different and that horizontal and vertical solidarity among pensioners is also taken into account in the pension system. With the proposed pension raise, the coalition recognises that social policy itself has not been effective in recent years. In our view, the law has nothing to do with pensions, but it is only a social measure, which is of course welcome, but as such has nothing to do with pension law. The proposed social measures should be fair and not reserved only for those who have not acquired their working time, but also for those who are entitled to family and widowal pensions and beneficiaries of disability benefits, which are discriminatoryly excluded by this law. We also stress that the proposal for a law is populist and pre-eminent. But he's also incoherent for a number of reasons. Firstly, it means moving the pension system away from the principle of insurance because some will receive an allowance from the budget, regardless of the contributions paid and regardless of their actual social situation. Secondly, the applicant recognises that it is a measure of a social nature, which does not fall within the system pension law, but within the social policy measures of the Law on the Rights of Public Resources. In a social sense, he is completely inconsistent and unfair and kindly strange. Thirdly, the justification for the financial consequences is not valid for 2018 and 2019. It is not true that the increase in these two years will be minimal. The financial implications will be the same as the 2017 regulation, plus the growth of new pensioners in both years. If the Government recognises that this is a social policy measure, we believe that those who have 20 years of retirement have the same stomach and needs as those who have 40 years of pension base. That is why we ask the Government of Miro Cerar and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Disabled Persons and Equal Opportunities and ask her to explain why those of more retirement age are more socially at risk and need an allowance than those of less retirement age who have pensions of 200, 300, 400 euros. To conclude, as I said in the introduction, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we are very disappointed with Minister Anjo Kopač Mrak and the Government of Mir Cerar because he proposes solutions that are not systemic, are not consistent and are intended to put out selectively selected social focal points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for her mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u16	Your Honor! It is unacceptable for a person to face poverty in the autumn of his life, after working hard enough for a long period of time. In fact, it is not only unacceptable and unacceptable, but it is also inappropriate for some to receive only €440 for full-time work. These four vegetables and two blues return the pensioner immediately back to the financial flow of the country by paying electricity, water, garbage, supplementary health insurance, a few litres of milk, bread and a kilo of meat again to return to the budget through VAT. However, if he accidentally needs any more medicine to be paid, our pensioner can only wipe out his tears. By adopting this bill, which will be supported by all of us in the Desus Group, we will alleviate the plight of pensioners, those who have retired on a regular basis. For the full pension period, we will provide a minimum pension pension of EUR 500 for all well-deserved prescribed years following every applicable pension law. In the Desus Group we first heard the initiative of pensioners after a larger full-time pension. We are pleased with the coalition support and the fact that the bill was tabled as a government law. This proves that we are working in a given financial situation and, with improved economic indicators, gradually returning to pensioners, which they have been deprived of in the past. At Desus, we are working to ensure that the older population is paid, which it has sacrificed for us as a country to successfully cope with the last economic crisis. The reconciliation of pensions has either been frozen or only minimally coordinated in recent years. In the past year, however, because of Desus’ insistence, he has brought about twice as much reconciliation of pensions. This year we have also harmonised pensions and the fact that the reconciliation of pensions in February this year has been higher than regular harmonisation under the system law. We can also confirm with certainty that all pensioners receive this year’s annual allowance. On today's topic, however, in the position of the Desus Group, I would like to highlight the following. The government's proposal for a law that was tabled on the initiative and when President ZDUS was engaged, it had a very different purpose at the start. This is to provide higher pensions to those pensioners who have worked for a slightly longer period than the prescribed period, but not in a single amount, but between €470 and €500. In our parliamentary group, we immediately drew attention to the very exposed problem of the poverty of older single women. These would have been disadvantaged after the initial proposal of the law, as they had retired at 35 years of retirement, which was once a requirement for a full retirement period. We are therefore pleased that we have found a solution that will provide a minimum pension for the pensioners, regardless of the period in which they have fulfilled the legal conditions for full retirement. So retirement with the so-called full prescribed age for full retirement. It is important, or crucial, for pensions to be worthy, that, in addition to regular coordination of pensions and the establishment of a minimum decent pension, employees receive a decent payment for their work at the time of active work. The fact that the minimum wage is below the poverty threshold says a lot about our country and those who are undoubtedly successful in maintaining an unfair labour system. You probably don't have to wonder why the pensions are so low. We will be pleased to confirm this law by the Members and Members of Desus, which guarantees a minimum pension for all those who have done their jobs fairly and firmly. Surely, however, at least in the Desus Group we will not only remain in this step towards improving the standards of our pensioners and of other citizens as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u17	The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Mrs Marija Bachič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance, which we are dealing with today, we are legislating the lowest pension. In this way, according to the model of the statutory minimum wage, we also set up the Institute of Minimum Pensions. This will be provided to all who are or will meet the full pension conditions of EUR 500. We are therefore taking an important step towards a safe age and approaching the amount of a decent pension, although we are all aware that the newly established minimum pension is still lower than the calculated minimum cost of living and the poverty threshold. Although everyone would like to be able to provide more than 600 euros to all pensioners with a full pension, this is unfortunately not going well at the moment due to the sustainability of the pension allowance. By amending the law, we provide a minimum pension of 500 euros to all those who have obtained the right to an old and invalid pension and have completed their retirement. It should be noted, however, that this is not the case for early retirement pensioners, since the latter were familiar with and agreed with all the young people and retired before fulfilling the full conditions laid down in the current legislation for retirement. We are aware of the fact that pensioners who have retired prematurely, especially those with lower incomes, will also need to find a comparable solution, such as the lowest pension institution. We have indeed postponed the decision of the coalition partners on this law, but only because we wanted a fairer arrangement for the majority. The original proposal by the ZDUS, which predicted the various amounts of the lowest pension, depending on the length of the retirement period without a sum, was close to us, but after playing the various scenarios we have today on the table of solutions which we agreed was the most appropriate since it eliminates the perceived unequal treatment of women who are or will still meet full pension conditions before men. The Constitution provides that the right to a pension must primarily be based on an insurance principle. In this respect, the pension is a property right because it depends primarily on the duration and the amount of the insured’s contribution. In the fact that pensions are too low and should be higher, but the sustainability of the excessive suspension system does not allow us to do so, it is imperative to refer to the level of the salary from which contributions are paid. The problem is low employee income, so it is essential that we increase employment and demand decent pay. The wage policy with the minimum wage system and the corresponding wage-to-other ratios is crucial. People must be paid to work, they must be motivated to work, and the pre-condition is also the decent payment they receive for the work they have done. The basic purpose of the law is to ensure an old invalidity pension at a comparable level, such as the price to obtain a protective allowance governed by social protection rules, thereby ensuring their basic social security at least to the extent that they do not have to be asked for a protective allowance for survival. The amendment of the law thus ensures social security for long-term pensioners. The measure covers more than 45 000 pensioners. A little over 15,000 men and little less than 30,000 women will thus receive higher pensions of at least 500 euros in October. By adopting this law, we will take an important step towards improving the situation of the most vulnerable group of pensioners, but we are aware that this law will have to be gradually followed by other measures that will eliminate or at least mitigate the difficult material situation of the most vulnerable groups of pensioners. We will support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u19	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 4. 2017. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the United Left Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u20	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Today we are considering a proposal for a novel that provides a minimum pension for full-time work without a total of EUR 500 per month, which will enter into force, if adopted, with effect from 1 October this year. This, as in the case of minimum wage, attempts are made to establish a minimum income institution in the light of the work done and the payment to the pension fund. It is true, however, that the proposal of the novel not only responds to the social situation of these individuals, but also refers to the income gap, which in our society is unfortunately also defined by the gender that originates from the cultural, traditional and historically retired various social roles and resulting inequalities in the labour market. In this respect, there will certainly be some further steps and additional efforts to be made. However, as we say, with the proposal of the amendment, we are certainly in the right direction. The proposal by the amendment of the United Left foresees raising the highest pension rate from 26% to 40% of the lowest pension base, which would represent significantly higher expenditure of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. Regrettably, PPIZ has pointed out that it is not possible to ensure that these funds are also redistributed within the financial plan. Nor did the amendment proposer state the means of providing funds, which then means that these funds would go directly from the budget. I would like to point out that in 2017, without the implementation of the proposed amendment, the budgetary implications of the €3 million will be good and in 2018, €13 million will be good. I think that this is not a small one, and at this point it is also a number that the additional state can provide at this time. Especially in the fact that we are an increasingly long-lived society, which of course is good, it is important to keep this in mind, given that in time the pressure on the pension fund will increase. As we say, we must also have this before our eyes in these good-intentioned proposals. Especially because it would not be good for us, given the pace of pension reform, to happen in some future, in this sense also in the collapse of the pension system. This is not only in the light of the provision of funds, but also about the pension scheme itself. The lowest pension after the current system is the percentage of the pension to which a man would be entitled who had a pension base lower or equal to the lowest pension base and obtained at least 15 years of insurance during the active period, which is also the entry threshold for obtaining pension entitlements. Taking into account the amendment proposal, which raised the lowest rate of pension from 26% to 40%, this would be guaranteed at the same level to the insured who were included in the insurance for 15 years as well as to those who were included between 26 and 27 years. That would not really be right, for we really cannot compare someone who paid 15 years in cash with someone who paid her once more. In view of the longer term, this can also not be stimulating, since then it would mean that an individual would insist on pension insurance for 15 years because he would know if he was once more longer, that this would simply mean the same amount of pension. If this is how we want to address the overriding with this proposal of the United Left, that is, a social phenomenon that is certainly a problem, and of course we are all aware of it. because, in fact, the over-representation certainly refers to a certain proportion of young people, including few young people who are forced into pre-carnation and then rightly ask themselves whether they will be able to wait for their pensions at all, and I agree if this is also an amendment that this is a matter to be addressed, but I still think that the answer to this solution must be found elsewhere, namely in the more stringent, restrictive legislation concerning breach of labour relations, including effective inspections. Here I would like to point out that this law is still in preparation, although in my opinion we certainly need it bloodyly in view of the situation in society. More than once, however, it has already been stressed about job provision and higher wages, that a solution must be sought in order to encourage jobs that also have higher added value. If the amendment wants to address the overriding in this sense, the applicants will also say that, if I understand correctly, I think that it is also necessary to look elsewhere for a solution and that it is not possible to involve them in the pension register, because it will simply not bring the desired results. There is no support for the SMC proposal for an amendment in the SMC Group. However, it certainly opens up certain specific questions that this esteemed congregation will have to address. As already stated in the position, we will only support the amendment of the law at the expectations of many citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u21	The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. It was interesting to hear the views of the parliamentary groups, in particular those of the coalition parliamentary groups, who were declared very much here to eliminate all injustices, but, as we hear from Comrade Tabakovic, they will not support our amendments. Of course, the funds will go from the budget, but how different! And you're saying that ZPIZ warned that he couldn't secure the funds. Despite better economic growth indicators that pensioners will also have to live a decent life, you did not foresee. You predicted, however, that the richest should be paid a tax exemption of as much as 80 million. If we didn't do it, we wouldn't have poor pensioners in Slovenia. If we raised employers' contributions, we would also have enough money for this necessary social measure. I am also afraid that the discrimination against the pensioners afforded by the government in the basic proposal of this law has not been accidental. This bill, I warn you, is not the first case that this same team of the Ministry of Labour is getting into this most vulnerable category, although the minister in the government's position here said that older women besides single-parent families are the most vulnerable group of the population. You see, this is an excellent place for us to agree. But we do not agree on how to solve their problem. The risk of poverty in these vulnerable groups is in fact the highest. And yet, with the reform of 2010, Pahor's government hit them, right after single parents' families and older women. The abolition of state pensions has affected them the most. The vast majority of the recipients of state pensions were someone other than rural women from poor farms who were unable to pay even contributions to farm insurance. Before Pahor’s government abolished state pensions, there were 14 thousand 600 residents and residents of the state. The second measure by which Pahor's Government disproportionately affected women's pensioners was a change in the protective allowance for social transfer. As we know, there were more than 47,000 recipients of the protection allowance in 2011, and now there are fewer than 11,000 recipients. Below the line, we can say that Pahor's reform has affected as many as 50,000 socially vulnerable people, not only by abolishing state pensions and a protective allowance, but also by changing the funeral and the afterlife. In short, I am sure, and we in the United Left are firmly convinced that the reformers, called Borut Pahor, Ivan Svetlik, Anja Kopač Dark, should not occupy any public functions in the country that is considered social. More. People such as Borut Pahor, who are responsible for damage to public property in the TES 6 affair, as our investigator has revealed, should not perform any public function in the country that declares itself a state of law. So that no one gets the wrong impression that we are biased, I must point out that Jansa-Vision's pension law has also caused a lot of injustice. It affected the workers involved in the internal purchases of the companies. He is also guilty of unemployed persons who voluntarily took part in pension insurance and paid contributions, even though they did not have any income. In short, irrespective of the position we have heard here, read on behalf of Desus by Mrs Mlakarev, I cannot help but say that all these criminal laws have been supported by the so-called party of Desus pensioners. She supported all these criminal proposals because she was in all these governments, including the infamous Zuyph, with whom they had unlawfully reduced the pensions of more than 26,000 people. This is also evidence, I believe, that chronic proof that pensioners' rights have never been the priority of Desus. The real goal of Desus is that their President, Karl Erjavec, is always elected, that he is always in all governments and that he always has any ministerial chair, because he is the universal minister. In short, naive pensioners – and I hope they are listening and aware of this – are only a means that Desus can always sit in the government. Although the situation of these same pensioners is deteriorating from day to day. The essence of our amendments, which obviously will not be supported by the coalition, is to improve the position of those pensioners who have the lowest pensions or the position of their family members. To all the solutions that we are proposing, it is common that the Government and the coalition have not given any reasonable reason why we should not remove the restrictions that we are trying to remove. You also said that the lowest pensions are necessarily tied to the lowest wages. Of course, absolutely, but you did not support our proposal to raise the minimum wage. I hope that you will at least support the proposal to exempt the allowances from the minimum, because this would absolutely improve income and also the base for pensions. I urge you to consider these social measures and that not only the richest in this country but also the poorest, those who have worked hard their whole lives, should be helped to live a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u23	The Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Dr. Anja Kopač Dark has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u24	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Now it felt a little like we were at least three weeks before the elections. Operating and speaking information that is partly real, partly not, as it always is, that everyone can afford part of the truth and let go of part of the other. The fact is, pensions are the result of work. The pension scheme is based on contributions paid. It is a system where we pay during the course of our active life for the time of our age. It is important that we have many elements of solidarity in the system, but we cannot and must not, at least my opinion as Minister of Labour, but probably the United Left or what you are, socialists, you think otherwise. The position of the current government and quite a few governments before that was that the pension system had to reflect the payment of contributions. If you want to know why the government does not support your amendment – because you would like to compare those who have worked for 25 years with those who have worked for 26 and 27 years. That's it. This means that work as a value in our society does not have to be only important for all those who need to get the same in the end. Mix the pension insurance system, which is an insurance system, where it is essential to know the difference in the payment of the contribution, by knowing that we recognize that there must be elements of solidarity in the system. And so are you. This proposal, which you are deciding today, also has elements of solidarity, and the Government is committed to the system and has full responsibility for the system after the elections and for the next three weeks or a year and is responsible for the future generations that receive payments from this system. Therefore, there is a proposal that you are now deciding to provide a minimum pension for those who have been working full-time with a total pension of EUR 500, without prejudice to the percentages and thus do not interfere with the basic system of reciprocity that exists, creating a difference between those who have worked different periods of time and who have received different amounts of wages. If we go in the direction of the system, perhaps the British, which is usually something very unacceptable to you, there is a way to pay the same contributions and eventually receive different benefits from the pension system, which forces the system so that those who earn more are paid into private pillars. When we make an over-the-counter in our system, at least that's what pension systems show, which have been there for a long time, that leads to the breakdown of solidarity, reciprocity pension systems. But it sounds good. It sounds great why we don't give everyone 500 euros, even to those who have worked 15 years, anyway, because yes, the fact is that people are hard to live. But social security systems are based on two systems. This is on social assistance systems where an individual, regardless of his contribution, gets enough to survive, and other systems financed by the insurance principle, which is a pension system where the basic value of work is. Social assistance systems – the protective allowance is such a system and we wanted to propose that the one who worked full-time, although unfortunately he had such a low salary that his pension was lower than 500 euros to ensure the amount of his pension. And yes, the problem is the height of the wage. The problem isn't just minimum wage. The problem is that, at this point in our country, two thirds of the employees have an average salary of slightly over a thousand euros net, and so we are looking at two thirds of the employees between 614 and a thousand and 50 euros. When you have wishes about pensions and retirement, and it sounds great, and all those pensioners want a higher pension, you break the system of reciprocity. But the fact is, in the end, it's always important how we establish a relationship to work and, above all, how much we create, because only what we create can we share. As far as this is concerned, because you know that a lie may already be on this side, a state pension, you will not believe, was returned with the PPIZ, which was rejected at the referendum, and the decision of the government of Janez Janša when the PPIZ was adopted in 2012, that there was no provision on the return of state pensions. Whoever abolished state pensions is one way or another a lot of different aspects of this story. As for the protective supplement, yes, I can personally say that that decision was wrong, so I tried to correct it when I had the opportunity to do so. That is why, thank you for your support, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the law governing a different arrangement for a protective supplement. It is important to conclude that, above all, we need to give young people faith in the pension system, which we need to make so that we realize that if we pay into the system, I will also get it. That not everyone will feel that it doesn't matter how much I pay in this system, because eventually we'll all get more or less what we're going to get. And this is your proposal going in this direction, if I simplify that it doesn't matter how much time I work, but it is important that I have a pension of less than 500 euros and then I get it, no matter how much time I work. And that's unacceptable from the point of view of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u25	The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Before I take a bite in the amendment we made in the United Left, let me first respond to the previous debate. For starters, Madam Minister, what information we provide is incorrect? All the information we provide is from the competent institutions. These numbers are holding. We didn't invent them ourselves in the United Left. If you are already betting on us with false truths, half-truths, lies and the like, tell us which data is incorrect. I think they all drink pretty good water. Unfortunately, the things you said don't drink water. Let us say that we have a pension system in which people have to pay in the course of their active lives and then proportionally receive pensions. What's happening to us right now is that you're actively preventing people from doing normal work with the rights that come out of work, with your policies that stimulate holiday jobs. You've been doing this actively since you've been in government. You're talking about work as a value, but in fact, you've devalued the work and you're increasingly sinking it to the level of poverty. And when you talk about a system of reciprocity, you're really talking about reciprocity in poverty for a large proportion of our people. And then you evolve the spirit of social justice when we talk about raising the pension bottom from 201 euros to 310 euros for 15 years of work. That's unacceptable. On the other hand, you actively co-create and promote major social injustices. With this I come to answer to the SMC Member of Parliament. It is not a problem with our amendment, which raises pensions and in particular protects vulnerable groups of pensioners, that there is no means for them to overburden the state budget or anything like that. Look, your coalition, your government has accepted 80 million euros in tax exemptions and services for the rich in this mandate. You've given gifts, you've taken away the state budget, and you've given this money to capitalists, ministers, something to us Members after all, supervisors and so on. At the time, you were not at all interested in public finances. Neither did the Government, as a proponent, serve one single argument. Nor did you care about the fiscal rule when it was necessary to give money to the rich. However, when we come to the United Left on a proposal to harmonise pensions and so go up, albeit for one cent, then no, this initiative violates the provisions of the fiscal rule. And when we propose the fairest possible pensions, as we are trying to do today, the problem arises again immediately. This problem would not have been the case if it had not given 80 million euros a year to the rich, but would have been turned socially justly against the poor, against the pensioners with the lowest pensions and so on. It would also be much easier for higher pensions to follow the pace of salary raises if they actually did something at salary rises. We proposed to raise the minimum wage in the United Left, and you shot him down a little bit. Then all of a sudden, the problem, her, we can't raise pensions that much and that much because wages are too low. The question of the forerunners and pensioners is that we can largely pursue the chastity by strengthening control and strengthening inspection services. That's exactly what we're proposing in the United Left, and that's what we're doing. On 4 May last year, we passed a law on the inspection of work at the table of this National Assembly. There was no serious argument against this work inspection law, but there was a different and similar excuse that the dog made at the tip of its tail. When we arrived with this strengthening of the work inspection – did you support it? You're not. Just yesterday, after a year in the United Left, we decided to file the Labour Inspection Act again. One of your excuses at the time was that a new proposal, a government coalition proposal, would come to the table a few months later. We are now 12 months later and this proposal is not yet there. Also, colleague Prikl, chairman of the committee, swore at the time, "this proposal of the United Left will be rejected, but if the Government does not come with its proposal, I, Uroš Prikl, Desus, will bring a new law on inspection of the work of September to the table." Prikl did not do this, so this time we hope that he will support the law on labour inspection, because in his discussions we often recognize the problem of leniency and we do not need him to step aside in the process of eliminating this chastity. After all, it is possible for possible holes, although we are not talking about such huge amounts, to continue to raise contributions to employers in public finances. In the mid-1990s, these contributions were cut in half. Since then, this hole has been created in the ZPIZ, which is partly covered by budgetary resources. This measure was adopted at the time with an excuse to relieve employers of the burden of making easier investments in production, development and so on. But where are we with this development now? Economic activity has returned to that pre-crisis level, and we still have 60,000 less employees. That's what this is all about. The funds did not go to jobs, to value added, they went to tax havens, they went to yachts, they went to, I don't know how many rooms, apartments in the middle of Ljubljana that the richest 10,000 Slovenians could afford. Why can you afford them? Because the other two million Slovenians are working for their wealth. The country has here in the hands of scissors and canvas to offset this social inequality with tax policies and social measures, but unfortunately it does not. He's doing the opposite. He takes on working people, the poor and the rich with tax breaks. If I go now to the specific amendment that we propose to this law. Firstly, we propose that in Article 39, paragraph 1, the rate of the early retirement rate should be increased from the current 26% to 40%. Why? This would increase the lowest pension in Slovenia from the current 201 euros to 310 euros and thus also help those pensioners, especially pensioners who are most socially at risk. And this is the absolute pension bottom that would raise it by 100 euros. Secondly, we propose the deletion of the new fifth paragraph, as stated by the Government, in this way the entitlement of up to €500 of pensions would also take into account the added time for pensioners who have retired under the old legislation. Thirdly, the socialists propose that the guaranteed pension of EUR 500 be proposed also for family or widow's pensions and disability benefits. A more detailed explanation of these proposals for starting with a rise in the dose percentage is from 26% to 40% of the minimum pension base. Why is that important? It's these people who are the most socially vulnerable. They're mostly women's peasants. These are insured persons who, due to their living, social circumstances, did not experience much pension age, did not have access to education, etc. If we raise this lowest pension, this group will no longer have to apply for financial social assistance because this amount will already be received through this pension. The added argument here is that this group of people often does not ask for monetary social assistance because it is afraid that this country will sit on property for them, oh, a strong social state, because monetary social assistance is to a large extent still credit in our country instead of real solidarity aid and solidarity measure. This is also an argument why we can afford such a change in the current law. Instead of people receiving funds from financial social assistance or from a protective allowance, they would now be paid a higher pension from the STIZ instead. The second set of our proposal is the minimum full-time pension. Here is the question whether only clean working hours or the so-called additional period should be taken into account. The representative of the Ministry said that the deletion of this provision was irrelevant because, under the new law, there is no longer an added age as required by the old legislation, but Article 4 of this Law states that the right to a minimum pension should also be granted to pensioners who have retired under the old laws if they have achieved full pension benefits, which is okay, but this must be realized. If we look at Article 193 of the ZPIZ, it says that it is, I will quote, “I also take into account the time in which the insured person was registered at the employment agency” to meet the conditions of the pension period. And these two need to be reconciled. The pensioners retired after ZPIZ-1 before this added period was disregarded because they knew that they recognized themselves as an equivalent retirement age. Here we propose that this restriction be deleted and that a minimum pension of 500 euros be recognised to all those who have reached the required retirement age under the old legislation. Maybe the ministry representative will claim that this was already counted in retirement, and so, in that case, I'll say okay. However, at the meeting of the committee, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service here drew the Government's attention to ambiguity and remained unanswered. Which brings me to the third proposal of the United Left. We also propose that this new guaranteed pension should be taken into account in the assessment of the widow’s or family’s pension and in the measurement of the disability benefit. This would benefit the children or widows of pensioners who already had a low salary and later a low pension, and it is more than likely that other members of their families lived in poverty, that is, their wives from their children. This would contribute to the slightly higher income of the socially disadvantaged population, but really a little higher, so that no one here will ever wave again, how the United Left undermines the system of reciprocity and social justice and so on. The additional cost for this measure would be relatively low from a budgetary point of view. This measure would also benefit workers and workers who, due to a serious illness, have half-retired, who are another vulnerable group. Imagine if you have a minimum wage your whole life, then you get very sick, you become partially disabled, there is a very high probability that you will also be poor. And it would make sense to increase the income of these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u27	The State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mr Peter Pogačar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! Nice greetings for me, too. However, as regards the explanation of the amendment tabled by Mr Kordiš, a few clarifications need to be made. Once again, the basic purpose of the bill is to guarantee the minimum amount of pension for those who have completed the full pension period, and according to the general rules of the low-income pension, their calculated pension under the general rules does not reach EUR 500. It means that if a person's pension is higher than EUR 500 under the general rules, he will have a higher pension. The pension shall always be awarded in accordance with the general rules and then, by means of a proposal for a law, the State guarantees the minimum amount of the minimum pension to which that insured person is entitled, which has in the past completed the full pension period in accordance with the rules in force at that time. This is the complement that has been reached in the National Assembly and in fact puts those pensioners who have retired through different systems in the same position. We must be aware that since this country is independent, the third pension law has now been in force. And each marriage has its own rules for obtaining the conditions for a retirement pension. The second main objective of this law is to ensure that, despite ensuring the minimum amount of pension under general rules, it is as minor as possible to interfere with the system of pension and disability insurance as we know it in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why the law provides that any pensioner will also be remunerated according to the general rules and that the minimum pension will be paid if the pension is lower than EUR 500. Of course, this is true of those pensioners who have ever fulfilled a full retirement age. Today, 40 years of non-compensation pensionable age was appointed, for example, before 2000 for women was 35 years; between 2000 and 2012, the pension age rose gradually from 35 to 38 years. But anyone who has retired has retired from retirement or disability with a full retirement age, falls under the proposal to amend this law and the state will guarantee him the lowest amount of pension. Now to the proposal of the pension itself, it is said that this is what, I think, is important to stress. It is without prejudice to a system based on the principle of insurance and the principle of solidarity, as shown by the lowest pension base and the highest pension base. The amendment suggests that, for 15 years of retirement, the lowest pension base would be raised from 26% to 40% of the lowest pension base. This would be an intervention in the general system of pension and disability insurance based on contributions paid. We would like to compare the insured person who paid for 15 years with the insured person who paid between 26 and 27 years of age. We'd both have the same pension. Is that right? This may be a question for the future to regulate the pension system, whether we will go to universality, total pure solidarity, where it will be practically irrelevant, how much an individual has contributed to the pension fund, how much time he has paid, or in a pure insurance principle. I am also professionally inclined to the system as we have it, it is said, a pension system is based on paid contributions with solidarity elements that are shown on the lowest pension basis and the highest pension basis, and with the proposal of this law, which I think is indeed correct, which guarantees the lowest nominal amount of pension. As regards the amendment proposal below. I think that this is a bit – and I probably thought as a representative of the ministry on the parent board, Mr Kordiš – it was explained, also those who, after the ZPIZ-1 by 2012, fulfilled the pension period in which they established the retirement pension, fulfilled what was voluntary inclusion, and fulfilled the full pension period that was in force at that time, are entitled to the lowest amount of the pension. After 2012, however, early-retirement insurers mean that they did not meet the conditions of full retirement and do not fall under this law because they knew that they were retiring prematurely. Maybe just a comment, which has already been explained on the committee. The proposal concerning the added age under the new law, the added period under the new law – the new law, well, it now applies for four years – only to insured persons who are insured and receive 3 months of added age for 12 months of inclusion. Let me point out at the end of this debate, there are two objectives of the law. The first is that it guarantees those who have ever worked full-time pensions, regardless of whether they have a lower-rate pension, the lowest amount of pension, because we can all agree that it is wrong for someone who has worked 40 years to receive a retirement pension in the amount at which he is entitled to a security allowance. The second objective is to ensure that the amendment of the law does not affect the general system of pension and disability insurance, in this delicate balance of intergenerational and also within generational cooperation. I propose that the draft law, which was created on the initiative of the Association of Retired Persons, the first proposal for a solution adopted by the Government was prepared in cooperation with the Association of Retired Persons' Societies, during the debate, during the legislative process, the proposal for substantive solutions has changed and I believe that it is now so that it guarantees what is right: guaranteed the minimum amount of pension for those who have worked full-time pensions at any time in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u29	Replica, Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. I thank the representative of the Government for his answers and technical explanations. I would just like to explain at the point of social justice. Look, when we talk about the lowest income classes in our society, including pensions, and about €200 about €300 per month, you talk about social justice, and it's not fair that someone instead of €200 will now get 300. But when we talk about serious numbers, about 80 million vacations per year, tax breaks for the rich when we talk about the threat of penitential employment, which mainly plagues our young people in the labour market, then you talk about the economy, about flexibility and about public finances. At that time, you have no interest in social justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u31	Since it's still an interest in the debate, please apply. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! With regard to the minimum pension, I can say that I have been working for quite some time to come up with this solution, so I welcome the Ministry's proposal that we have a law today that will give us a minimum full-time salary of at least EUR 500. But the fact is that we need to talk today about how welcome this height is, and at the same time still below the threshold of poverty. We still find, according to the data, that the poverty threshold is EUR 613 and this is the threshold that must be achieved as soon as possible with pensions. If we look at statistics, unfortunately I'm talking about statistics, although there are people and their social situation in this statistic, we can find that there are as many as 300,000 people below the poverty threshold and as many as 100,000 just above the poverty threshold. We can talk about the fact that in Slovenia there are currently as many as 400,000 people at risk of their social situation. This certainly cannot be the objective and satisfactory situation in the country, so it will be necessary to approach the minimum wage in addition to the minimum pension. The minimum wage is also below the poverty threshold, which is unacceptable. A person working all day, working all day, or fulfilling all his work obligations, and not receiving a minimum wage to provide him with a minimum decent life, is unacceptable, especially because a large part of these minimum wages are also within the various commercial networks that are in foreign ownership. We support, in particular, foreign owners to make these profits at the expense of the minimum wages of Slovenian workers and workers. The minimum wage is certainly the next step and, of course, an appropriate adjustment to other wage classes. This is a goal that will also make pensions more appropriate than they are today. Last but not least, in my opinion, it must be legal that the minimum pension must by no means be less than 90 % of the minimum wage. These are the criteria that we can certainly achieve in Slovenia, as well as measures that can provide more resources both in the state budget and also redirect the financial flows of companies from remittances to tax havens to a higher standard of people. The greater satisfaction of the employees will certainly bring more economic growth. Therefore, a very simple measure to raise more resources in the state budget is certainly a common public procurement. We've talked a lot about this in the area of health. If only for health care they had made a common method of public procurement, they would have saved hundreds of millions of euros already in the process. However, if we are talking about the whole country and the public sector as a whole, we would certainly be talking about how today we could legislate a peaceful minimum pension above the poverty threshold and also provide all the other means to accelerate investment and thus create new jobs, which are those that are paying both in health and pension bills. This mechanism is not a science fiction, but it is very simple and also feasible. With the fact that we are assessing that there are already EUR 75 billion from Slovenia in tax havens in these years, it is also necessary to tax all financial transactions in tax havens. This is a tax rate on company profits of 25 %. The financial administration can do this peacefully without any major stress or investment in any system of modernisation or similar, which is usually the reason why they do not do something or, if you want, do not do it until we have a law. Taxation in the tax havens of assets that drain away from the capital owner is also one of those measures that does not go into the tax haven and remains with employees, and we can certainly talk about workers being significantly more efficient and significantly more willing to do their jobs and this money is being spent at home. Also, according to the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, it is very soon to find that one of the main factors for a larger gross domestic product is domestic consumption. And all that we are talking about today will certainly contribute to greater domestic consumption, greater economic growth and, as a result, more jobs. Here I would just like to say once again that it is a fiscal rule that has been marked as one of those major solutions in Slovenia, how we will save a lot of money by squeezing people, how we will solve all the problems, in fact, during this period of implementation of the fiscal rule, it has proved to be devastating for economic growth, for job loss and consequently a great deal of pressure to sell everything that is profitable and owned by people in Slovenia. On the other hand, we have never built a mechanism under this fiscal rule that precisely these frauds that occur through bank rehabilitation are limited through the sale of all these bad loans and a much more sober approach is required. If we are talking here about billions in the bank hole and the current liabilities due to what appears to be an overestimation of the bank hole, we are paying around €400 million annually for the unnecessary credits that were hired to fill this bank hole, which was obviously artificially created. If only these mechanisms are implemented, we reduce interest from 400 million to perhaps 100 million due to an excessive bank hole, we collect money at 25% of the taxation of remittances into tax havens, and we also organise effective public procurement from one place, then we will talk about amounts, because in fact there will be enough money for the pension system, for the development of science, which is one of those key issues that scientists seriously point out is that the consequences of not investing in development do not appear immediately, but they show up soon, surely in five years, and it is not possible to make up for later on in the hypo. So we have an opportunity with some measures to settle the situation in the country and to resolve all of these unnecessary debates that we have many times in Parliament, how we will solve something, and we cannot solve it in this simple way that I have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u33	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! It is not a dilemma not to support this solution that we are discussing today, namely the novelties of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides a minimum pension of EUR 500 for the full pension period. But the problem is 500 euros. Why 500 euros? It's kind of a number, it's nice that it's round so we can remember it, but it's kind of specific. My speaker has already talked about the poverty threshold, and I will serve with the exact data found on the website of the Ministry of Labour or the Statistical Office for 2015. Under the poverty threshold, there were 287,000 people living in 2015. The annual poverty risk threshold, ladies and gentlemen, for a single-member household was €7,000 399. When you divide it by 12, 12 months is one year, you get about 617. Look, this would be some logical height of the lowest, minimum pension for the full pension. And then I wouldn't have thought that this was some populism pre-election solution for this ministry or this government. But I very much welcome, and how can I afford pensioners not 500 euros, significantly more. What's the problem? We're either too small or we're not even talking about that segment, about the area where the actual value, the money, if you want, is created for pensions. I want to point to the extremely poor economic policy of this country or this government. What has this government done in these three years to have more employees in Slovenia? Nothing. She didn't do anything. I'm sorry. I'm getting better. Just look at the budget items that bring the so-called mini tax reform adopted last autumn. For 60 million, she has added to the burden of the economy and employers; I am not their advocate; I am the advocate of all people in this country; employers say they do not hope to hire. And what's the problem? Again with the numbers. In 2016, on average, 62 000 48 people worked less than a year before the crisis, which was in 2008. Let's make a simple calculation, let's round up: 60,000 jobs, so we need this moment to equalize the number of employees in 2008. If these 60,000 people, ladies and gentlemen, had a minimum wage, they would have been paid by the poor 200 euros per month of contributions to the pension register. At the annual level, this 60,000 would bring 144 million to the pension fund. 144 million! We are talking here about some good seven million, which will be an additional burden on the pension allowance for a minimum pension of 500 euros. If we went to 617, this burden would be about 8.7 million. So 20 times less than the cumulative contributions that would have been made with 60,000 new jobs. And here's the problem, because our social policy is such that it's simply not worth doing. I speak very hard, but that's the truth. Ask entrepreneurs, Mr. Akrapovich needs 30-40 welders for the year. White landscape – unemployment is 10%. Do you think he gets it? He doesn't. There's a problem. In this area, where it's created, we don't do anything. We're very good at sharing. I repeat, it's not worth doing. Such a social policy will lead to the collapse of society, I tell you. Why the Swiss decided to reject universal basic income at the referendum. Why? Since they have calculated this, everyone can calculate this in order for the company to fail. But I agree with the minister in that segment when she said work is worth it. Only a minister should do the same. And that concludes it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u35	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome all those present in the hall and even in front of the screens, those who accompany us! First of all, let me be allowed to abuse the procedural part a little bit. But since I was also mentioned in the Labour Inspection Act, I have to say here that I look forward to a new marriage because it is still necessary. It is true that I promised some time ago that if the government does not prepare this marriage, I will file it myself because I feel the need, and the need is obvious. I will read with interest this law, which was tabled by colleagues from the United Left yesterday and will then be much easier to decide whether to continue this law, to amend it if necessary, and certainly not wait until the day of judgment until the system law, which will be in line with all stakeholders. When we talk about the law on pension and disability insurance or the amendment of the amendment to this law, I would not like to be patronizing, but I think that we should do so, we all agree that 500 euros is really the minimum that needs to be done, that is, of course, the first step, and that is to conclude the matter. However, when I listen to this debate, I can honestly tell you that I am quite hurt when I hear that we are so-called Members of the House of Desus, who we do not care about pensioners, who are merely a means to sustain our political ideas or goals, of course I must firmly and sharply reject this. From the moment I came to this house, there is a sincere desire in me, and I am also doing my best to help vulnerable target groups – and because my client, who I belong to, is also a pensioner – is one of the priorities to improve the situation of pensioners. Why 500 euros? 500 euros is simply because, at this point, it was simply not possible to achieve it objectively. When Desus comes with any proposal for an increase, to improve the material situation of this or other group or especially the pensioners, we are that need, but now is not the time, and we will wait a little longer. Some who have taken pensioners in the past have given, I will kindly say, very indecisive statements that pensioners are those who have actually contributed nothing to the resolution of the crisis that was a few years ago. Of course that's not true. Today, they are the greatest advocates of the need to remove all restrictive measures that have been taken by pensioners or pensioners overnight and immediately. We have said in the position of the Group of Members that we see in this measure the first or one of the further measures that will no longer happen, that those who worked 35, 40, as well as for years, worked and built this society, now live on the edge or under the edge of an existing or, if you want, social minimum, of course, this is unsustainable. Of course, I agree with all of you — because this is a fact — that you say that a prerequisite for a decent, decent pension is also a decent, decent salary, not that balance sheet at 600 or 650 euros, as many employees as are getting. I also agree that there is a need to increase investment. I also agree that there is a need to fill the budget and both the parabage plant and something else. But, you know, when we cut employers' contributions a little while ago, there's nothing to do with this difference, except that someone has a super luxury car and a ship and what I know, and they put money into tax havens, and then you have to think about it. I think we need to take this one step further. I believe that everyone would like to give, but when we talk about how to get this, how to fill, how to fill the state budget, then everyone would give and unload the economy. I agree, the economy is what we all live on, but not by at the same time – you know, we don't have a vacuum for a few months or a few years, so that we don't just collect anything at some point. That's not how it works. When I listen to this debate, on the one hand, I have a real feeling that some people are already on low ground, that the elections will be next Saturday, and they will certainly not. And I honestly don't want them either, because we intend to adopt another law, another measure that will improve the situation, including, or especially, pensioners, as well as other target groups, not least the law on stricter supervision, greater powers of inspectors and also in the field of labour inspection. At the same time, I feel, on the other hand, that we are already having a serious conversation and are pursuing measures in the coming month or two for a new pension law or so-called pension reform. We have barely started talking about it, professionally, as we call it, discussions at the level of employers, unions and governments are ongoing. I wouldn't be running out of time here right now, giving you time. Above all, I would listen to those who are now retired, and especially those who will move into the pension scheme in the next period. Here I have to point out once again, as well as the pressure on decision makers, co-makers, to make me more precise, to make us in front of the door and to make this door harder to open and confirm the law on the reserve demographic fund, because this is a guarantee that the current pensioners, especially or those who are coming, will therefore enter the pension system in 10, 15 and more years, will receive decent pensions and will thus be burdened by the state's budget. I wish we didn't go to the prestigious fights here, I don't want to be cynical, but I'm afraid when everyone so cares about the pensioners so much, when Desus proposes something, but now it doesn't matter, it really is, colleagues and colleagues, that Desus was in fact almost all governments in the past, but let's be clear, but he was never in that position that he could have scissors and canvas and actually cut off a bigger piece of cake for the pensioners. Now we are stronger, now we are aware that all the errors, all the anomalies, yes, all the anomalies of this and those governments in the past are not going to be corrected in the moment, now and immediately, but that we need some tolerance, and above all sincere desire and will to give the pensioners what they are doing. But what they do is live a decent life, and I can honestly say this, I can see to everyone's eyes that the pensioners, those who built this society and built it up to this extent, as is the case today, are guaranteed and allowed to live a decent third life. We'll insist on that, no matter what the cost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u37	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Pojbich. Microphone, Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u38	Mr Vice President, I apologize. First of all, I would like to say that the amendment tabled by the United Left will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The other thing that seems important to me, and it is right to draw attention to it, is very difficult for me to go into my ears, because I have not heard it for how many years, because I am four mandates in the National Assembly to stand up to work, to work, to work, to work, to be in every government, and we have no scissors and canvas in our hands. Well, that's not really an excuse, according to my personal judgment. The fact is that scissors and canvas are in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also a coalition, and I would expect that it would not then be possible for Members who are in the government coalition or from the Government to hear that some things cannot be done. Yes, if he had arguments for this, if he argued that it was not possible to do so for these and these reasons. And when we talk about this problem that we are talking about today, about this law when we talk about these most vulnerable groups, and these are pensioners of 200, 300, 400, 500 Euros of pension, it seems to me that there should not be a moment that we do not understand that all of us sitting in this House are responsible for helping these people to find solutions for them, to help them, to survive from month to month or from the beginning of the month to the end of the month. Those who try to tell these people that they can't be helped, I won't fall for it. You remember a little bit back. So many and so many billion in banks, bank hole, TES 6, half billion, three quarter billion stolen money, just like in banks, that I don't say what happened in Cimos, how much money was in there. He's nowhere now! Well, if anyone mentions TES 6, I'd like to ask you to say a few words about the joke lobby. It's an SD party. Let's not talk about the proposed second track now. Let's not talk about health corruption. Not to talk about corruption in the social system. And please, that's a few ten billion euros. If at least a small fraction of this money were given to these poor pensioners who have 200, 300, 400, 500 euros, today we would not say that we are fighting for them, that they will have 500 euros in full-time pensions, full-time pensions and full-time pensions for 40 years of pension work 500 euros. If we had only a fraction of that money, these full-time pensioners should have a minimum, as Erjavec, a thousand euro pension, once said. And we could have if that money were here. These people have a minimum of 500 or 600 euros, all 200, 300, 400, 500, etc. This would be the victory of this Parliament, of this policy, no matter who sits in what kind, who is writing and what color is who. This would be our common victory and then citizens, pensioners and pensioners would say, look, it doesn't matter whether it's Desus or SD or it's SDS or it's any party, but ha, you're really fighting and helping Slovenian people to survive. And that would be a victory, and that would be the real solution. That would be the right approach. What you're doing right now, you pre-election mints, and thank God, at least you don't have anything else from this government because they're taking fire solutions. When a problem arises, one that escalates slightly or one of the groups presses on this government and squeezes it into a corner, just like the pensioners' society or the ZDUS or whatever, I apologize, I think the ZDUS, and then the government had to react and Desus had to react. Otherwise, it would have been if this government had filed this law so that party Desus would have filed this law or any other party. But he put in the ZDUS. Thank God! Please make nice, he made ZDUS, but it doesn't matter, please, the same story, and now don't convince me to do something that you can't convince me to do, you're wasting your time, buddy from Desus. However, this is also not a fundamental question for me, and now I do not intend to deal with who is in which party and which party is more obliged to care for any group of people in our society. We're all responsible together, not just Desus. I'm not going to attack Desus here either, and I'm not attacking him. All of us who sit in this House owe it to us, but the scissors and canvas are in the hands of the Government and the government coalition. Today, the minister simply allows herself here in the National Assembly and says that the SDS is guilty of abolishing state pensions. How can he declare such a false statement? When you know exactly who he was. that this was Borut Pahor's government and that this lady was sitting as State Secretary in the Ministry of Labour. And you know what would be the best solution and the best step, an important step towards reducing the risk of poverty in Slovenia? In order for this government to leave its position at this time, to sit on the Falcon and drive away perhaps for the next 20 years or 30 years from Slovenia, so that the Slovenian state can function normally. This would be a great, best, first, most quality step in the interests of Slovenian citizens and citizens, in the well-being of pensioners and pensioners, every individual who lives here in Slovenia. And we can say what we want. We can fool around here as much as we want if nothing changes. It's not important. Firefighters' solutions are too small. I am terribly glad that some pensioner has only received 20 euros in his pension. But that's essentially not enough. What about the 250, 300, 400, 500? What about him? We have 780 thousand or so pensioners. How many percent of these pensioners live below the poverty line? And today we're saying we're helping out a number of 45 grand. Out of 780 thousand pensioners. And that's some story. I'm saying, thank God we're helping them, thank God. I am proud, and we will also support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. But what about the others? Do you think the other pensioners who have 200, 300 euros in pension have a smaller stomach than those who have 500 euros? They don't have to pay for electricity, they don't have to pay for water, they don't have to pay for waste and all that? No, it's not. They have the same problem. Therefore, if we are already taking money from the budget, this money should be allocated to all those most vulnerable to this point. However, we should not talk about the fact that those who have worked hard for 40 years have been doing a decent job earning 500 euros of pension. That's below every level. But the reality is that. Today, Joseph Horvat discussed very well in the part where he said that we have the only possible solution if we want to move forward in this area to give the economy a chance in our society, where we will have jobs with higher added value, but not jobs on minimum wages and will never get a higher pension, they will not get better pensions because they cannot get it because they will not pay very little to pay in pension bills. This is where we have to solve the problem. I think this is the problem of this society, this country and the leadership of this government and this coalition that it is now. What happened was, we can't change things back. You can't change things back. Today we can say what we want, which government has done something wrong, okay. At the moment the situation is such and the scissors and the canvas has the government of Mira Cerar, which has done less than nothing at the moment. She's done great damage to this society, this country of ours. Long-term. The question is, when can someone fix it and how long will it take? Just as the government of Borut Pahor did when it owed 10 or 9 billion in three years. Not to mention Alenka Bratusek, which is a shame to lose words. And today he comes here to Parliament and he's smart enough to explain to all of us how ah and all. Let's take a look at the results of the part, I hope that the Slovenian people will see this, that such a disgrace will not back up again in the next national elections. I'm telling you, please, if this law is already here, it's going to be 100 percent supported today, which is great, but the government coalition has a year to go before the end of the election. Let him prepare another better solution so that those with 200, 300, 400 or 500 euros will also have better conditions for survival or survival.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u39	Sir, Franz Jursha, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u40	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! An interesting debate, too, I am pleased that you are all debating in the direction of supporting this proposal. When we care for the older generation, we must be aware that sooner or later we will all get there. Some of us are here or very close, some of us will once in a lifetime. And people with low pensions must be having a hard time. This government, despite the fact that you are some in the debate, would have told me on Styria, symphated, decided to take a certain step. You know, I've been looking at the results of the reconciliation of pensions in the past, and I have to say that some periods, regardless of who was in charge, were borne by the government that there were no coordinations. Some even discuss this issue socially and direct this government and Desus, who is mainly concerned for the older generation, also with its programme, which has been written and adopted by the relevant authorities of the party, that Desus has been in the government constantly and that it has not been realized, as it should be, and I must say that the main canvas of the great shear has the largest customer. I am convinced that it would also be wise in the future for the area covering this population to be covered by the most powerful party with a financial minister at the same time. Then it will be a little easier for those of us who propose things if we are followed by a team working at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The threshold of poverty, we know how much and I think it is, and I am sure that this very threshold of poverty should also be the lowest pension that we now raise to EUR 500. But in this independent Slovenia, no one had ever thought of going before, but made a move. It is easy to say when you are not so responsible for the implementation of the budget, for the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. That's when it's the easiest thing to suggest. But when you actually have an obligation to coordinate it, then you take gradual steps. I am confident that we will take some more gradual steps to bring this issue into line in the future, so that we can make this pension, which we are raising for the full working time today, no matter what period of retirement, by law, as full a pension as possible, so that we can also coordinate it in the future and bring it to a higher level. This is our common victory, and I want you to feel that way too, to try to be as objective as possible in your debate. And I have to tell you, sharing candy, yeah, listen, because our voters will forget that until next year when the election. It's not like we're sharing candy. That's what we have to give these people without sharing candy. That's how I understand things. But if you don't understand it, then let it be what you think it is. I am pleased, as I have already mentioned, to support all Members and Members of Parliament, of all the groups of Members. However, I must say that some people should not forget that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that we are a social state and that we must somehow aim in this direction so that we do not deviate too much from this social state. You know, a lot of people take advantage of the social state. In many cases, however, many of these social states are also needed because they simply cannot function differently. We need to understand that in this context some may actually be exploiting it. However, it is crucial and very important that we ensure that as many citizens and citizens as possible, young people are employed. That's the key. I'm sure in a few years, maybe a year and a half, we'll get to the level we were at in 2008. But things are moving slowly. It's not all at once. We must be patient in dialogue, in thinking, that is crucial, and give a positive message to citizens and citizens that it will be better in the near future. Look, in the whole story, when we're talking about pensions, we can't pass, and I'm also going to point out this thing, that in this government, we have achieved three-fold coordination, that there will be another one in the fall, that we have harmonised pensions of 2.25%. In some past years, nothing has been coordinated and the colors of the government have been different, so you must not report this to this government without doing anything. In two years, we have also paid for the annual allowance, which is said to be a regression to those who have up to €750 in pension, and to those who have more than €750 in pension this year. This is some achievement and progress. I hope that next year, when, in this way, the savings through the ZUJF, which we have also adopted in this Chamber, will be regularly coordinated and there will be no more such savings on pensioners. Alone and in our parliamentary group and in our party, we are very much thinking about starting this process in the future, so that the pensioners who have contributed enormously in this economic crisis will be brought to the point of harmonising and covering the differences they have lost in the years of saving. This is something that we are thinking about, and we are going to start these things up in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u41	Mr. Andrey Chus has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. A well-respected coalition, especially the ruling Party of the modern centre. I have to say, ever since some serious opportunity came along and a mention of early elections, you've become very sweet. Even by getting sugar next to it. But you need to be consistent about this, and what you advocate for the first day and before the elections, you need to defend yourself further, not to turn the board — today so, tomorrow otherwise. Even in fact, we can say that the largest customer in the country is called Where the wind blows. And that's how I think the coalition works. I will begin by congratulating the Union of Retired Slovenia. I support these efforts and also this law, which has entered into the parliamentary procedure. I also agree with the establishment of a minimum pension. However, if we also want to talk in Slovenia about reducing social differences between people, we must, as a policy, make sure that we have legislation in Slovenia that will also allow it. Today we have an absurd situation when people work, and they're poor, not only a lower class, but also a middle class. In fact, the middle class is disappearing from day to day and, on the other hand, we give some income reform to those who already have the most. By the way, thank you, I have also received a slightly higher salary as a Member, but the question is whether this is the right solution. In addition to setting a minimum pension of EUR 500 by this law, I think that if we talk about some justice in the area of pensions, now let's be realistic, a worker who spends 40 years in cash will never get what he paid in cash because it's kind of a black hole that swallows up so we don't talk about others. Here too, in my view, we should make a relationship between the lowest and the highest pension. I'm just thinking here, and I'm also proposing for future reflection to determine the ratio between the lowest and the highest pension in the ratio of 1 to 2. I think this would move us one big step forward when we talk about eliminating poverty among pensioners. And that would also make life easier in the fall of life. But I have to look the other way. Pensions will be higher if they pay more, and we must also make sure that we create conditions, less red tape, lower taxes and more jobs. Only new jobs will ensure that the pension register is filled more. When we discuss that there is no longer a crisis, there is a point of reflection that has been heard many times today, but why we still have austerity measures when we return value added tax to both levels at a pre-crisis level. I think it was a temporary measure at the time, but in Slovenia, temporary measures seem to last as long as possible. However, if we want to think a little and talk about intergenerational solidarity, then a drastic change in the pension system will be necessary. Not only in the system, but also in the thinking. If you ask my peers today, we can also go to 18-year-old high schools or 30-year-old high schools if they believe they'll ever get a pension. I think 80% to 85% are those who say they'll never see it, get it, so they're not motivated to get a job or pay for it. As a result, there will be an intergenerational conflict sooner or later, which must be prevented. And I've bit my tongue a few times now in the debate, but I'm speaking from the field and also from my peers, and I'm not punching anything. So the next pension reform needs to consider limiting the lowest and highest pension to a ratio of 1 to 2 and also how to motivate young people to even think about seeing a pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u43	Mag. Matthew Tonin, please, you're next.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u44	Dear Members, Members, good afternoon! I support this bill, which raises the lowest pension for 40 years at least EUR 500, but I am sure that this is not enough. Too little, if the state is setting the poverty threshold at €617, then I think that even in this House should in some way be our guide so that an individual in this country can survive normally. I think that Slovenia is still such a rich country that it should ensure that pensioners earn a decent pension after 40 years of work, with which they can live normally and also survive. However, I am also convinced that some normal and decent pensions in the current pension system cannot be guaranteed, whether Desus is in all governments or in no government. I have repeatedly given information that since Desus was in government, pensions have fallen by 16.5%. This is the information provided by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. I am not saying this in order to criticize Desus, but because I say that it is not possible to provide a decent pension for all Slovenian pensioners within the existing pension system. For this reason, New Slovenia will present, after the first May holidays, a proposal for a pension reform, or changes to the pension system, which would provide at least EUR 617 to the pensioners, in a way that would not simply translate into the state budget. So the matter will be presented and drawn up in a way that will make our pension system as comfortable as possible as possible with this relationship between pensioners and employees. Today too, when we walk on the ground, a number of people may ask: “Hey, where is my money that I spent 40 years on my pension salary?” And it's clear that we have the exact pension system that this pensioner's money was nowhere to be charged, but it went to the same month to pay off. In the 1980s or 1990s, when 300 employees worked for 100 pensioners, it worked. Today, when there are 137 employees for 100 pensioners, things don't work anymore. It's a specific case. For a pensioner who receives EUR 600, they have to work or pay the contributions of three employees with a minimum wage. It's a relationship. And it is clear that under such circumstances you can still work so hard, you can have such good solutions, but it is not possible to provide decent pensions to pensioners. That is why our pension system needs to be changed in order to ensure that this sustainability ratio is less important because we do not have other options and options. If you look at the demographic indicators at least a little bit, they are not the most encouraging to Slovenia. Over the next ten years, we will have another pension boom, we will get as many as 100,000 additional pensioners, and if we do not adapt our pension system to this new demographic trend, then we can simply talk long and wide here, we will not be able to provide decent pensions. It is because it is uncomfortable to talk about these things, but in New Slovenia we have decided that we will come with a concrete proposal that the evidence will not fall, yes, you can, in the opposition, just say what we would provide to the pensioners, and then there is nothing to all of this. That is why we will demonstrate with concrete data, calculations and simulations that, by changing our pension system, we can make the system sustainable, and above all, that pensioners will receive decent pensions. At that time, we will be able to discuss in concrete and very precise terms how this Parliament or the National Assembly feels about this proposal. I hope that all Members will compete primarily with each other in good solutions and not in I will end up here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you, again, for your word. In addition to the sources that I have already listed and relate to, just a brief repetition, to the charges in tax havens to be taxed with 25%, the improvement of public procurement, from one place of public procurement for the whole public sector, there is still a whole range of other measures that we can implement immediately and immediately. This is the area of governance with so-called state property, which is not defined in the Constitution at all, but is actually private, private, common property of all citizens and citizens. And this property must be managed substantially differently than it is now. Firstly, a huge amount of resources is being channelled from all these companies, which are jointly owned by all citizens and citizens, for advisory contracts. Many of these advisory contracts are not intended to improve the business of an individual company, but to try to provide money to all those financial elites that have somehow organised themselves within the country to establish a mechanism for the exhaustion of these companies, of course for their own interests. This is one of the measures that we can take immediately. Of course, we cannot do it if we have such organised management of this common property of all citizens and citizens as is being done by the Slovenian State Holding. It is not possible and incomprehensible, it is unreasonable, in fact, that we have Mrs Lidija Glavina, the President of the Supervisory Board in Telekom, in this place, who is called the President of the Supervisory Board, and in fact determines what kind of salary she will have in the Supervisory Board and, last but not least, what salary she will have as the President of the Management Board. This is a completely flawed and destructive form of management of this common asset. We're losing millions of dollars here. And if we prevent only such procedures as the sale of the New Bank of Credit Maribor – that is, this bank was sold for 250 million – we invested 870 million in it – if we sold it at least at book value, we would survive at least 600 million. At a certain point, you earn or save and actually keep 400 million euros in your possession. And when you put these amounts together and add them up, you come up with billions of amounts that we have at our disposal right now, and we don't include them in the improved human situation, we don't include them in the promotion of investment, and we don't include them in the faster development of Slovenia and job creation. We have billions of amounts at our disposal, which we are literally scattering in a way that we are then trying to recover all of this by squeezing people. The stability programme itself and the reform agenda in Brussels speak only of the need for people to be squeezed by 2020, the minimum pension needs to be printed to a minimum, the minimum wage still needs to be below the poverty level. If we stop all these principles, we will also establish a so-called pension fund or demographic fund, as it is called, in which, in fact, the entire private property of people, the total property of people, from energy to logistics, namely, Luke Koper, Slovenian Railways and so on, to telecommunications, to insurance companies, banks, we will get a huge amount of capital that we can fertilize these 12 billion by investing this money in profitable companies abroad. Is it normal for us not to do this in Slovenia? All other countries buy our successful, strategic companies, exhaust these profits and create their potential for the pension system, only in Slovenia this is not the case. If we just prevent this, I assure you that no one in Slovenia will live below the poverty threshold, which must also be the goal, we do not need poverty at all, because we know how to manage it with all this money in a way that we can be at least as successful as Switzerland. Not because we are a tax haven, but because we create so much with our work and because we have created so much in history that we can still compete in the most successful markets with companies we have organised in a way that they are competitive, because we create as much as 70% of our GDP on the export market. So we have knowledge, we have the opportunity, we have the money that needs to be ripped out of these networks and put back into the budget, we have to give people back to become and feel, because they are, in fact, the owners of all this property and also the owners of the country. And when we ask them if we can pass a law that harms their situation, we will certainly not get committees. But we never asked them whether we can do what we are doing right now, and what we would say for decades is that it is really time to stop these procedures and allow everyone in Slovenia to live above the poverty threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this. I'm guessing yes, so I'm gonna have to ask you to sign up. The application shall be made. Mrs. Maria Bachič, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! As I listen to this debate today, I am very happy that despite the criticism, almost all of us agree that our pensioners, who have earned a full pension, will receive a minimum pension of 500 euros. It is true that this pension will be a little higher than it would have been if it were measured because they probably had a low salary in their active working age and paid low contributions accordingly. That is why I believe that this is the first step we have taken to confront these people in order to get at least EUR 500, although we are all aware in this Chamber that this pension should be higher, at least EUR 617, as we have said, but we are all aware that the pension box should not last for once. However, we are on the way to certainly looking for solutions so that we can improve this pension. We must all take this measure, and we all welcome it, because we are going to meet those who cannot live with dignity in their third life. I meet a lot of people on the ground and send them to the social work centre for a protective supplement. Also, those who have worked well for 40 years and have earned, say, €400,440 of pension, should be sent to apply for a protective allowance. Let me tell you, they're kind of too proud to go to ask for a social transfer because they were doing a decent job, but they didn't deserve a pension so they could make a decent living with it. Somehow they are to understand that they are not in line with those who have not actually earned an entire pension and are asking for this protective allowance. I therefore welcome this proposal in the hope that today, in the National Assembly, this proposal may be given a green light, and we can all be happy to announce to these beneficiaries that they will be with 1. Ten. 2017 will receive a pension of €500, which will still improve their social situation and will make it easier for them to live than they do today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u49	Mr. Miha Kordish, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you so much for your words, chairman! First of all, one more comment on the implementation of Minister Kopač Dark, which I left out in my previous intervention, is the following. The Minister acknowledged that the change in the protective supplement to the social transfer was a mistake, which is a positive finding, but then continued to try to remedy the error, which is unfortunately not entirely true. Anja Kopač Dark is Minister from 2013 onwards. Only at the beginning of 2017 did the properties of the coalition cancel the payments, not entirely and for all social rights. This should be added to the fact that at least three opposition proposals, something from the United Left, something from the SDS to eliminate this return from social transfers completely, of course the Ministry of Labour or the more honestly said Ministry of Employers kept the ear closed. If I go back to the amendments to the current law we gave in the United Left, here we have three main proposals. The first refers to early retirement. We propose to guarantee an early pension of 310 euros instead of the current 201 euros. Why are we suggesting this? In order to ensure that no pensioner should be asked for social assistance. And in that, our proposal does not take anything from anyone, but it does. It introduces an allowance for those of the poorest pensioners who have less than €310. I think that the measure is a suitable step in the direction of social justice, but still too small a step and we should take a more radical turn here, but unfortunately it has an apparently coalition establishment and its government with this slight change of problem and it is rejected by social justice, which is bizarre. No matter how much work someone has been doing, we cannot leave him in poverty with EUR 201, even EUR 310 per month is still poverty, but for EUR 100 less poverty. Our second proposal is that the beneficiaries of disability benefits also be granted a guaranteed pension. In case I make an example. Someone worked 20 years for a minimum wage, and then he got very sick. If he retires in half, he will receive a good EUR 300 salary and, in the government proposal, the disability pension will be measured at EUR 450, for example, according to our proposal, it will go from EUR 500. Thus, according to our proposal, this disabled person will have a higher compensation of €25 for disability. In this case we do not take anything from anyone, but only one of the most vulnerable groups in Slovenian society is given. I want to know why the government opposes it. Very concretely, why would such a strong problem be if the disability compensation was a dose of EUR 500, not a lower figure? In what way would this be socially unfair? And why would it be unfair for a widow's pension to go from 500 euros instead of 450 euros? Since I am reading all these measures from a reverse perspective, these are all measures that contribute to greater equality and greater justice in Slovenian society. If you want to or if you really want to do something for social justice, then raise tax progress for the rich and start working seriously to break the chastity.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u51	My colleagues, my colleagues, for the last time, would anyone else like to discuss it? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2A item of the agenda. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill amending the Public Finance Balance Act in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by Mr Andrej Chuš. With regard to this proposal amending the law, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee to Mr Uroš Poklo for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Prickl. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you very much, colleague German. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 5 April this year, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law amending the Law on the Balance of Public Finances, namely the ZUJF, which was submitted to the National Assembly and, of course, to the Committee by our fellow Member, Andrej Chus. He participated in the work of the Committee as a proponent, representatives of the Government, the State Council, the Legal and Legal Service, as well as representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative technical aspects and made some comments. The Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, in its opinion presented by Mrs Korva, also said that the proposal does not support the law. The proposal was briefly presented by the proposer, colleague Chuš, and highlighted the main objectives that were pursued in the drafting of this law. He also made his views known and presented by the representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. On the basis of the opinions expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service, which points out the key shortcomings, the Government and the Council of State, which do not support the bill, we have adopted nine votes in favour and three against the conclusion that the proposal for a bill amending the Public Finance Balance Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u53	In order to present my position on the proposal of my mother's working body, I give the floor to the bill's proposer, Mr Andre Couch.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u54	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In December of last year and January of this year, I collected suggestions from young people on the ground with youth organisations and young people, what bothers them most, what to do, what to do, what to improve, where they see some reserves themselves, to do something for young people. As a result, I have tabled five legislative proposals into the parliamentary procedure and, of course, one proposal for a recommendation. A large majority of this has already been addressed, and today we are looking at the novels of the Public Finance Balance Act. What is the purpose of this marriage anyway? In short and concise terms, the purpose of the amendment to the Public Finance Balance Act is to abolish student services and transfer their revenues, to talk about the amount of €9 million per year, to the newly created fund for paid traineeships. Why do you even want to do that? Student services are unique and special when we look at international legislation with other countries, and of course at the expense of student and student work they are very well used. While the revenues have fallen in recent years, it still amounts to EUR 9 million, and the country could, of course, also collect these revenues if the Employment Service were to become more engaged and committed to it. In fact, the occasional work of students and students can already be provided by the employment agency. This would not cause any damage, and the country would finally get some systemic source of funding and removal of volunteer traineeships. The Government itself has taken the decision not to support volunteer traineeships. In the National Assembly, however, it has already rejected three or four concrete proposals to eliminate volunteer traineeships at systemic level and, of course, to ensure stable funding. I regret to say that European funds are not a stable source of funding for traineeships, and with these €9 million per year, we could pay quite a few trainees per year without even talking about other problems relating to traineeships. Regrettably, most of the parties in the National Assembly and also in the Committee felt that the law was not appropriate. Somehow it seems to me that everything is going in the direction that student services continue to stay, so that they can somehow live comfortably at the expense of the work of students and students. I would like at least to see some other similar initiatives in the future so that the state starts not only to give, but also to create and acquire funds so that it can then reinvest in the form of a systemic source of funding for traineeships. I also sincerely hope that maybe someone is not opposed to this bill because some party might also be financed by student services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u55	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u56	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The main objective of the law, according to the proposaler, is a more equitable and fair sharing of money that students and students who work through the student service make possible and earned through their work. The aim of this law is also to get more money into the budget of the Slovenian Employment Institute when it comes to the temporary and occasional work of students and students. This money would, however, be devoted to the payment of professional training, traineeships and apprenticeships. This would result in students and students actually getting that money back when they were trained professionally for their work. The proposed law would, according to the proposaler's assessment, impose a number of works on the Slovenian Employment Institute, but claims that a number of procedures could be addressed via the Internet, which is close to young people. All concession fees, which go annually to various student services or to those authorised to provide occasional and temporary part of the students and students, would thus be allocated by this proposed law to the Vocational Training Fund for traineeships and apprenticeships. This item would be carried out by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Issues relating to the distribution of concession fees are always raised when dealing with student work. At this point, we call on the Government to examine the appropriateness of this division and on this basis propose changes that will come from the necessity of representing all students and students. In New Slovenia, we support the objectives of the proposed novel and we will vote against the proposal for a decision that it is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u57	Ms Janja Slug will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Chairman. At its 39th regular session, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons adopted the conclusion that the amendment of the Law on the Balance of Public Finance, which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure by fellow Member Andrej Chuš, is not suitable for further consideration. We have confirmed such a decision in the SMC Group of Members and, of course, we will also vote today. On the basis of the existing regulation, the applicant estimates that it is absolutely unnecessary for the temporary and occasional work of students and students to be provided by concessionaires or student services, provided that it is already stipulated by law that the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia is the one that governs this area. On this basis, a more equitable and fair sharing of the money made available and earned by the students and students, while the student work would be provided only by the institution, would result in more money being made available to the budget to pay for the vocational training of traineeships and apprenticeships. The bill, with the exception of the proposer, of course, does not support any of the remaining stakeholders. It is not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not supported by the State Council, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, it is not favored by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, so it is not favoured by young people who carry out student work. However, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also has doubts. The lawmaker did not even make an effort to answer the question about the purpose of the fund he wanted to establish. In fact, this demonstrates the unreality of the proposal, since the Fund for Vocational Training for traineeships and apprenticeships remains totally undecided, neither created nor specified its purpose or method of use, it is not clear in which areas for which purpose and for which vocational training, for which areas of traineeships and for which part of apprenticeship would be allocated. These are important questions which the bill does not provide any answers to. That's why we don't think it's going so well. The impregnableness of the proposal is also illustrated by the fact that the proposer for a meeting of the Committee has not at all tabled any amendments or provided some additional clarifications that would at least partially resolve those dilemmas. We ask ourselves whether the applicant wants only and only publicity in the first place and whether the content of the solutions proposed is in second or third place. The reason why the proposal for a law fell without anything and without discussion, as the motioner put it, does not concern the arrogance of the coalition Members, so that they would not want to listen to the proposal, and we could read it on social networks. In fact, the real reason is in the complete lack of seriousness and inadequacy of the bill proposed by the proposer. As has already been said, we do not support the proposal and we will vote in favour that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u59	Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Vice President. Have a nice hello again! In short, the position of the Desus Group on the proposal to amend the ZUJF is, of course, negative. The proposal of this law, which was submitted to the National Assembly of Coll. Chuš for adoption, refers to a change in the intervention of the student work, namely, student services following a new proposal, namely, that they should no longer perform this task. I'm supposed to take over, I'm speaking conditionally, of course, the employment agency. As a result, student services would no longer need part of the concession fee to cover the costs of the intervention of works. This part of the funding would be devoted to the vocational training of young people, for traineeships and the needs of apprenticeships. In the Desus Group, we find that we have before us one of the laws that could at least be welcomed by a great deal of imperfection and handiwork, which then, in the legislative process, turns out to be inappropriate for further consideration. Not because of its nature and absolutely unacceptable, but, of course, incomplete and inadequately prepared from an implementing point of view. In a specific case, it has been shown to be largely flawed because the applicant has not identified a specific fund to which a portion of the accrued resources from the student work concession fee would be indicated. Secondly, we also find it unacceptable from the fact that there is a reasonable doubt that the employment agency could carry out this task in such a way as to do so effectively during the night. In the wake of this, it is appropriate, according to our assessment, to maintain the existing situation and to mediate work to students and students. Given that intermediation works through student services nicely, solidly, well-run, it seems a shame to risk destroying this existing system. Last but not least, student work means a very important lever for young people to contact the labour market, which means a social collective, I say unfortunately, also a social collective for young people, especially those who do not have scholarships, and at the same time, through this form of work they get some rights from pension insurance. Remember, every job counts. In view of the above and because I said that I would be brief, members and members of the Desus Group therefore do not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u61	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Marija Bacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for the amendment of the Law on Public Finance Balance, which was tabled in the parliamentary procedure by independent Member Andrej Chus, cannot be supported in our parliamentary group. However, not because of the reason to oppose the idea of the law, but because the law in the proposed text is weak and does not allow the implementation of the key objective of the law, which, according to the proposaler, is that the money they make available and earned by the students and students working through the student service should be distributed more evenly and fairly. The proposer proposes that the intervention of part of the students and students be transferred to the exclusive competence of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, which according to him would also have positive effects on the state budget, as concession fees would remain in the budget and would be devoted to the payment of professional training, traineeships and apprenticeships. As has already been said, the very ideas in our parliamentary group are not unlovable, but unfortunately the proposed solution is the least misplaced and the most pervasive. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in its opinion, pointed out that there was no indication in the proposal that the intervention of parts in the exclusive competence of the institution would be, since Article 1 of the Law provides only for the calculation of part of concession fees and, secondly, that the proposal provides for a specific fund to which a portion of the allocated funds should be indicated, with this fund completely undeclared. The same concerns were expressed by the Government, which recalls that the proposal for a law does not change the system of temporary and occasional work of students and students, but changes only the system of concession fees and that the proposed solution does not regulate the conduct of the activities of concessionaires, but only directs part of the concession fees to which concessionaires are entitled in the current regime to a fund that does not exist. In view of all the shortcomings mentioned above, we cannot support this law, so we will support the Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u63	Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. In the United Left, we have been pointing out the issue of private intervention for a long time. These include student services which have obtained concessions for services which should otherwise be provided by the State. In this way, about €10 million per year in private student's pocket will disappear. According to data from the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, in 2015 students received 9 million €250,000. If we recalculate this amount, it would be enough for almost 50,000 monthly grants without allowances for the first income class or for more than 4 thousand beneficiaries per year. The revenue now paid in private pockets would be sufficient for the annual funding of scholarships of EUR 300 per year for about 2 000 500 students and students. Although there is already a legal basis for the intervention of the student work without unnecessary filling of the private pockets, the state in this place has knowingly refused to regulate the intervention of the student work and thus with the means that could be allocated to the scholarships, for example. The proposed change that we now have on the table does not, in fact, eliminate student services. However, in a rather generous way it can regulate cash flows and it also foresees state funding for employers from the fund, which otherwise does not define what benefits them. The proposer would grant the revenues for which it is legally stipulated that they are intended for scholarships in the form of subsidies for the payment of apprenticeship, traineeship and training costs to employers. That's unacceptable. The money from the student work must be distributed in a fair manner and in accordance with the needs of the most socially weak students and students. The solution, as proposed, cannot be supported in the United Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u65	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 2A item on the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on criminal procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this proposal, 52 Members and Members of Parliament, signed first by Dr Simono Kustec Lipicer, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which Dr. Bojan Dobovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u66	All those who accompany this meeting are respected! We have before us a very important point of strategic change in criminal law, but only legislation will not solve the problems ahead. It is necessary to adopt such laws as can be enforced. As many as three universities and their representatives, professors say, have warned that problems in the implementation of the law will arise, and have warned that constitutional violations of this law will also be possible. Elements of the inquisitorial system shall be introduced. We ended such a system in 1953 precisely because of the power and potential abuse of the police and the prosecution and for the protection of human rights. Now the acoustic system with these elements is being shut down. Many theoretical and practical questions are raised in this regard. The concept ahead of us did not take stock of the assessment of the situation, took into account the professions and proposed solutions. Moreover, the issue is that we can talk about the debate between the rule of law and its antipod, the police state. And it is in these elements that all the proposed changes in the coalition lead. It is important to ask whether we have a discourse between security and human rights on the other hand, but I do not think that there is a discourse between security and control. With this legislation, people will feel less secure, more afraid and more controlled. What's this all about? It is a matter of confidence in the police that will overwhelm the fear of the police, which is contrary to modern concepts of police work that go in the direction of plural police work linked to the local community. The measures just proposed put an end to this. The solutions are reflected in proposals already put forward by the opposition several times in the changes in the police, where we have less and less money, fewer professionals, more tasks and less and less invested in the profession. On the other hand, the State Prosecutor's Office does not exploit the legal conditions and cannot adapt to the current criminal situation, does not use joint and specialised investigation teams, but is even worse in the courts where we see that the criminal department, for example, has received more judges, and yet has solved fewer cases and fewer cases. Thus, organisational and other measures are necessary and the implementation of existing laws. But if changes are needed, we can reconcile them. If I conclude, it is our responsibility to adopt such legislation that will be enforceable. We must answer the question of what we want – the rule of law or its antipod, the police state where the measures are going. As I have already said, in 1953 they were asking exactly such questions as how to control the police and the prosecution and what the role of the courts is and what the role of the legislator is. It is not answered what is the role of the prosecutor who can answer key questions. There is no answer as to what evidentiary standards will be, problems will be encountered in implementing evidentiary standards and control mechanisms. We cannot support all the proposals referred to in the Communication from the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u67	Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u68	Dear Presidents, distinguished colleagues! The practice so far has shown some shortcomings in the regulation of criminal proceedings, mainly regarding the long-term course of the procedure itself. In the Modern Centre Party, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act brings a number of good solutions, particularly those relating to the treatment and protection of victims of crime. We welcome the amendment which introduces the possibility of separate opinions of the Supreme Judges and the solutions that apply the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Nevertheless, the novel also brings solutions that raise a variety of concerns for both the professional public and Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party. In particular, provisions relating to the hearing of a suspect which, following the proposed regulation, could be carried out without the presence of the defence counsel, provided that the audio and video are recorded, and provisions governing the possibility of a witness being heard, the court may, in so doing, base its decision on such a statement. With the solutions proposed, we cannot overcome the concerns that more abuse would be possible with the introduction of such a system. Our concerns are also at the expense of the dismissal of the judicial investigation. The investigation is a phase that has many positive properties. It often solves a complex issue, as well as guarantees of quality defence to the accused many times. We are wondering whether the abolition of the judicial investigation will really have an impact on the reduction of the entire criminal procedure and whether the concept of contradiction in criminal proceedings will not be undermined. Of course, it is not possible to overlook, even more, it is necessary to point out and point out that the profession, namely the prosecution, the courts, the lawyers and the police, is unitedly opposed to proposing the abolition of the judicial investigation. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act at the first stage of the hearing, but we expect a number of concerns and comments to be reconsidered in the further process of addressing the law and at the same time consider additional options and solutions within the existing regime, to which we will also attach our possible further support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u69	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u70	Thank you very much. In fact, we are dealing with an extremely important law. The Ministry's position was not heard, but the views of two of my predecessors were extremely short and I am even more concerned. But still, I'm going to be a lot longer in this position. I'm going to go after some sort of logical order, actually. Article 148a, first paragraph, the hearing outside the police or prosecution premises is virtually prohibited or almost impossible after a new one. This can be an obstacle to the work of prosecutors and police officers. However, I will devote the bulk of my time to article 149.b. To make it clear to you what I'm talking about, article 149.b discusses the conditions under which telecommunications managers send data to the police. But the telecommunications records. This means who called someone from a number or something, not the content of conversations or the content of an Internet message, if you want. This is therefore the so-called telecommunications data, not the content of this data. This article is, of course, extremely related to the Law on Electronic Communications, according to my assessment, and I should like to make one review of the situation in this area from Europe to us, if you wish. Of course, an appropriate regulation was adopted at the level of the European Union, which was later implemented in national legislation. And in some ways, this regulation provides for the possibility of providing telecommunications data to the police and the prosecution for worse crimes. For worse crimes. In Slovenia, I do not know which government, but it has implemented it in a way that the possible transmission of data to the police was practically for all crimes. Practically for all crimes. Then, at the level of the European Union, this Regulation was repealed and, as a result, our Court also repealed Articles 162 to 169 of the Law on Electronic Communications. According to my assessment at this point, in this regard I have also asked the Government the question of the Member State, there are no legitimate reasons for the police to be able to obtain this information at all. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has said that telecom operators must destroy all data. He specifically ordered this matter. With us, the Supreme Court has made a decision to continue sending this information to the police and the prosecution, but it is intended to send the information that the telecommunications administrators are guided by for other reasons. But these are, let's say, the reasons until you pay the bill, and if you object to the bill, they'll tell you, no, no, it's not true, then you phoned there, then you phoned there, then there, then there, that's why. And this information is being transmitted to the police today in accordance with this article, because that is the decision of the Supreme Court. But I'm responsible here today, and I'm going to say, with this pay phone, I'm going to point out the time when the Constitutional Court will decide. Indeed, a whole series of proceedings are pending before the Constitutional Court, and I am confident that the Constitutional Court will repeal this provision and that we will witness the mass of dropped criminal proceedings in which there has been an exchange of information between the operators and the police or the prosecution in the manner interpreted today by the Supreme Court. As an example, although it is not related, Vice-President, on this very subject, but as an example, I do not know if you remember, Members, at least the older ones, in 2012, when we had one intervention in the area of Lithuania, when the court sold the house to a certain person – you will remember, Mrs Porotat – who was responsible, I think, 250 euros. But the court sold the house to this person. Look, today the Strasbourke Court has decided that we will pay 85,000 euros due to a court's error because human rights have been violated. I also predict in this case that there is a high likelihood that the Constitutional Court will cancel and that a series of criminal proceedings will fall due to misinterpretation by the Supreme Court. But let me get back to this marriage. We have a new 149.b. in front of us today. And now the proposer says that this article is reordered so that it is only a matter of worse crimes. But the proposer put the border at one year in prison. If you take it, at least that's what those who know a little better the matter that we have about 15% of the sentence under one year in prison or cash, but all the rest is one year in prison and more. It is said that this limit, in my opinion, has been placed, since you have also expressed some doubts, essentially too low. Substantially too low. In order to compare it, for example, Germany, which is referred to here as a bit absurd. But if you look at any other documents, you will see that Germany has also adopted amended legislation after the repeal of the EU regulation in this area. And do you know what crimes are at stake with them? Those levels of destruction of constitutional order, murders, murders and so on and so on. And there's no crime left. I emphasize, and there are no other crimes. Here it will be absolutely necessary, in my opinion, that then, in the second reading, of course, things become higher, in my opinion. The next thing that's a little bit - I don't know if the proponents have missed it, I now have some kind of debate that is more academic than political. I'm supposed to have a little flair for the proponents, but I won't. In 149.b., you now have reason to suspect. Reasons for suspicion and then information can be given to you. In article 150a, this is an IMSI-catcher, and you have reasonable grounds for suspicion. If you take this, it's bullshit. [[…]] The police will first identify your phone number as you have, with the help of IMSI-Catcher, and must be given reasonable grounds to suspect that you have committed a crime. After the police get the 149.b traffic data, the operator's communication data, it's a simple suspicion. It should be the other way around, if that's the case. There's a reasonable suspicion here, but there's a suspicion there. I think it's absolutely necessary for the matter to be settled. There's something else. The motioner says he's aligning this with the constitution. I don't think it's well-coordinated with the constitution, especially with that article, 38. Then you have to say this. For example, see article 149.b, which is now bound to one year in prison, as I said, i.e. one year in prison, includes the abuse of the official position. Therefore, it is now envisaged that, with the abuse of the official position, telecommunications managers will have to provide such data. But you can't actually make the abuse of an official position any different than signing an act. You're abusing the situation by signing an act, otherwise there can't be a crime. And why would we use the phone records here now to call France, Jožet, Micko and so on? It's not consistent. The whole article, in my opinion, must go for these reasons for suspicion of reasonable grounds of suspicion, at least in my opinion. And, of course, much higher. It would be the best standard if we tied it all together to paragraph 150. I am primarily referring to wiretaps, so it is possible to provide this communication data for the same reasons as the reasons for the wiretap. Although, of course, neither the police nor the prosecution are likely to disagree. However, I'm afraid our case may fall in the Constitutional Court and go back to a small series of proceedings. The third paragraph provides for an oral order for the transmission of data, which means that the Prosecutor calls the operator and says, "Give me these and these data." Look, the operators are up against it. Why? After all, I can say I'm the prosecutor on the phone and I say, "Give me the information for Mrs. Popot." Wait a minute. How does an operator know I'm really the prosecutor? How would he know that? He can't know if I'm calling and I'm pretending to be a prosecutor. Here the matter needs to be settled, in my opinion, in the way that we will stay with the current written orders or possibly with a secure electronic mail, that the operator knows exactly, yes, if it came by secure electronic mail from there and there, then the matter is possible. To get a message through secure e-mail, I'll say. This is the part that I think needs to be settled. The fourth paragraph is even problematic. Why troubled? I'm talking about 149.b. For that reason, because look, the situation is a little funny now. The operator can give the data, the operator can now, on the proposal, say, no, we will not give this information to the police, we will not give it to the prosecution, but we will give it to the court. Operators are against it. Why are they against it? As they say, we must not have the legal right to judge what we will give the police, what we will give to the prosecution, and so on. The law must be effective to give the operator information to him and to him. It's over. And he can't be an arbitrator operator. The fourth paragraph even provides that the operator shall inform the person under certain legal conditions, of course, that such data and such data have been given. Operators are against it again. And they're right, in my opinion. Let whoever's got the information be informed. The operator can't have anything to do with this. It is not even clear whether it is automatic or on request or how it is. All of this is also pointed out by operators to the President of the Justice Committee. So I suggest that the members of the committee really look at what the operators say because I think they're right. They want to limit themselves, and they are probably right to be limited. 149. p.m., second paragraph, the operator or service provider of the information society may send the information for reasoned reasons to the court at its expense instead of to the police and the prosecution. That's the part I was talking about earlier. The operator can't judge what he's going to give the prosecution, what he's going to give the police, and he can't decide, and I'm not going to give it to the court, but I'm going to give it to the court. This, in my view, is not possible, but the matter must be clearly defined and the operator cannot be an arbitrator. He just can't be an arbitrator. Let me point out at this point, because I still have plenty of time, for one more example in this area. In fact, an example of the operation of our system, of this police and prosecution system connected to the operator. A few years ago, we had a case of a crime that was very resounding in the Slovenian space, and the police and the prosecutors were either wandering in the fog or in the dark. She didn't get to the perpetrators of that crime. That's why they sent a request to the D.A. to have the operator give all the telecommunications data to everyone who was on the designated transmitter. All that were on the designated transmitter. That's strictly illegal. It was explicitly illegal at the time, and today it would be if we handed it over. You can't ask the police and the D.A. for, say, 25 days. 4. All the data from everyone, I'll say, the users of the phone, say, from the transmitter on Maximarket. But the legislation is such at the moment, and it was then that such information could give for a specific phone or a specific number, an IMEI number or a telephone number. So, the police must first ask you to give us the information or this and this phone number was at the same time on the Maximarket transmitter. You can do that. And you know what happened in that case? Prosecutors shall request an order from the investigating judge. So, the prosecutor who made the decision went absolutely against the law, and he acted unlawfully. So you don't think the case stopped at the judge's. I'd say, because now the judge is going to say that he's not the legal basis for an order. That would be a normal expectation. Do you know what happened? The judge issued the order, the judge issued the order. So, the police, the D.A. and the judiciary, they all figured it out, they all acted unlawfully. Everyone, I emphasize. Then the operator found himself talking about this relationship between the operators – the prosecution – a court where there is an expert, I say to him, wrote the answer: “Investigative judge, you do not have a legal basis.” You don't have a legal basis, he answered the investigating judge nicely. If the judge had given the order legally, then the operator could have been fined. At least that's the way it is, but it's not. You know what she did? She wrote a letter to the police and the prosecution: “In addition we send you the operator’s response.” That's how this system works. So the operator ensured the legality violated by the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. Therefore, the president and the members of the committee, I think, on what the operators are writing, should think very carefully about what we are going to do. Article 149(4), paragraph 4, shall also be communicated to the operator. The operator has nothing to inform. The operator must comply with the provision. Information should go through those who demand data, which means prosecutions, police, the judiciary or whatever. The so-called IMSI-catcher is now subject to the law of article 150a. So-called IMSI-catcher. To know what it is, these are some of the equipment the police bought in 2004. Today is the year 2017, when we create the legal basis for its use. It's a crazy country or whatever. As far as IMSI-catcher is concerned, I have always been in the position that it must be defined in the law and allowed to do so. But IMSI-catcher is a matter that works roughly to tell about those who don't know what it is for an animal. You could say that, it's a very simple apparatus that takes on the role of a transmitter. And now I like comparisons, and I'm going to take Mrs. Popot back in case I don't think anything bad, and I could take you. Let's say the police want to find out what your phone number is. This apparatus is set up here somewhere near Parliament and there's 50,000 numbers up here, and then you put this apparatus at your home and it gets caught there, I don't know, 3,000 numbers, but yours has to be here and there, everyone else is irrelevant. Then we go to a third location, say you go to a doctor at a clinical center and they know that's where they put it. And then it's almost impossible not to get to just one number, that's yours. This is how this apparatus is used. For the first time, we now have legitimate reasons for using IMSI-catcher, even though I have ordered all the ministers in the last 10 years, as I recall these things, even from the time of the ministry or from the court documents, not to use this apparatus at the time. We've all done this, and from Mr Matei to – I know that I am, how it was behind me, I don't know. Now you usually find in the trial files that an unknown person told a criminalist named Franzo what the number is, say, Mrs Porotat. Sort of. I don't believe them. I think they're using IMSI-catcher. I'll tell you what my phone number or your phone number is. You find this in almost all the court records, and an unknown person has entrusted the police with a phone number for this. Courts don't deal with it, they don't worry about anything, probably strangers are so generous. But it's not like that, I think. I think these machines are used, but if I don't have proof, I don't know. Now the main thing I have to say at this point. There are two things I want to say. 158.a., I greatly commended the amendment to Article 158a at the presentation of ministers. This is simply the case – and some did not agree with me, I know that they did not agree – that the crimes committed by the police are not dealt with by the criminal police, but are dealt with by the special department of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. But look, we've got there now, now we've got one absurdity. Now it's about all the crimes. All crimes, including those outside the office. Let's say a policeman has a carambole and there's some minor bodily injury, yes, it's a crime, surely, this special department is dealing with it. And we are the only ones in Europe who have such arrangements. The only one. We have so many private police officers and criminals, of course. That is why I welcome this 158a article and I agree that this should be limited, but, Secretary of State, listen to me, you have now restricted the use of powers in time of service. That's what I think is too narrow. I agree that if this is a crime in the use of powers in official time, it is too narrow for me. And now I'm going to make a banal case to make you understand. What if there was a crime of rape suspected of being a police officer? Rape as such is a crime, but a police officer does not use the authority to do so and has committed a classic crime. And in that case, his colleagues would have dealt with him. I therefore propose that this should be regulated in such a way as to ensure that this is related to the job, not only to the exercise of powers. I think it needs to be arranged this way, because I think it's too narrow now. Too narrow. Designated only for the exercise of powers. I think it's necessary to take a wider look at cases like this that I've told you. And now to the hardest part of my performance today. in a way. This is, of course, an investigative judge in the pre-trial procedure and a letter signed by Drs. Dežman, Gorkič and Erbežnik. Three professors of three different law schools talking about the Inquisition process. I have to say, I was surprised at the contents of this letter at first, and I looked at it a little bit fat, and then I read it all over again because I first read it. And when I first read it, it was so strange for me, I said, "What these people don't know is that there is no investigating judge in the predictive process anywhere in Europe." And he really isn't. The Bosnians, Croats, Serbs have already removed the investigating judge in the pre-trial proceedings, in short his role. But when you read this letter, you will find that there is plenty of salt in this letter, that is, quite rightly so. In fact, our programme says so, and this is what I have talked a lot from the speaker about the need to delete the role of investigating judge in the CAP. That's what our program's supposed to be. But now back to the letter, you have to say this. The proposal for the law we have does not completely delete the role of the investigating judge. Not completely deleted, but only for certain cases. When a criminalist turns the camera on, and the person who is being questioned agrees with this, this will be recorded, it would have a evidentiary value under certain legal conditions, and there is no need for an investigative judge. In the case of a problem which is and where these gentlemen are most likely to be right, the situation is also clear. If you delete the role of an investigative judge, which I think should be entirely, not only in certain cases, you need to complete the role of the prosecution and the police – and this is lacking in this law. And quite a change in the role of the prosecution and the police in this predictive process. A lot of change. First of all, to put up security guards, because if you don't set these guards up, because the current law doesn't make them, then of course we can see that these three professors are actually right. If I'm going to some bold predictive procedure now, and I'm going to take the one from 2010 when this house is practically occupied by the police – not to say what it would be like in any other country, it's possible for us, even the president of the National Assembly allows it, for example, the current ones do not allow it elsewhere – then it was one thing, called the Eagle Gmajna, if you remember, the Minister of Agriculture from the SD quota, that is, they're pretty much locked up or detained around there, and Jelinčič was driving around the reserved and so on and so on and so on. After four years, however, all guilt is forgiven. Who's gonna pay them back their losses, their reputations, and what else? Who? Four years they've been criminals. If I put this back on this pre-trial procedure or the role of an investigative judge, today there are some guardians that the suspect has certain guarantees, let's say in certain cases, an insight into the prosecution's documents. In certain cases. If we delete the role of the investigating judge in this way, as is currently envisaged, then I fear that we have come to a similar situation as described by these three professors, and it does not suggest that we ignore them. If I finish, I'll say it like this. At this stage of marriage, we cannot support it. It's not real. But we expect that what the coalition has announced will happen, earlier, Mrs Korenjak, that you will sit thoroughly for about a month or two or two in the summer, put the story in a drawer, strain the brain and go through the articles again and prepare the matter for the committee in such a way that it is digestible to be acceptable. Then I see no reason why we should not reconsider this law and possibly give him the support on the committee if the changes in the direction I was talking about go. But the subject is extremely sensitive. Extremely sensitive. In particular, Article 149b. Do not let ourselves down in that we will have as low standards for the application of Article 149.b as are now envisaged, because once again the matter will be contrary to and with the regulation and thus, of course, the Constitutional Court can repeal Article 149.b. At the same time, we must not overly tie our hands to investigators and prosecutors, because we already know where we are, what success we are. One smart balance will have to be found, and I want the coalition to really think about the law and change it thoroughly until the second treatment, so until the committee's hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u71	The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear and venerable all present! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, which we are considering today, has already been subject to a number of changes in the past, but the desire to end the judicial investigation has already emerged during the first government of Janez Janša, which was at the time when Mr Lovro Šturm was Minister of Justice. At the time, however, the proposal was not submitted for consideration by the National Assembly, because time was running out. The National Elections were at the door. The trend then continued at the time of Minister Plicanič's ministerial meeting, which for this purpose appointed a twenty-member working group whose task was to draw up an expert opinion on the new Criminal Procedure Act. If we draw the line, we can say that the idea of recasting the criminal procedure has not been created solely within the mandate of Justice Minister Klemenčič, which has been discussed for almost a decade. There are always concerns as to whether the changes and additions brought by the proposal of the law are really necessary. Even in the Desus Group we do not have a completely uniform opinion on this. Thus, the gradual discontinuation of the judicial investigation would significantly reduce long-term criminal proceedings. The suspension of the judicial investigation is a major procedural, systemic and organisational change in the criminal procedure, which is increasingly present on behalf of efficiency. Finally, it was introduced in Croatia. The experience of Croatia and of other neighbours is that of Austria, where they suddenly discontinued the judicial investigation and had several postpartum problems, and the reason why the justice ministry introduced an intermediate stage in the proposal, after which the hearings in the pre-trial procedure would also be of evidential value for the subsequent trial. This would take the first step towards the late termination of the judicial investigation. In the event of a suspect being questioned, he would, of course, have a mandatory right to an attorney, but if he rejected him, the hearing should be a mandatory audio or video. Also in this news, many questions have been raised, such as whether the suspect will admit the guilt of pressure in front of the cameras, and again, whether this is not a more welcome way, as both an individual and a witness will be more likely to target the victims of sexual offences, to be heard as few times as possible, and the prosecution will be able to decide more frequently in connection with the termination of the judicial investigation to file a direct indictment. So without a judicial investigation, which it is, I must stress, we are not entirely putting an end to this proposal for now. Otherwise, only the conditions for initiating the investigation shall be regulated. And again, the investigation is not over. In fact, only the possibility of covert investigation measures is strengthened where, in the circumstances of the case, there is no need for an investigation, it is said at home where sufficient evidence is collected for the continuation of the criminal procedure. As a result, the request for an investigation will only have to be more justified. However, it is not to be forgotten that an investigation is not required after the current regulation if a prison sentence is prescribed for up to 8 years. It is worth saying that the bill brings many other welcome changes and additions. Let me just give you a few. Clearer and simpler arrangements for faster collection of data by banks, savings banks and other financial institutions have been strengthened, the protection of a journalist's source in criminal proceedings has been strengthened, further legal persons and entrepreneurs as advertisers or investigators of criminal offences will no longer be limited by the obligation to protect the confidentiality of information relevant to the criminal complaint and, more importantly, the conditions for justified absence from the main proceedings or individual procedural actions for health reasons will be tightened. Since in practice, with a view to delaying proceedings, it has proved difficult to serve judicial acts to individuals, the service will be carried out by detectives and executioners. We support all these changes in the Desus Group because we believe that this is an important tool against delaying proceedings, which is a real problem in the Slovenian judiciary. However, some dilemmas remain open and we expect appropriate answers. In view of the above, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the majority of the bill proposal at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u73	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of the Party of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, to the extent that he insists on this relatively difficult topic! Why am I saying this in the introduction? To make it clear what we are dealing with today. It is not a technical or simple law, it is an extremely important matter, which we have changed in the Republic of Slovenia for the 14th time since the original Criminal Procedure Act was adopted in 1995. Therefore, despite the fact that I am coming out of the coalition, I must first express my disappointment at the fact that we have not heard the Government's presentations, and I am counting on the fact that at least an important part of what has been pointed out in the presentation of the parliamentary groups, the Secretary of State will very precisely explain, explain and answer important questions, if possible, with amendments, at least part of what Dr Gorenak said in his presentation. If I take the very view of the position of the Group of Social Democrats. We welcome the fundamental purpose of adopting this law, which seeks to increase the effectiveness of prosecution of crimes and which in some way follows the evolutionary change in prosecution and its proceedings, and, unlike some of the previous amendments and the addition of this law, attempts to make this a comprehensive exercise in order not to change this law too often and to succeed in its current amendment only in order to effectively resolve all the key and fundamental issues. In fact, the 14th time in more than 20 years to amend the Criminal Procedure Act, of course, is not a good trip for the impression that the state, the rule of law, works well. Therefore, it is our fundamental belief that we must take this law and its consideration very seriously and that we must also get to the law, which will allow its continued implementation for a long period of time for a term, and prevent the need for us to amend it 14 more times in the next 20 years. The transfer of powers of inquiry from the court to the prosecution and the police in this regard seems one of the most important steps to increase the effectiveness of prosecution of the most serious crimes. Of course, there is a logical objection to the system we know today that, in the wake of this change in fear, it may be justified, perhaps unjustifiable, whether it will result in an excessive interference with fundamental human rights, privacy, the right to an adequate and fair defence and, therefore, investigations. It is therefore crucial, as has already been pointed out, that at least the role of the court as a fundamental guarantor is still to be maintained, in the event of the use of a hearing by the Prosecutor's Office or the police in the pre-trial procedure, and that the legality of the whole procedure is still to be safeguarded. What has been less stressed, however, is that the law addresses one of the issues that also speaks of the conceptual perception of criminal proceedings by the State, by the authorities. This is that we regulate, on a case-by-case basis, provisions that provide for a degree of security, as well as recognition of the status in the procedure, and thus the appropriate treatment of the victim of the crime, and in the event of death, to family members, partners, in short, those who are most affected by the crime service. This is an important part of the transposition of the European Directive into our legal order and in this respect it is changing, evolutionaryly again, the very concept of prosecution. The topic that has been discussed both by operators, civil society and the majority of parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary groups, this is about the hunters that the Slovenian police have had for almost a decade and their use has not yet been regulated, of course, both in this debate and further in the process, if it comes to it, we will talk a lot. There remains a fundamental dilemma whether we can even allow this use in the way technology allows it today. Certainly, however, we must not overlook the fact that it is more logical that if certain technology exists to investigate criminal prosecutions, we properly regulate this by law than by maintaining the situation that we have today, as Dr. Gorenak has said, we can rightly suspect that this is often used, that it is far from being used and that it is not a technology “in the drawer” but that it is a technology that is used in the grey zone of law and that it is a significant part of the interference with the fundamental rights of citizens and citizens to privacy. The decision of the National Assembly, whether this application, including through the adoption of this law, will be allowed or expressly prohibited, is likely to be obtained in the following proceedings, but we will certainly be favoured by the Social Democrats even or, in particular, by the issues which, in relation to fundamental human and civil rights, open up the use of such technologies, also by the public presentation of opinions before the law itself is addressed on the relevant parliamentary committee, the Committee on Justice. At this stage of the law and consideration, the Social Democrats will be supported by the Criminal Procedure Act, its 14th amendment and supplementation, in order to increase the effectiveness of the criminal procedure, to remove a number of procedural obstacles, which also lead to the investigation itself being too long and which lead to the failure of those who should be entitled to time limits, in one way or another, to complete a number of proceedings. However, we want the Government to answer all the questions and questions in this Chamber not only by defending the views of the proposed law, but by responding in the broadest possible way to reach the consensus of the parliamentary groups from both the left and the right. For the law governing criminal proceedings is an extremely important and fundamental law for citizens and citizens to trust in the rule of law. Any doubt or feeling that we could do more for the appropriateness of such a law did not, however, simply because certain comments came from the left or right, must be left on the side and absolutely must not be part of the procedure ahead of us. As we say, the Social Democrats will be supported by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u75	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act were quite eagerly expected in the United Left. Last February, we prepared amendments to the Penal Code, which fully regulated the issue of animal torture. Our solution, though with the amendments of the coalition at the end, was somewhat distorted, if I may say so, but the step forward was nevertheless made. The solutions that emerged from the final proposal included those that would ensure the most effective prosecution of animal torturers. In particular, I am thinking of criminal associations, which, at the expense of organising events such as dog fights, for example, are, of course, making big profits. Effective prosecution is disabled mainly due to the fact that it is not possible to use disguised investigation measures against serial animal torturers. At that time, the minister assured us that he would solve this problem with the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, and we are pleased that he also kept that word. But in this mandate, it is a great pleasure to see some positive solutions hidden between a bunch of disputed ones, and this time too, so in the United Left we do not support these solutions. The Criminal Procedure Act is one of the most important laws, which is probably what we all agree on. It is a law under which it is assessed whether the State is actually legal. If it's bad, they end up in an innocent prison, while criminals and crooks walk free, like some of us tycoons, some even convicted, who, say, play basketball unburdenedly. The public's confidence in the rule of law is, as a result, not exactly at a high level and there is a growing sense that we have two legal states. One for the rich and the other for the poor. It is clear, therefore, that the Criminal Procedure Act needs to be changed, but the changes that are ahead of us are, in our view, bad. The first thing that is problematic is the number of comments by the professional public. As we have already heard, the proposal is opposed or pointed to individual disputed or inappropriate solutions by virtually all those affected by the law, lawyers, prosecutors, judges, information officer, law professors, telecommunications operators and even repression, although the Minister of the Interior is extremely favoured. And this is certainly a very bad trip for this marriage. In particular, if, as stated in the proposal, I quote, “the gradual application of the new model of criminal procedure”, the end of the quote. The new model relates to the termination of the investigation. In every past government, there was a special working group, whose task was to prepare the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act. Due to the many open dilemmas, and also due to the extreme difficulty of preparing a new model, none of these governments have decided to withdraw, even though 343 articles of the new law were written in 2008. More than half of the new law was written this way almost 10 years ago, and today we do not have a new law before us. We have a novel in front of us, and according to comments, bad novels. Instead of a comprehensive and systematic suspension of the judicial investigation, there is today some kind of partial, gradual termination. The proposer, I quote again, “assessed that a diplomatic approach to the implementation of the new model is meaningful”, the end of the quote. Gradualist approach, which can in practice lead to a very comprehensive collapse. In the United Left, we are particularly opposed to solutions relating to the possibility of interrogating suspects without the presence of an advocate, to the failure to ensure the equality of weapons, to the new provisions on the acquisition of data on the transport of communications assets and to the introduction of so-called IMSI hunters. As far as the investigation is concerned, we know that the debate on this, whether or not, has been under way since 2000. The biggest problem with which the profession deals is how to ensure equality of arms at the end of a judicial investigation. Indeed, the graduation approach of the Ministry of Justice does not solve this problem. Actually, he doesn't even deal with him. In the work relating to the possibility of questioning witnesses without the presence of a defence and the questioning of suspects without the presence of an advocate, it is in fact a major step away from this principle. The Ministry's response to criticism is simple here. Contradictivity will be ensured subsequently and the suspect will be informed that he has the right to defend. Yes, but only those who can afford an advocate can benefit from the right of an advocate given to a suspect by law. The profession here is one thing. If a judicial investigation is withdrawn, the right of defence counsel under official duty must be extended as a matter of urgency to the pre-trial procedure. However, this proposal does not provide for this. Why not? Because the state just doesn't have the money for it. We therefore need a systematic overhaul of the procedure and sufficient resources for an appropriate solution. Here we have none of this, we only have some partial solution, lowering standards and, of course, increasing repression. The sense that we have two legal states, one for the rich and one for the poor, is slowly becoming almost a reality with such solutions. In addition to the lack of regulation, the very reasons for it are also questionable. When the debate on abolition began in 2000, the main reason for this reduction was the reduction of criminal proceedings. This is no longer the case, especially after the entry into force of the new KZ. Today, most proceedings end with the recognition of guilt or negotiations on the recognition of guilt and a criminal agreement. So in less than half of the cases, there is actually a major treatment and we should focus on this part. But not so that the number of completed proceedings before the main hearing will increase further at the expense of the confessions which, without an advocate, could of course be forced from the suspect and brought through the back door, if I may put it that way, and the comments and warnings of the professions are, as far as this is concerned, certainly in place here. The consequences of these changes will therefore in practice be shown by the reduction in the standard of legal protection of suspects, especially those who are materially weaker, and by the chaos caused by such procedures. However, provisions relating to the acquisition of traffic data for communication devices are also controversial. The poor provisions to be rectified by decisions of the Constitutional Court are replaced by even worse. We have received a number of comments that point out that this is an excessive and disproportionate intervention in the privacy of individuals and that the provisions are too broad. The opinion of the information officer is very critical of these changes, and more than convincing has also been the warnings of the Association for Informatics and Telecommunications. These are very serious interventions into privacy and the provisions are certainly too open and benevolent to law enforcement authorities. If we link these provisions to the introduction of IMSI hunters, they become literally unacceptable. Even the story with these hunters has a beard for quite some time. After the entire mandate of increasing repression and police powers has been legislated by the proposals of the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Justice has joined. The Minister, who has opposed one of the police leadership's wishes, is a paralyser, is now realizing the second desire of the police leadership, these are the IMSI hunters, even though there are even more concerns about this measure than with the paralyser. In the United Left, we have the same attitude towards all repressive measures. Both the Paralyzer and the IMSI hunters are totally unacceptable to us. We know that IMSI hunters are supposed to be used there for the first time in 1999, although their use was not publicly recognised until 2014, the media then discovered that the police used the device more than 300 times between 2006 and 2012, even though the use, as we have heard several times today, is illegal. Because it is a serious invasion of privacy and because it is technically impossible to control devices, it is, of course, very easy to abuse them, even for illegal wiretapping, for example, to date no government has legalized their use. But, as it is said, Dr. Cerar's mandate will obviously bring about all the repressive wishes of the police leadership. We cannot support the proposal because of all of the above in the United Left. We simply cannot change such an important law with solutions that are opposed to virtually all those involved in its application, those that will actually implement it. It's simply irresponsible, in a word. It is also unacceptable to try to reduce criminal proceedings at the expense of those who cannot afford expensive lawyers and with too wide opportunities for repressive measures and interference with individual privacy. Not only is he a suspect of a crime, but he is also one who finds himself in the vicinity of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u78	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act in several areas of criminal procedure rules brings about changes that are to a large extent meaningful, but some of the shortcomings of this proposal will also need to be noted in the examination. Among other things, in the field of the protection of the interests of victims or injured persons, the law introduces Directive 2012/29EU into the Slovenian legal order. In New Slovenia we welcome the extension of the possibility of the victim of violence to be accompanied by a person who trusts her. We also support the determination of the obligation of the police, the State Prosecutor's Office and the courts to ensure that the injured person is able to avoid contact with the suspect or accused. In New Slovenia, we believe that the granting of the right of the injured person to receive information on the state of pre-law or criminal proceedings is a welcome change that would improve the situation of the victims. As we can see, there is also a new definition of the concept of injured persons, as it is also explicitly extended to the family members of the person whose death was a direct consequence of the crime. If the prosecutor decides not to prosecute a criminal offence, the offender may take over the prosecution within eight days after the current regime. This deadline is extended by this proposal, as we welcome the Christian Democrats. The time-limit for the decision of the injured person on subsidiary persecution changes from 8 to 30 days. The bill clearly sets out the possibility for mothers of infants and young children to be allowed to stay with them during detention, which is also welcome by the Christian Democrats. We note, however, that the proposal for a law in the field of electronic communications imposes significant requirements on some private companies, which by their nature would fall within the competence of the state authorities. The proposal for a new law regulates journalistic confidentiality in criminal proceedings. However, according to the drafter, confessional silence is also regulated in a manner similar to journalistic confidentiality. However, it is not clear from the wording of the articles of the draft law, but according to the applicant's comments, disclosure of the information subject to confessional silence is ordered in some cases. This would constitute a relativisation of the protection of confessional silence, which would be unacceptable because of the violation of religious freedom. It is precisely because of these uncertainties in Novi Slovenija that we cannot support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mrs Marjana Kotnik Poropat has the floor. Get Mrs. Eva Irgle ready. Here you go, Mrs. Popotat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I believe that this law is indeed a very important law that will bring about substantial changes in the field of criminal procedure, namely, changes that will of course contribute to the speedy conduct of criminal proceedings, so that it will be reduced, and that this will also contribute to our courts being more up-to-date. The very content of this law has indeed received a lot of comments from some institutes, even today we have heard about what my colleague, Mr Gorenak, said about 149.b., which relates to human rights violations in telecommunications control. I think that at the time of the second reading of this law we will really have to examine these matters thoroughly and determine to what extent there is indeed a violation of human rights here, and, of course, the law is appropriate to record that this would not occur. The investigation itself in criminal proceedings is prepared in the sense that there will be a change in order to make it faster, and it will also have to be verified here what it means to hear the offender of a criminal offence without a lawyer, to what extent it will be ensured that this recording of the investigation will satisfy the fact that there will be no violation of human rights. In short, I am confident that we will make an effort and that the law will be prepared so that this amendment will completely recast the Criminal Procedure Act and that no further amendment will take place in the coming years. For this is indeed an important law and it would not be good for us to change it again in a few years. It is a law guaranteeing human rights and it is important that it is therefore appropriate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u82	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. I'm a little surprised because I was last in line, and I'm just about done. This law is very important in my opinion. I don't know how many Members have had this privilege of ever meeting him in their careers. I've actually met him many times. And I will not go into all the details now, in general, I can say that most of the solutions are good, even those in terms of protecting victims of crime, and then the rights of the victims and the like. However, there are things that I consider to be very problematic and I will give them a lot of attention in the adoption of this law if I am to get my plus in the final vote. What seems most problematic to me is this dismissal of an investigative judge. That was a lot to hear. Here I share a view with those who say that the adoption of this law could also be conducive to certain practices in criminal proceedings, which would ultimately lead to a number of criminal proceedings ending in failure or possibly with some compensation. What concerns me is in particular this possibility of a hearing by the police and the State Prosecutor, which is fundamentally changing in this part of the criminal procedure. However, it is the fact that so far the law on criminal proceedings is known by the institute of the investigating judge, which the legal theory calls a guarantee of legality. Trends, including in Slovenia, are such that this guarantee of legality is to be phased out slowly if there is no country. I do not see anything wrong in the investigative judge himself, I think that the investigation, such as it is, even if it is sometimes unnecessary, is not a stumbling block in criminal proceedings, but the stumbling blocks of stumbling are a variety of instructional hands that allow things to fall here and there after the drawers and in the end nothing happens or we get a judgment just before we get older or some legal after we get older. The problem of regulation, which is in the amendment of this law, is that when this guarantee of legality is removed, which is supposed to somehow balance that legal power or the legal and factual possibilities of the suspect on the one hand and the prosecutor on the other, that no new rights or balance of the trial position of the suspect is imposed by the removal of this guarantor. The law stipulates that the transaction is no longer being heard by an investigative judge, but the police or the prosecutor may regulate certain procedural acts, especially how to invite and so on. Then he says that, in fact, this hearing can be used in a court of law. In cases where the suspect has or does not have an advocate, the case shall be arranged in such a way that, if he has an advocate, his hearing may be used as evidence in court, if he does not have one, but may be replaced by video. I don't see any justification in that an advocate who isn't just someone who's watching, or who's witnessing some kind of hearing, could be a witness to a hearing that he can be replaced by a camera with some video and audio content. The Advocate is not a witness to the hearing, the Advocate is an active participant, raises his defence questions and his role is as important at that preliminary hearing or at a purely initial hearing as it is at the main hearing. The regulation, as proposed in the law, I am afraid that it will lead to, in cases where there will be no advocate, for example, in a police hearing, and not because someone will not be able to afford it, this criminal procedure will eventually be exaggerated to some relativisation of these statements made by the suspect on the police, it is said when he was filmed trying to determine or relativize what he said and his psychophysical state, in which he said something. I didn't agree that we could see the truth from the cameras. The camera 10 years ago or the camera today is a completely different instrument. Today, any video can be processed relatively and, in my opinion, it does not have or is increasingly of minor evidentiary value. The problem that the Ministry of the Interior has also warned about during this process, and then somehow this has been compensated in that it is not binding, is whether the police have any chance of how this will actually be recorded. Even in this part, this solution is completely inconsequential. The law says that a suspect will have to be informed about his rights, including that he will have the opportunity to defend himself, and I wonder if any such abuse is possible at this point. Finally, we have one and the same returnees not to say that they are very similar many times in one and another criminal proceedings, and I am not entirely sure that their statements cannot be abused in one criminal procedure for the purposes of another criminal procedure. Such questions are not resolved by this law, and I think it will be necessary to answer that question, I will say. Of course, the choice of a video as a guarantor, a video instead of an advocate and a video instead of an investigative judge, given what I said about these videos, I don't think there can be a solution. Not even in our modern times. I believe that the aspirations of every government in the work of criminal proceedings have not changed in any way, and I will say that the guarantees that everyone who comes into contact with the country in this way must always be the same, never smaller. I'm not going to go into the rest of the articles now, as far as I'm concerned about getting the other data. There, too, I agree with the opinions, some that have already been heard today. I believe that we will respond to these concerns during the adoption of this law, but I have highlighted this part, which seems most important to me, because I fear that some rush into some proceedings will result, as I mentioned earlier, in that some important matters may eventually fall in the Supreme Court or in the Constitutional Court, and we will finally ask ourselves what we have accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Well, a lot of people called, few chosen, would call it. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which a representative of the proposer, namely the Government, Mr Darko Stare, is given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A good greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I owe you one sincere apology for the untimely arrival at the beginning of this point. Indeed, according to the agenda, the start was foreseen at 1300 hours when we were informed that the start would be premature, we responded immediately, but I was unfortunately one minute late and I did not have the opportunity to give an introductory explanation of the law on behalf of the proposer. So again, an apology for that. But at this point, I'm only going to say the following. The law or amendment of the law contains 145 articles, and as the representatives of individual parliamentary groups, in their introductory opinions, have stated, these are important changes and important novelties that substantially change the situation, especially the legal situation and legal security of the injured in criminal proceedings at all stages — both foregone, criminal and pre-trial. It is important to amend certain organisational provisions that simplify and facilitate procedures, without prejudice to the legal situation and rights of the parties in the process, to significantly facilitate access to certain data to all people. In particular, I have in mind the right here or their ability to access data on impunity, to access a certificate of the fact that they are not subject to criminal proceedings. We are changing all these things in a way that will be easily and quickly accessible in all the administrative units where they live, and that these things can also be obtained by mail. Of course, personal service, not as it is so far, that for each such confirmation of the procedure a person has to report himself to the court and thus may significantly interfere with his way of staying or working, service, and so on. In short, it is a whole set of solutions that significantly improve the situation and opportunities of people, customers in procedures. In fact, in the stages of professional coordination, however, the matter has been reduced to six, seven articles, which you, honourable Members and Members, have today highlighted as problematic in today's debate, where no full consensus has been reached, so that there was no explicit contradiction in the final stage before the adoption of the Government in inter-sectoral coordination. The agreement has been reached in essence, but I will certainly try to make it as clear as possible to highlight those things that I thought were important to me today, so that our purpose and the proposed changes can be properly understood. For this reason, I will also not go into the details of all these important solutions, which in some way also realize the constitutional consistency of the applicable law on the basis of the three constitutional decisions and numerous recommendations of the Ombudsman, not to mention the recommendations of the honourable Members and Members which you have adopted on the Committees, either for human rights or on the Committee of Justice and, I think, also, a Joint Committee was in last year for internal affairs and justice, where a recommendation was adopted to limit the possibility of legal protection and an instant judgment when it comes to the rejection of a criminal charge and, of course, the injured person now has the possibility to more effectively protect this right through the internal judgment of the superior prosecutor, who rejected his criminal charge, not to mention qualified prosecutors and, of course, to recommend to the Commission, to protect this right more effectively with the internal judgment of the pre-trial prosecutor, to the court, to reject the possibility of a court. In short, it is an expression of some political will, including in this respected council, for a number of proposals by the judicial builders, that there will be no misunderstandings, prosecutors, judges, individual courts from the Supreme Court to individual district courts, individual District Attorneys' Offices, I have already mentioned the Ombudsman, representatives of the Faculty of Law. Many solutions are, in fact or on their initiative, a proposal or final forms that are before you are aligned with them to the full or almost complete extent. Now let me go back to what has been exposed as problematic or controversial from a constitutional point of view. The first thing that seems important to me to understand the proposed changes and the possible risk is, I can say with determination and clarity, a completely incorrect starting assumption, where many debaters came from the assumption that the investigation would be discontinued. This proposal for a law shall not, in any provision, terminate the investigation under any proposed article. You, if you look at the currently in force Criminal Procedure Act, which, as you yourself have already found, has been recast 13 times, as a rule because of non-compliance with the Constitution, i.e. the decisions of our Constitutional Court, and several times because of the implementation of transnational acts, either directives or regulations of the European Court of Justice. It must be said that in this criminal law system, the regulation of the procedure is based on our constitution, which provides very clearly in Article 29 the minimum legal guarantees of defendants in criminal proceedings. And if you look at the arrangements and structure of our criminal procedure, you'll find that we actually have two types of criminal proceedings. The so-called ordinary or summary or summary criminal procedure which is envisaged and legalized for offences for which a term of up to three years' imprisonment and the so-called ordinary criminal procedure can be imposed. What's the difference? From the point of view of these debates, which you have highlighted, in the short-term procedure, that is to say, for all crimes up to three years – and these in Slovenian judicial practice are at an annual level of 6 000, 6 000 criminal proceedings are shortened, the regular ones I will talk about below are 2 000, and in the last year there were 2 000 60, and 5 000 800 are reduced – there is no legal investigation, there is no possibility, there is no regulation, there is no provision. Why am I saying this? Because Article 29 of the Constitution refers to the right to defence, to fair proceedings, to the privilege of accusing accused persons in criminal proceedings, i.e. individuals who are accused or accused by the State through its authorities. The defendant is used in the constitution because, in the case of regular proceedings which I will discuss further when the State Prosecutor proposes the introduction of a judicial investigation, this suspect becomes an accused, otherwise he is an individual when the Prosecutor accuses him with an indictment or in the form of an indictment in a reduced procedure, i.e. all crimes up to three years, or in a regular proceeding with the accused, he becomes a defendant. In this short-term procedure, which is 6,000, i.e. twice as many as regular procedures, we can find that our criminal justice system has not implemented, does not know and is not constitutionally disputed, nor does it provide for a judicial investigation. How does this trial and prosecution begin in a reduced procedure? On the basis of a criminal charge, the Prosecutor may make a motion or draw up an indictment, refer it to the Court and the Court, in accordance with the applicable law of this indictment, not to the suspect for a plea or an objection, but to determine whether the suspicion is justified and to sign the main hearing or the first plea. This is where this criminal procedure begins and it is only there that these 6 thousand suspects are in our legal order for the first time facing the charges, and then all these rights and legal guarantees, which are also provided by the Constitution in the 29th and some other articles, arise. So we don't even have a grand majority court investigation right now for two thirds of the criminal proceedings in our system. However, when we are going to a regular procedure where a judicial investigation is envisaged or possible, it is also necessary, from this conceptual point of view, to ensure that there is no misunderstanding in this proposed law, to say that the law for regular proceedings, i.e. for all crimes where it is possible to impose more than 3 years in prison, does not provide for a judicial investigation as compulsory in any case. It provides that the State Prosecutor may directly bring an indictment for offences for which a penalty of up to 8 years is prescribed, without having to face, question or obtain the consent of the investigating judge, except in order to propose a preliminary judicial investigation or the initiation of a judicial investigation. In cases of criminal offences where a sentence of more than 8 years of imprisonment is at risk, the law in force provides for the possibility for the prosecutor to obtain the consent of the investigating judge before making a direct accusation and, of course, he may do so, but it is laid down in this situation that the investigating judge must hear the suspect or the accused before giving his consent in this case. And of course, there are all the guarantees that must be fair and consistent and sufficiently effectively implemented in the context of this investigative action of the hearing to be held before an investigative judge. I would like to point out below that we have a system in which, in the vast majority of criminal proceedings, in two-thirds, there is no possibility at all, there is no regulation in short-term proceedings, but in regular proceedings it is carried out in approximately 2,000 cases per year, of course on the proposal of the Attorney General. And that we're shutting down the investigation, so don't hold up, or we didn't have that intention. However, the fact that, in fact, in this material, it is explicitly stressed that we are following the principle of graduation, the stage by which the judicial investigation is phased out, is an essential element and a basis for this thesis in the fact that we are allowing the police and the prosecution to hear witnesses in the pre-trial proceedings as well. Indeed, even the questioning of suspects has been in the pre-trial procedure since 2004, i.e. for more than 13 years, legalized and practiced by the police. In the presence of a lawyer in approximately 700, 800, 900 cases per year, or I think that the direct charges that the prosecution makes in these regular proceedings are about the same number. And as the prosecution simply says, I think it can rightly be commended that their prosecution is effective or successful in more than 85%. In this respect, we do not find any serious material or serious reason to question the police practice and the prosecution in the case of direct charges in our practice. I also think it is important to stress something that is more about quality, the professionality of the use of existing resources, investigative tasks, actions and the possibilities that the law in force allows for criminal proceedings, including the predictive phase, to be fair and effective. So that decisions can be made — or that proceedings should be stopped because suspicion is not justified, or that there is an accusation where the prosecutor has sufficient grounds for the prosecution — this procedure is introduced as soon as possible. The proposed solution does not constitute and does not constitute anything other than an additional commitment on the part of the State prosecutor to further substantiate this on the grounds that he could not obtain sufficient information and evidence to decide that he would go to the charge of a particular individual. Indeed, the purpose of the investigation is clearly laid down in the first paragraph of Article 167, which makes it very clear what the purpose is. The aim is to obtain evidence or data from the State Prosecutor in order to decide whether or not to press charges and, for certain reasons, where certain unrepeatable investigative actions cannot be carried out in later times, he may propose a judicial investigation. However, for these acts, which are possible, but which are in practice very rare and exceptional, there was already, in 2004, a provision in the National Assembly, which deals with so-called preliminary investigations, precisely because of the precision of the economics of the criminal procedure, that, if one witness is to be heard, I do not know, even when it comes to specific categories of witnesses injured, so I do not know, victims of sexual violence who are minors, children and so on. Since this law already explicitly prohibits the re-examination at the main hearing in order to avoid secondary victimisation or re-victimisation, this hearing is not envisaged, the provision of Article 165.a mechanism has been made available since 2004. However, this mechanism does not apply because some practice has been established not to apply it. Now I will not go down for reasons and motives, the fact is that we have this built in our system. However, there has been a new circumstance, which has been an important reason for us to instruct the State Prosecutor's Office in this way to take all possible measures in advance, including the investigation action referred to in Article 165.a, before it burdens the system with a judicial investigation. Because there's something else we need to know. This inquisitorial element of our criminal procedure relates to the court, because here, in essence, the court of inquiry assumes the role of investigator and identifies something that is the function of detection authorities and the state prosecutor's office. And the State Prosecutor's Office, that is also what eminent theorists say, and the practice in this period of criminal law since its independence, that unfortunately the psychological attitude of prosecutors towards investigative judges is, as if they are their assistants. And then it happens that when they get a complaint, they simply refer it to an investigation and then the matter is investigated for a relatively long time. Not because it would in itself be so difficult or so much investigative work, but because it is about 80% of the time spent in the service of documents. You need to know that when the prosecutor proposes an investigation, of course all defendants must, if there are more, receive it and until the latter accepts it, the case is not legally imposed. Then, of course, they have an objection, which, as I said before, no defendant has in short proceedings, and then they can appeal against this objection if the investigating judge rejects it. This goes back to the higher court, and it's back to being served, and in organised crime, complex crime, where there are more defendants, some are also from abroad, you know that it can take a very long time for a judicial investigation to become legal at all or that it has been instituted. Then there's the analytical data. In the vast majority of court investigations, the suspect and the injured person are again questioned as witnesses, and in 10 % as an investigation, a trial is proposed. All of this could already be applied by the Prosecutor under the applicable legal order under Article 165.a and would have sufficient grounds to decide whether the charge or evidence for the charge is sufficient or not. This is also his positive obligation as a state authority resulting from our constitution. And the fact that this is a positive obligation for both the detection authority and the state prosecutor to use all possible measures, all available investigative means, legal, of course, under the CAP, at the earliest possible time, the Court in its judgment in 2014, where it defined the criterion of a personal investigator covering prosecutors and, of course, also police officers, because it is unacceptable, both from the point of view of the accused and from the point of view of the injured, that an investigation or commission procedure takes 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 years. This is simply unacceptable and because of this longevity is a violation of the rights of people, of course of the injured, absolutely, I will not subject anything, organized by all the accused in these procedures, so that the state does not decide within a reasonable period of time, even though it has all the means to do so. This violates the right set out in Articles 34 and 35 of the Constitution to anyone who is a party or participant in such a criminal procedure that lasts unreasonablely and without need for long. At the same time, our Constitutional Court of 2014 notes that, in fact, the ineffective treatment and non-use of available procedural tools generates mistrust and confidence in the rule of law, which, of course, has very harmful consequences, but this is less important than the consequences of two individuals, either the accused or the injured person in such proceedings. Therefore, our proposal does not end the judicial investigation, does not limit it, but merely requires that the prosecutor, when proposing the initiation of a judicial investigation, should explain why he was unable to collect evidence and data by means of available evidence or investigation measures and investigations already in force by the law. This is also noted by the Constitutional Court. This is an important thing, and it seems to me that we are not stopping, but we are instructing the prosecutor, who is a state authority, to explain to the investigating judge why an investigation is needed, without essentially being automatic. As regards the second set of concerns raised and possible risks, it referred to the so-called traffic data, as pointed out by the honourable Member, Dr Gorenak. First of all, it must be said that the current regulation, regulation in article 149.b of the CAP, does not refer to any catalogue of offences, but is a condition that the police or the state prosecutor may, on a proposal from the investigating judge, obtain an order for obtaining traffic data, it may obtain this for any criminal offence of formal prosecution. All that's said to be a criminal offence is that he can get that information. What have we done now? We are now, from the point of view of the Constitutional Court's decision concerning the Law on Electronic Communications, saying that the provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications, which regulate and oblige operators to keep certain transport data for a period of time, are not compatible with the Constitution, because it is disproportionately large and does not take into account the purpose of collecting these or storing data which should be limited only for the purposes of criminal proceedings. What is also said in essence by the Constitution in Article 37, which lays down the conditions, when and how communication privacy can be affected. We will therefore reinvigorate the scope of this data by means of a proposed solution in the direction and in accordance with the very well-coordinated regulation proposed by the Constitutional Court in its decision, namely the Law on Electronic Communications. However, as regards the level of the evidentiary standard, it remained unchanged from the point of view of the CAP. Article 149b is already in force for all crimes, officially prosecuted, so not the catalogue, which we are now restricting, is the standard reason for suspicion. So the lowest standard of evidence, which, of course, has its own logic. Why? Since the detection phase, the forecasting procedure is a phase of detection and adequate legal evidence protection. That's not an accusation. And you cannot at this stage have the same standard as you need for a court investigation or indictment, where suspicion must already be justified. Therefore, the highest evidentiary standard for either initiating an investigation or initiating an indictment or main proceedings in a court of law. Indeed, the collection of this data at this stage is intended to detect evidence, secure evidence, and therefore the logic of internal enlarging evidence standards is regulated in our CAP as it is. We have the evidentiary standards expressed in the form of indeterminate terms, reason for suspicion, reasonable reason for suspicion and reasonable suspicion, but it is in fact the extent, quality and quantity of data that convinces the determining party that someone is highly likely to have committed a crime or that a crime has taken place. These are indeterminate legal concepts and are always dependent on specific data, their quality and quantity or volume. And that's always in the judgment of every decision-maker, in this case a judge, especially. As regards the debate held by honourable Member Gorenak, who has highlighted the possible risk that it is now envisaged because the operators have also responded in a letter and have proposed some amendments that they are not obliged or responsible for assessing whether a request is legal or not and then send it to the court or to the judge, not to the prosecution or the police. I am sure, but I apologize if I am wrong, but I am sure that Member Gorenak has in fact confused the provisions of Article 149.b and Article 149.c. Why? 149.b. speaks of traffic data that may be obtained exclusively by the prosecution or the police on the basis of a court order, while 149.c. speaks of so-called contracting data. And for a long time, it has been a dilemma in practice, because the operators have rejected the police and the prosecution's data on contracting entities which did not wish to be published in the directories, i.e. these secret contracting entities, which is not a communication secret, but is informational and does not enjoy protection as provided for in Article 37 of the Constitution that it is necessary to have a court order to do so. However, Article 38 of the Constitution, which deals with information privacy, namely the protection of personal data, provides that the conditions must be laid down by law. And the 149.b article has been, I don't know, for 10 years or more, very clearly states that as far as contracting data is concerned, so that Dare Old is the phone holder, but I didn't want it published in the public directory, the police and the state prosecutor's office, if there's a reason for suspicion, can get it on their request. This change, or an additional catheter, which imposes what has already happened in practice. However, if the police or the prosecution had demanded this provision, which is probably what Mr Gorenak had in mind, transport data, but not subscribers, in this case it is envisaged that the operator – not rejects it, because it would in fact degrade the official function of the state authorities, but that – this would refer to the court and it will decide whether it is legal or not. Because a judge can authorize or order one way or another. This does not apply to the rejection of the court's demands, because we know that in a democratic legal order, such as ours, decisions and court orders, all state authorities, absolutely also operators, must be respected and impossible and must not be rejected, even though this has already happened in practice, in criminal proceedings. Here, in my opinion, this is a misunderstanding and we do not see any particular need to regulate this, because this is an additional legal protection for the suspect and later, of course, for the accused if further stages of criminal proceedings occur. The discussion also raised concerns about the way the suspect was heard. We have been hearing the suspect legally since 2004, and therefore I want to explain the difference and why we want to make our police and the prosecution comparable to all European countries, because we are now the only ones who do not have it regulated. It is simply a fact that it is necessary to distinguish between the so-called familiar evidence obtained by the police and the prosecution in the pre-trial proceedings and may be such official notes, records, statements by citizens, suspects and so forth, potential witnesses, the basis for certain decisions, such as an investigative judge, not necessarily in a judicial investigation, but rather when it imposes covert measures when it determines house investigations when it determines reconstruction when it determines other investigative actions outside a judicial investigation. Of course, standards for such investigations are provided for, the standard for house investigation is that it is highly likely that clues or criminal cases will be found. And all of this is made up of these documents, which does not mean that a court decision can be upheld on such documents once the trial takes place. That's a big difference. In order for this to happen, an investigation action must have the so-called procedural formal form and must be recorded in the minutes. So what's our arrangement now? We now have the arrangement that we have allowed in 2004 to essentially have lawyers with evidentiary resources. Because when a person is a suspect of a criminal offence, the police invite him to interview him, it is his duty to teach him about his rights, including the right to an attorney who chooses him freely, but generally, in 18 thousand cases of suspects at the annual level – that is the approximate number, so many suspects each year the police physically consider for more than one crime, but physically 18,000 suspects – of course, the lawyer does not come. For this reason he will then achieve that this cannot be a formal means of proof. However, in 2005 and later 2008, the Supreme Court made it very clear in one of its judicatures – which is in line with the case-law of the European Court of Justice – that these official notes or the U.S. statement of a suspect's hearing when there is no lawyer present or the official marks of the U.S. on statements or collected notices from citizens who can then obtain witness status in court at the next stage, an integral part of the file and the decisions of the court in the previous phase, whether in detention, investigative measures, hidden measures, as I said earlier, may rightly and correctly refer to the judge's decisions. However, this cannot be relied on if the case is not formally regulated in the form of a protocol-based investigation act. It's a form. Which is even more important now, as far as the risks are concerned. I want to be aware again, we are now discussing that small number of criminal proceedings and potential judicial investigations, but we know that we have 6,000 criminal proceedings in the same system, when there is no investigating judge at all, there is no judicial investigation because it is not prescribed and is not possible. All evidence that constitutes evidence that the judgment or individual judicial decision against them is based on whether it is the UIC of a citizen's declaration or the UIC of a suspect's statement or the record of a suspect's hearing is subject to the principle of free judgement of evidence, which is the absolute right and exclusive right of the judge. In our system, the judge is limited in this right of freedom to judge evidence solely by the principle of exclusion or exclusion, as is said to be a little more learned, to be specified in Article 83 and Article 18 by so-called evidentiary prohibition, where it states that if any evidence or document has been obtained in contravention of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act or by a violation of human rights, the decision must not be based on that. This is a positive obligation and a duty, and this is expected from every judge, because he is a guarantor of the legality of the procedure and of respect for human rights. From the ECHR to the Constitution and, of course, all the specific rights and cavalettes in the CAP that it will assess what it will use. We in the Republic of Slovenia are the only police and the State Prosecutor's Office, which does not have these options. Now this shows up as if something is being removed, and it's changing significantly. No, no, no. We raise the legal standard and want to strengthen the legal position and legal protection of both the accused and the authorities, of course, because in those cases when the case is taken, it is a little more qualitatively fixed and you can see what was going on at a conversation or hearing that usually happens behind closed doors in police premises. It is hard to imagine, and also what we have experienced – my past 26 years in the criminal police, and now in the last six, seven years, when I have been in contact with foreign judicial authorities, and the last visits that the Minister has mentioned several times – all wonder how it is possible that Slovenian police and the prosecution do not have the opportunity to secure the data and evidence obtained in this way, since it is a matter of state bodies that are professional, which are set up only for this and are obliged to respect. However, when an infringement occurs, it is, of course, sanctioned. But when a system is being built, you cannot anticipate that everyone is breaking the laws, but you must anticipate appropriate sanctions if an individual in such a crowd violates them. This is, I think, an approach that has been adopted all over Europe and cannot set up a system without exception, but an exception is arranged in an exceptional way if it does. From this point of view, I would like to point out that in these debates there was some starting assumption that is not really true. We are not terminating the investigation, but we are asking the prosecutor to tell the judge why he is proposing the initiation of a judicial investigation, why he did not use everything he owes, as the Constitutional Court has already said in 2014. And the judge will judge. What prosecutors have very often pointed out in this professional coordination, but also, I think, honourable Member Zorčič, is that now, with this proposed regulation, there is an increased risk that matters in the courts will fall – I have already said that, without the judges asking, without proposing an investigation, prosecutors can charge all suspects if a criminal offence is punishable by up to 8 years. If she's over 8 years old, she doesn't need a trial, just a consent. 800 cases per year are that they are directly accused in these regular procedures, and 85% are successful. So, they're very materialized, quality in these cases gathering evidence. In many others, when it comes to – and this is interesting – when it comes to economic crime, although in fact it is not a problem of economic crime as it is of robbery or rape or murder, that the authorities spend the most time in the pre-commanding process finding out who is even a suspect, it is immediately known here and is, in principle, only for documentary evidence and the information that essentially substances the guilt that someone has done it on purpose and so on. No, but it takes six, seven years and so on. And that's unacceptable. This was also said by the Constitutional Court. There's no reasonable reason. Even if you look at all of the prosecution's internal acts since, I don't know, 2004, they have internal instructional hands prescribed that the prosecutor should decide the case, I don't know, within 90 days, whether I do or not, or take certain measures. It can then be extended to 120 days. In the summary procedure, if you are looking at the provisions of 432 to 434, i.e. those, which are 6 thousand at the annual level, most in Slovenian criminal justice, it is stipulated that if the prosecutor does not submit an indictment within 30 days, the injured person may enter himself. Which makes sense. This is a clarification of the positive obligation of the State and its authorities to take a decision as soon as possible, however long as possible. Because it is unacceptable that Damocle’s sword hangs over someone for seven years, it is not known whether there will be an accusation or an accusation or not that I am not talking about the victims who do not come to that just satisfaction. Sometimes I have a bad feeling when we talk in the professional public, when I can't believe that someone can change the thesis so much that they speak at the beginning of something that is neither the subject nor the proposed solution nor the debate. We now have this case, and we are convinced that if nothing happens, the status quo and everything fits. But this situation is not good, this situation is not bad, but it can be much better. And all these proposed measures and solutions are designed to make things better. The trend is good and there are no obstacles, no procedural reasons not to be better. This is also a specificisation of the economic nature of the procedure. It is also costly for taxpayers to go a little bit more broadly, not just for participants, to take so long of these procedures and to repeat similar tasks in three stages in essence. This is unnecessary and is, in fact, too often harmful to the rights of participants in the proceedings. As far as these specific issues are concerned and the starting assumptions in the debate are concerned, I would really like to, even if I have not been sufficiently understanding, clear now, to ask questions. To the best of our ability, with a respected colleague, we will try to explain this and explain in very detail the purpose and meaning of the individual provisions. And that I won't be too long, maybe I'm asking a question when I tried to summarize, say, Mr Dobovšek, in his performance he started flat-rately, that we are now breaking the evidentiary standards or that there are no evidentiary standards. [[…]] We're not getting into this at all. The evidentiary standards are regulated in the CAP, they are such as we do not change them, but we only regulate those provisions and measures. If I speak only of this narrower work, which was the most problematic, i.e. the hearing of witnesses, suspects and this duty of the prosecutor to explain to the investigating judge why he proposes not only to propose the initiation of a judicial investigation; in no way do they prejudice and change the so-called evidentiary standards. I didn't really understand this thesis and I hardly comment on it; but it's not possible for me to communicate now if he had anything else in mind. In short, I'd like to reawaken, 145 of these articles. 120 relate to improving the legal situation of all parties in the process; the suspect, the accused in the next phase, not to mention the number of articles that I do not know about, but to believe that there are certainly more than 30 of them linked to strengthening the legal situation due to the change in the paradigm of the treatment of injured persons. And we are one of those countries that, as always, are forced by a directive of the European Commission or of Parliament and of the Council to implement something into our law, which by the nature of the matter – and this is what is happening in Scotland, Ireland, England – I would expect from the authorities. It is difficult for me to imagine that the prosecutor first meets the defendant before the court at the main hearing, even if it is a crime against life and body, sexual delinquency and so on. Isn't it the most natural and normal thing for someone who represents the primary public interest expressed by the Penal Code, but indirectly he is also the advocate of each injured individual, who has been affected, some contact that there is some input, some information about credibility, about what happens to make it easier to substance the defendant's base?Oh, my God! No, we have to somehow enforce all these things. It's self-inflicted somewhere. They do not need such a directive, they have already had it all operationalised in practice. But we're basically everything at the last moment and it's kind of hard to accept for a lot of people, because as a result, it means greater transparency, greater responsibility, greater concern. This is not appropriate to many, is easier to survive or is easier to work in the way it is so far, which — not to make a misunderstanding — is not bad; but can be much better. The motive for being better is people, customers in the process, victims, defendants, always aware of that. And I highly recommend for those who may not have read this decision of the Constitutional Court from 2014-2015, it is also mentioned in our material what is in fact a positive obligation for us – state authorities, especially in this case detection and prosecution authorities. I think it would be a great harm if we did not support this law, because, as it is said, 95% of the solutions represent the implementation or implementation of the Victims Directive, which significantly improves the situation of all victims, means the number of recommendations made by the Ombudsman in order to improve the situation of accused and injured persons in all stages of the proceedings. It is also the basis for solutions, as I mentioned, your work, your recommendations to individual committees, including the Logar Commission of Inquiry, where they have also proposed possible hearings of witnesses and so on. And these are options, these are not bonds, this is what you said, if you read, the Constitutional Court, that the responsibility of law enforcement authorities is their autonomous right and the duty that the pace, scale, number, type of investigative measures choose for themselves. That's their autonomy. But all and with the aim and effort to be effective, to reach a decision of the prosecutor – not a basis – I reject; or to make a decision – is the basis, I accuse in the shortest possible time. Our proposed solutions are a concrete one, nothing else. We are not stopping the investigation, we are only promoting more efficient and more cost-effective work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. All the debaters have your word. Does anyone else want to discuss the 71st Rule of the Rules of Procedure, which allows for another 5 minutes for each? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Igor Zorčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Mr Secretary of State, you have described the solutions that have been proposed. I strongly agree with you as to the description and structure of this criminal procedure; but I still have certain concerns, and I do not stem from reading the law to end the criminal investigation, although I actually have a feeling that it is. This is because the prosecutors and probably the police will agree, I do not know what practice the case will bring, the possibility they both have; they will apply paragraphs 148.a and 148.b to a large extent – the hearing of witnesses and the questioning of the suspect; and this will be the basis for significantly less application of the provisions on the investigation. I believe that there will be more direct investigations because of this, but this is not as important as the use of this hearing as evidence either in the investigation or in the main proceedings. And the problem of this evidence is, in particular, that which, in accordance with Article 148c, states: The Court of Justice may refer to the conviction of the suspect if it has been obtained in accordance with Article 148a of this Act, only if, in the course of the hearing, the counsel was present — this is somehow as we have previously arranged — or if the hearing without the counsel’s presence was sound and graphicly recorded, together with the legal instruction referred to in Article 148a, paragraph 4, of this Act, and the statement of the suspect that he understood it, and his statement regarding the right to defender. I find this part the most problematic to watch some videos where the suspect confesses something, this recognition will have significantly more far-reaching consequences than we now think; I am not referring to the content of the judgment itself, but also to the conduct of other proceedings. And in the end, the defense or the suspect himself will be able to confess that he was forced into such a confession in a way or another. I do not rule out the possibility in relation to all the case-law that was created not only in the Republic of Slovenia, but in America with a variety of processes, that there are no guarantees here offered by the defender himself. And this is my problem in this light that some will be able to afford this advocate, and some will just be filmed. That's my thought, and everyone else comes from what happens next with this evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Darko Stara, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you for this additional question or comment, honourable Member. I didn't want to go to this legal debate and debate before, but, given your dilemma, I'd like to put something in particular right now. First of all, the 148.c article you are referring to refers to the evidentiary value of the evidence or records of the questioning of the suspect and the witness. The police and the D.A. cannot hear in terms of procedural, formal, valid evidence if there is no witness to this if there is no agreement. That's the first one. In short, the citizen or potential witness has the right. However, as far as the suspect is concerned, it is important in the first paragraph of this article that you quoted him as not being able to rely on the verdict of such a hearing of the suspect because, as described in very concrete terms, you know that the essential element of a fair procedure is the principle of directness and orality. And when the main hearing takes place, that is to say, the suspect must be heard before the Senate or before a court of law. In cases where there was no possibility of a cross-examination, such a hearing may in no case be possible at any previous stage in order to serve as an appropriate basis for the decision of the court. But, as it is said, above all, is the judge and the court, a Senate that judges on value, on credibility. This record-keeping protocol of the suspect at this stage means only a higher level of fixation of some potential evidence, which is judged and judged by the court, and a greater possibility for the court to also assess the credibility of the statements made by individual participants, in which case the suspect in the pre-trial proceedings. This isn't about preconceived preconceived evidence. It's always easy to judge a court like that. But you know that a judge has to judge by law and by the Constitution. And if he believes something is inappropriate, he can't use it. But at any further stage, there must be a possibility of a cross-examination, otherwise such a hearing is not useful and must not be used. There's something else I'd like to say. That this possibility and the significantly better legal situation of suspects following the proposed solution, we believe, will be in the future, if you adopt this solution or this proposed law, the fact is that if the number of so-called preliminary investigations is increased – what they have not been using since 2004 – has been enacted with the same purpose and purpose in 2004, but prosecutors do not use it – these preliminary investigations, interrogations, investigations of witnesses, suspects, anyone being tried by an investigative judge; only the prosecutor proposes. In fact, there is an additional investigative judge, and I now apologize, article 178 of the Law. There everyone may be present, and there has the right to be present to anyone, including other investigative actions, to propose the execution of evidence and the direct questioning of someone and so on. If you look at whole Article 178, the ninth shall apply to the investigation and shall apply mutatis mutandis also in the case of individual investigations carried out outside the investigation or prior to the initiation of a judicial investigation. From this normative point of view, all cauldrons for fair trial and fair conduct of individual acts and investigations recorded in the minutes shall become a means of proof; they shall only be used. I very often, but I don't like to repeat myself, I say – what helps you if you have a full garage of excellent, state-of-the-art tools, if those who work in this workshop don't know what it is, but still have the most modern tools there that can do it more efficiently and faster. Do you understand that parable?Oh, my God! I just want to say that we already have this legal, but it's just not used because it's not used enough times, but I don't want to generalise it, but it's obviously the easiest thing to put the case into the investigation by numbers and then live in some pretend that some investigative judge in six months, which is the time of instruction after the CAP, can take so long to investigate, but we know that in practice it's going on for a long time, it's done; twenty criminals and five prosecutors couldn't count in five years, and that's their basic function. The function of the judge is that he is a guarantor and therefore he assesses, but the evidentiary standard conditions are met. Psychological relationship between the prosecutor and the judge [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Old, he's off the air. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. This concludes the 11th item of the agenda. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ON THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTAL AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPETITION PROHIBITION PROHIBITION OF COMPETITION BY THE STRENGTHENING PROCEDURE The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Mrs Eva Stravs Podlogar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u90	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members, welcome and thank you for the opportunity to present the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition. You have before you a proposal for a law that builds on the applicable anti-competitive law under the rules of European Directive 2014/104/EU in certain rules governing compensation for infringements of competition law. On 2 March this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia established the text of the law and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption following a reduced procedure. It is proposed to adopt an amendment to the law supplementing existing legislation with certain rules on compensation claims for infringements of competition law. We believe that we have drawn up a law that will ensure a high level of competition protection without imposing unnecessary additional burdens on the economy. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the importance that the law before you is aligned with the professional public because of its subject matter. Therefore, the draft law, which we prepared in cooperation with the Public Competition Agency, was repeatedly presented to the various professional public, the Bar of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the courts and the Faculty of Law. The key objective pursued by the proposal for a law is to strengthen competition protection policy by ensuring that compensation is applied more effectively to violators of competition law. As the Court of Justice of the European Union has repeatedly pointed out, the filing of private indemnity actions against offenders strengthens competition protection policy because it discourages companies from participating in banned cartels and abuses of a dominant position. Dear President, honourable Members and Members, allow me to explain to you how and who in Slovenia provides competition protection. The protection of competition shall be ensured in public and private proceedings. Public protection is carried out by the European Commission and the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. However, public competition protection is not intended for direct protection of competing companies and consumers. Companies and individuals affected by infringements of competition law must be able to do so before the courts in civil proceedings. The purpose of this law is to ensure the effective exercise of the right to reparation resulting from infringements of competition law. Thus, we have pursued not only the objective of correct transposition of Directive 2014/104/EU, but also the objective of ensuring that competition law is implemented as effectively as possible because the right to redress strengthens the functioning of competition law and prevents businesses from operating in the market. To this end, the draft law lays down certain procedural and substantive rules. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the rules on the disclosure of evidence and the rules for assessing the level of damage. I hope and expect that, with the proposed legislation, we will ensure greater efficiency in the enforcement of compensation actions against violators of competition law and, consequently, greater respect for competition law orders. On the basis of this explanation, I propose that the proposed amendment to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act should also be confirmed and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mark Ferruga.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the Secretary of State with the team! The Committee on the Economy is at its 25th session 6. 4. 2017 dealt with the above-mentioned proposal for a law. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 88th session of 10. 3. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified procedure. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was provided with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the definition of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. The amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SMC, Desus and SD groups, namely Articles 3, 7, 8 and 10. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, in an additional explanation, drew attention to some possible problems that might arise in the implementation of the provisions of the proposed law. As an example, the introduction of a new evidentiary standard was cited, namely sufficient evidence of the existence of a compensation claim for a competitive infringement. It was explained that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and that the other proposals were explained in writing. In the opinion of the representative of the service, it will be demonstrated with regard to the latter by implementing the law whether the solutions are appropriate. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee supported the proposed solutions in most ways. The opinion was also expressed that the proposed amendments to the law would have positive effects on the creation of a favourable and competitive business environment and would help protect small and medium-sized enterprises. The debate raised a dilemma regarding Article 62a and the disclosure of the evidence concerning which the Ministry's representative provided an explanation of compliance with the European Directive and the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee considered and adopted amendments from SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 3, 7, 8 and 10. The Committee also voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted it. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report of the Committee, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you, President.Dear Madam Secretary with colleagues; colleagues and colleagues! The fundamental objective of competition protection in the Republic of Slovenia is to ensure an effective competitive environment that will promote innovation and technological progress, thus the prosperity of buyers and the greater competitiveness of the Republic of Slovenia on the world market. The proposal for an amendment transposes Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2016 on certain rules governing compensation under national law for infringements of the provisions of competition law of the Member States and of the European Union. The Directive deals with the issue of disclosure of evidence, the effects of national decisions, the ageing of solidarity responsibility, the prevalence of price differences, the assessment of the level of damage and the negotiated resolution of disputes. In addition to the provisions relating to the transposition of this Directive, some less difficult amendments and additions to the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act are proposed. An important novelty is that the proposal for a new and otherwise applicable law governs the obligation to disclose evidence of infringements of competition law rules. This is an important measure to facilitate access to data held by violators and third parties in the light of the existing arrangements for victims. This will make it easier for the injured person to enforce his claim for damage caused on the basis of infringements of competition law rules. The draft law further provides for the effect of the decision of the authorities of the Member States to protect competition and certain exceptions to the general provisions of the Bond Code on solidarity liability for damage caused by infringement of competition law, namely for small and medium-sized enterprises and for persons who report infringements of competition law to the Agency. In view of the transposition of this Directive, it is also necessary to extend the limitation period for compensation actions for infringements of competition law by proposing a subjective five-year period and an absolute ten-year period. The bill also regulates cases where the injured person reduced his injury by transferring it to the next level of the supply chain; and how to determine the damage in the lawsuits from different stages of the supply chain. Some provisions governing the effect of dispute settlement and the assessment of the level of damage are also proposed. This will make it easier for the complainant to determine the amount of damage in the action and facilitate the work of the courts. On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly, in accordance with Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, addressed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition by means of a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of less difficult amendments and additions to the law. In the Modern Centre Party, we support the proposed legislative changes because their implementation contributes to a safer business environment and build confidence in the business world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u96	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and distinguished representatives of the Ministry of the Economy! Let me say in advance that we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention of Competition, as we have supported a number of legislative proposals by the coalition; those that contribute to reducing bureaucratic barriers, and those that promote, but above all, to ensuring that the competitive environment in Slovenia works. The competition restriction law was passed by the first Janša government, because – I can also follow my colleagues from the SMC – we have set ourselves the goal of ensuring an effective competitive environment that will promote innovation and technological progress, thus the prosperity of buyers and greater competitiveness. Unfortunately, that competition restriction law 2008 was too late. It should have been about a decade before, as many monopolies have been established in Slovenia. One of such monopolies was mainly in the field of telecommunications, when the government also described the events surrounding Telekom, which was repeatedly sued, lastly in that other lawsuit concerning ISDN packages where the party in Slovenia had to pay for the first ISDN package so that it could then go on the broadband internet. This is one of the cases in which Slovenia has entered the transitional swamp in the field of competition, in the area of the fact that many state-owned companies have had the dominant influence and have pushed out foreign and domestic competition. The same company was Mercator, which you are saving today, which had expensive products that had too many employees and had no business model. We have cases in a number of areas, including the construction sector, when everyone has somehow begun to fail – whether they have failed or are on this path. What I want to say is what the amendment of this law brings and why we will support it is the determination of the right of victims to full compensation for infringements of competition law. It is important that it is an arrangement for the disclosure of evidence or data by which the court, subject to legal conditions and on the basis of a proportionality test, may order the counterparty or a third party, including the public authorities, to disclose evidence or data relevant to the case in question and to which the applicant claims to be present. Then establish measures to protect confidential information which may be ordered by the Court in order to protect confidential data. It is a matter of imposing sanctions for the possible failure to comply with a court decision. By also confirming the rebuttal that cartels are causing damage. I think that such an amendment to the law and the regulation of the European regulation, which the government representatives have also talked about, is absolutely necessary. As you know, Slovenians have a number of small, medium-sized enterprises. In Slovenia a number of multinational companies are not home, and that is why we must respect such laws and fully implement such laws. As a result of all of this, we will be fully supportive of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I said at the outset today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Tomaž Gantar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, good day to all! The new law ahead of us needs to be recast in order to implement the European Directive in the Slovenian legal order. It complements existing legislation with certain rules for compensation claims for infringements of competition law. This is therefore a matter of consumer protection in the first place. According to the new evidence disclosure institute, it will contribute to greater protection of the victims and the exercise of their rights. The injured person will make it easier to access information to sue claims for damages. In the Desus Group, we hope that the proposed changes will have positive effects on the creation of a favourable business environment and will help protect small and medium-sized enterprises. The novelty also brings some other solutions, such as measures to protect vulnerable business and other confidential information of the counterparty and arrangements for the limitation of compensation claims. As the adoption of the novel will allow the right of the victims to full compensation for infringements of competition law, we will also unanimously support the proposed amendment in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! Fair competition means that on a given market, the rules are the same for all; those competing for a larger piece of market share have the opportunity to obtain fair customers and businesses. This goes hand in hand, by preventing the temptation of large players to protect their existing market position by obstructing the entry of others. Competition between suppliers is of course lower prices of users, but if large players agree on prices, the effect may be the opposite. All of this is also related to the public interest and the security of products and services. If the so-called price war leads to dumping or low quality, which can endanger human health and safety, it is also permissible to restrict competition and the role of the State is great. Fair competition, which benefits people and the economy, does not form itself and the time-singing invisible deadline is often a powerless deadline. Competition must be encouraged and limited at the same time. Only to the right extent can it benefit those who compete in the markets and those who buy them. Since the European Union has long been more than just a set of national markets, its foundation is also a single market, it is all the more important that there are uniform competition rules. In specific cases, it is assessed in the courts where they weigh whether in an individual case someone has infringed competition rules, how much damage there was and who is injured. Only by means of uniform rules can competition be effectively protected and therefore the Directive is uniform at European Union level. In particular, the proposed legislative changes transpose European harmonised rules which relate mainly to the judicial proceedings which may be initiated by the injured parties if they consider that the provider has caused them harm by infringements of competition law. Since European law offers the right of victims to full compensation in such cases, in particular the procedure for proof of guilt for damage and its level should be regulated. Such procedures shall assess data which are otherwise business secrets. In the event that competition restriction proceedings are ongoing in several countries, this becomes even more difficult. There is even a risk that someone will initiate judicial proceedings only to obtain information about the business of a competitor through them. Therefore, most of the solutions to the bill relate to the arrangements for the disclosure of evidence in court proceedings in an effective manner, without jeopardising the business secrets of honest-acting companies. The law also clarifies the powers and functioning of the Public Agency for the Protection of Competition, defines the effects of its decisions and appeal procedures and deadlines. It guarantees the full right to compensation for damage caused, while preventing abuse by limiting it to proven and actual damage caused. The debate on the law on the committee responsible has shown that the law contains appropriate solutions. With the additions adopted, it is further ensured that the protection of competition will protect small ones from harmful large monopolies. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you, Vice President. In the United Left, we will not oppose the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition. Within the framework governed by the law, there are minor corrections that will have no greater impact on people, and in fact not on the economy. The novelty is mainly the transposition of Directive 104 of 2014. It lays down rules to facilitate the private enforcement of infringements of competition law, for example by facilitating the availability of information and rules for the enforcement of the right to compensation for damage caused by infringements of competition law. In doing so, it is important to draw attention to the practice which has become in some way a permanent part of the Government of Mir Cerar, and the Law on the Prevention of Competition has also drawn attention to this by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion. This is about the so-called creative transposition of European legislation into the Slovenian legal order. This creative transfer includes everything from mistakes to conscious circumventions or exacerbations in the direction which, of course, best corresponds to the political-economic centres of power. A few more words on the very framework of the law, i.e. the prevention of restrictions on competition. Competition is a way to enforce capital laws. To avoid sounding too abstract, competitive relations are those that ensure that capitalism works. This is why European legislation is strict and restrictive in this area. The European Union is based on a free market doctrine that allows for the freedom of movement of capital. What this competition means for workers and workers, on the other hand, is clearly clear. So-called race to the bottom. Race to the bottom, which means lowering wages, increasing the intensity of work, extending working time and everything else that belongs in this basket. For countries, on the other hand, tax cuts, restrictions on environmental requirements and, above all, reductions in social standards. But I'm not going to discuss why capitalism is wrong. There's only one answer to that. As much social activity as possible must be avoided precisely by the relationship of competition, this law will not regulate and not by such a way of thinking. As stated in the introduction, the minor changes brought by this law, which we are dealing with today, will not nevertheless be opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Ms Ludmila Novak will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u104	Dear, good-bye! Christian Democrats want markets that are competitive and healthy, which promote ambition in people. We do not want an economic policy that, through interventions or institutional silence, creates and supports monopolies, dominant companies and cartels that strip consumers of their privileged position and destroy all the remaining businesses and thus jobs. The task of the State is to create an effective legal framework that ensures free and fair competition, preventing the exploitation of consumers, economic crime and corruption. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Restriction on Competition affects an important segment of the area of regulation of the business environment and it is therefore appropriate to lay down the right to full compensation for infringements of competition law in accordance with the general rules of the compensation law, that is, in accordance with the Bond Act. The novelty in this area brings the provisions of the European Directive to Slovenian legal order. It is also right to harmonise with European secondary legislation the issues related to the procedure for detecting restrictive actions. The bill also provides solutions that are aimed at encouraging perpetrators to cooperate with the Agency through the settlement and leniency institutions. In Novi Slovenija we support the establishment of a longer subjective and objective limitation period for the lodging of compensation actions, as this proposal has expired within 5 years, since the infringement has ceased or since the complainant has been found to have committed a violation, injury and breach. In any event, the limitation period of the claim shall be set within a period of 10 years from the injury occurred. The proposal creates a reasonable challenge that cartels cause damage, which will, of course, facilitate evidence in cartel proceedings. Healthy competition is essential for the long-term development of the economy. A functioning socio-market economy is not without effective competition. Since the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restriction on Competition brings the necessary alignment with European legislation and some meaningful improvements, we will also support it in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Laj will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u106	Dear President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Dear Members and Members, I wish all of you a beautiful day. We in the Group of Non-Related Members will certainly support the proposal for a law on the prevention of restriction of competition, because we believe that by transposing a directive before us there are solutions that will help create healthy, fair competition, which is also a fundamental condition for creating a healthy, efficient, attractive business environment and thus a healthy economy. Only this path can lead us to a better future. It is very important that these legal solutions provide for a more effective resolution of compensation actions in violation of competition law. This means that all those to whom rights have been violated and who have suffered harm will be able to expect faster and more honestly to receive the resulting damage. This can be particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are the most exposed and also sensitive to such actions. Why? Because these companies are the ones with rather limited resources to resolve such disputes. And it can happen in this case, if they do not have available resources, financial resources and even human resources, then they may also fail. It is also very important that our legislation in this area is aligned with European legislation and is also comparable to European legislation. However, we would like to see these very useful directives transposed earlier, perhaps sooner than now, because this directive, as we have already heard, is from 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of agenda item 2.a. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We move on to the 2nd A-point of the agenda, which is to propose a law on the terms and conditions of appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration in the companies of the system of reference for the Republic of Slovenia under the urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Zdravek Počvalšk, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u108	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the distinguished others are present, well hailed! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 13. 4. 2017 set out the text of the proposal for a law on the conditions of appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia and forwarded it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption following an emergency procedure. The area of company law in the Republic of Slovenia is mainly regulated by the Act on Economic Companies, which is a fundamental system law in the field of company law and allows, within the framework of the so-called group privilege, that a majority shareholder as a controlling company gives to a subsidiary, a society of systemic importance, harmful guidance on the assumption that it will once be compensated. The proposal for a law will prohibit certain transactions between a society of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia and the majority of its members in view of the increased risk during the term of the term of office of an extraordinary member of the administration and thus exclude the validity of provisions relating to the group privilege which are permissible under normal circumstances, such as the granting of guarantees, guarantees, loans, commodity credits and the like, to a majority shareholder or related persons. It will also be prohibited to assume debts from a majority partner in difficulty. The draft law introduces additional control by appointing an extraordinary member of the administration who will be responsible only and solely for the management of business between society of systemic importance and its majority partners and associated persons. The draft law is without prejudice to a free economic initiative, since an extraordinary member of the board protects the interests of the company of systemic importance (employees, creditors, suppliers, minority shareholders) against the interests of the majority shareholder. The competence of an extraordinary member of the administration is also very limited because an extraordinary member will not be allowed to engage in regular business of the company of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia and is left to the regular administration in its entirety. The property right under the Constitution is not absolute, but it can be limited by proportionate legal measures that pursue a constitutionally permissible objective – the social and economic function of ownership. The proposal for a law is not constitutionally controversial, since the intervention in the property right of a majority of the company's shareholders is minimal in terms of the number of jobs, the indirect and direct impact of the company's operations on the economic, social and financial stability in the Republic of Slovenia and is fully proportionate. Let me give you the main solutions to the bill. The law establishes a society of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia and a majority shareholder in these companies. It establishes the relationship between the company of systemic importance and the majority of the shareholders in insolvency or restructuring proceedings in order to protect the interests of the company of systemic importance against the interests of the majority shareholder in difficulty. In view of the increased risk during the term of the term of office of an extraordinary member of the Management Board, it prohibits certain transactions and thus rules an exemption from the company’s privileges. It lays down the conditions for the appointment of an exceptional member of the company's administration of systemic importance where the majority shareholder of the company is of systemic importance in difficulty. This fact may endanger society of systemic importance and thereby the economic, social or financial stability of the Republic of Slovenia. It lays down the powers, responsibilities and termination of the term of office of an extraordinary member of the management of a company of systemic importance, which are limited solely to decisions concerning the management of all business associated with a majority partner or associated companies. An exceptional member of the administration shall establish a system of control, system of appropriate internal controls and reporting on all transactions related to a majority partner or associated persons. I propose that you support the bill, because in our view it is absolutely necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Mark Ferruga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to the Minister with the team! The Committee on the Economy is at its 47th emergency session. 4. treated the above-mentioned proposal of the law as the parent working body. The following material was submitted to the Committee: opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the following parliamentary groups: NSI to Article 4, followed by amendments from SMC, Desus and SD to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. The Committee adopted the amendments to the last mentioned articles. The Committee's amendment to Article 6 was also proposed, which was adopted by the Committee in the debate. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to some of the comments made in the written opinion, in particular concerning the limitation of the right to free economic initiative of companies of systemic importance. In the opinion of the service, the public interest is given, but the applicant should have reason to believe that these measures are at least an infringement of constitutional law and that these measures are proportionate. The draft law also provides that certain provisions of the current Law on Economic Companies are not to be applied. The service considers that this measure is a legitimate objective, but should be regulated in the Company Act as it poses an equal risk to all subsidiaries whose majority owner is in insolvency proceedings. The dilemma was also expressed as to the provision for the report to be presented by an extraordinary member of the board of directors responsible for the economy and finance. With regard to the proposals for amendments to the coalition group committee, the representative of the service explained that some of the amendments tabled followed the comments made by the service and further clarification was needed with respect to the others. The representative of the State Council further explained that the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance supported the proposed law and presented the reasons why the Commission considers the proposed measures to be reasonable and necessary. Representatives of Milkarna Celeia and Perunina Ptuj also participated in the meeting and expressed their support for the solutions to the proposed law. In the debate, some members of the Committee expressed support for the proposed law, considered that the proposed solutions sought to enable society to have systemic importance for business and to protect it from exhaustion by a majority shareholder and to be in insolvency or similar proceedings. The view was expressed that the solutions proposed constituted an appropriate basis for protecting society of systemic importance and did not constitute a disproportionate interference with the constitutional right to freedom of economic initiative. On the contrary, some discussers felt that the proposed solutions constituted an intervention in private property and were not in accordance with the Constitution, so they opposed the adoption of the proposed law. In their view, the applicable Company Act already provides for the protection of subsidiaries against the exhaustion of the parent company. The debate also expressed a dilemma as to the role and functioning of an extraordinary member of the administration in practice. The Minister and representatives of the Ministry responded to the questions raised and provided further clarifications on the dilemmas expressed in the debate. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to the Committee's amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 in accordance with Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendment of the NSI Group to Article 4, but unfortunately did not accept it. The Committee further voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report of the Committee, is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u112	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on the conditions of appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this is a law that is actually intended to save Mercator. We cannot support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party for a number of reasons. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed law constitutes an intervention in private property; an intervention in private property constitutes an intervention in the right of owners. We believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law is constitutionally controversial. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the current legislation, the Act on Economic Companies, is sufficiently protective of dependent companies against parent companies and that the approach taken by the Government of Mir Cerar, the coalition of parties of the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats and Desus is inadequate. We are confident that the proposed law will be voted on, at least in the light of the vote on the home committee. It's just a pyar marriage and it won't solve the matter. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, on the one hand, we regret that the coalition has decided to intervene in private rights. The fact is also that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out the type of irregularity. We do not understand the coalition, coalition MPs and Members, how they can explain that private society has a public interest. Dear Members and Members of the Coalition, yesterday we discussed the Banking Act, where for you 5 billion of the tax money invested is not of public interest; you see the public interest in private society. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is because of everything that has been said, because we are convinced that this law interferes with private property and private property is the basis of the Slovenian Constitution, the foundation of democracy, and we have not decided that amendments on the Committee and today's session would be applied to such poorly prepared and constitutionally disputed laws. The appointment of an extraordinary member through the court is controversial, but according to yesterday's events, we fear that the appointment of the governing bodies through the court will become a practice of this coalition. Yesterday you appointed a member of the Supervisory Board in the Slovenian State Holding through the Court. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that if the law is adopted today, it can interfere dangerously with appetites in the future. Slovenia has already faced nationalisation procedures since 1945 and we all know that nationalisation of Slovenia has cost a large number of billions. And the privatisation of Slovenian companies today is solely due to the Denationalisation Act, which was carried out after 1945. Such movements and such interventions into private law are unconstitutional and we cannot support such proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In a well - known place, there was a strategic agreement between prominent individuals. So the Mercator saga began, and politically, if you want, the mixing continued to lead to the sale of one of Slovenia's largest companies, which was skillfully wrapped in the story of Slovenian national interest. We sold the Mercator to the Slovenians, it was heard. But later on, I will be glad to say that it was not wise that the consortium of sellers, despite many warnings of Agrokor's incredible great debt, sold Mercator to the latter. And what to do now that Agrokor, allow this comparison, many times reminds us of the Titanic. In the Desus Group, we are convinced that everything must be done, but everything that does not result from the exhaustion of Mercator. Slovenia must be prepared in advance because of 10,000 employees and their families and a huge number of suppliers and must do everything possible to prevent possible unloving events and, consequently, catastrophic consequences. In other words, the current operations of Mercator are stable and we do not want to create the impression of the company's threat or jobs; but we believe that it would simply be irresponsible and unacceptable if we did not act in a timely manner. The Company Act in the context of the so-called Group Privilege under certain conditions also allows for harmful guidance from the parent company; however, it must replace any deprivation or damage at the expense of the subsidiary. Thus, in the event that an insolvency proceedings were initiated over the parent company, an increased risk would arise for the subsidiary that the parent would inadvertently exercise its influence on the subsidiary and force it to conclude harmful transactions. However, the subsidiary, despite its control, is a separate legal entity and its interest is not subordinated to the interests of the parent company, which can only enforce harmful instructions against the subsidiary if replaced. We therefore trust legal experts who claim that in such a case access to the current regime is necessary, necessary and justified; that irreparable damage to a subsidiary is avoided. We also believe that the bill does not affect the right of private property, which has been exposed, because the law does not interfere, for the first time, with the ownership structure and, secondly, does not interfere with the conduct of regular business of a society of systemic importance. Let me summarize a little bit simpler. It helps us a little more if it says that after harmful transactions the mother has to compensate for the damage, but if it is found in insolvency proceedings. If Mercator is quickly exhausted, we can only possess, look into the air, and look for the culprits. But then it can be too late.We are convinced by the Desus Group that such a law must be adopted, so we will unanimously support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u115	The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Jan Škoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Article 74 of the Constitution states that economic initiative and profit-making are free but should be limited. The only way to limit profit forging through our constitution is by public benefit. Our Constitution therefore indirectly recognises that freedom of borders and that private enterprise experiments cannot overcome the interests of the community, the public and security in the name of seeking profit. Where public interest goes beyond private interest, the right of private capital to do whatever it wants shall also cease. Our rights end where the rights of others begin, and this logic also works the other way around. In addition, our Constitution speaks of the fact that the use and acquisition of property is always framed by an environmental, social and economic function – even though private property. That this public interest, which must be clearly justified in order to prevent a private person from exercising his property, must happen something that can undoubtedly cause exceptional and, above all, irreparable harm to the wider community. An example of a large and important company that employs 10,000 people and depends on the fate of many others, even 100,000 people, is certainly something that the government must respond to if necessary, whether through a legal restriction or through a legal procedure that allows greater control. It is necessary to take into account the impact that the potential owner's behaviour on all of us has on the whole country. Today's proposal therefore refers to systematicly important companies whose owner is in insolvency proceedings and under his own kind of administration, even though the latter is not in that country. The already existing legislation, this is true, otherwise does not allow the company to be exhausted, so that the owner would eat up the basic capital, the fixed assets; or the damage caused would not be compensated in any way. Therefore, the proposal of the law allows that, in the case of systemically important undertakings, the instructions for a subsidiary are null and void and that the court may appoint a special member of the administration whose task it is to protect a subsidiary against the exhaustion of the owner. It is therefore crucial to establish an internal control system, in particular that transactions with a majority owner and related subsidiaries cannot be carried out without the agreement of a member of the administration who was in the interest of the general public, the interests of the company and, in particular, the interests of ensuring the stability of the functioning, employment and financial flow of that company, do not cease. Such solutions, although in spite of many objections, are consistent with our constitutional arrangements and are proportionate, since they are limited and conditional, only that part of property rights which can be directly at the expense of public interest and which can directly cause irreversible and irreparable consequences. It is difficult to say that this is a law that is not based on a specific situation and on a specific case, because of course this is true. This is the Mercator case, which, despite the fact that this is a private enterprise, is of systemic importance to our country. The law before us is an important follow-up to the responses of at least two countries, namely the Republic of Croatia and the announced measures of the Republic of Serbia, to protect on one side of the matrix, on the other, the dependent suppliers. It would be irresponsible of the Government not to take all the necessary measures, including this law, to ensure, if necessary, by double checking that provisions already in force and preventing the depletion of businesses would not be consistently enforced in this case. When it is too late, the debate will be over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u117	Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Joint Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you, Vice President. Have a nice hello again! In the United Left, we will not oppose the law, although the law will not produce any tangible results; on the other hand, it will not harm employees or businesses. The so-called Lex Mercator is in the first place the promotional move of this government, which wants to wash its hands over the difficult situation of Mercator, which has an extremely important role for the Slovenian economy and depends on which many jobs depend. Agrokor's scenario, which is now being implemented, was clearly recorded at the time of sale three years ago. So it's nothing unexpected. The government, which has so far followed the logic of all past governments in the past decade, has not wanted to protect and develop vital national economic interests, which Mercator is an essential part of the entire food processing sector, with the usual mechanisms of state ownership and industrial policies and financial instruments, which are in fact not unusual abroad. The government is now taking action by adopting a law to send some political commissioner to Mercator's office. Like Magna Steyr, she rewrote the law for just one company. In fact, the government is acting like some kind of law firm. But on the other hand, we have a real problem. Mercator is expected to have some EUR 50 million in losses due to claims to the Consummation, and more hundred million write-offs in the event of bankruptcy are threatening; however, the law we are about to adopt today does not solve this problem, in fact, it does not address it at all. In the past, the Slovenian political and financial elite has sold out the entire Slovenian food processing industry. With subsidies we support the production of Slovenian food and try to raise the level of self-sustainment; at the same time we have closed down the possibility that these crops will even find space on commercial shelves. By selling Mercator, the Slovenian food chain was literally headed. Fear of reducing the purchase of Slovenian crops and replacing imported crops has proved to be more than justified. This has brought additional pressure on producers, which in the long run also means job losses, the destruction of infrastructure and lower tax revenues. Lex Mercator is also here to divert attention. Instead of national economic, labour and ownership aspects, we are talking about a banal extraordinary member of the administration. Just before Mercator's sale, an initiative for alternative labor-consumer-supply purchases of the company and transformation into our Mercator co-operator came to the public. From the political centres of power, the initiative has only achieved that one of the initiators is now the State Secretary in the Cabinet of Prime Minister Mir Cerar. He is responsible for economic democracy, which is also one of the pillars of the coalition treaty. Economic democracy is also part of a coalition treaty where the government has done nothing at all. That's the end of it. Right hand and conservative media are declaring the law socialist, as it is intended to intervene in the constitutionally guaranteed right to private property. Let me reassure you, the marriage has nothing to do with socialism. By allowing a state to appoint an extraordinary member of the administration who will monitor that there is no exhaustion, we cannot even consider it a serious state intervention in the economy. As it is said, it is fog mixing, and the key problems remain unanswered. The main sins have already been committed in the past, including underground sales by the Janša government. For this reason, in the United Left, we will abstain from the proposal for a law on the conditions of appointment of a special member of the administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u119	The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Mag. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u120	Dear Members, dear Members, good afternoon! It's a political law that Mercator himself can't solve. It's an unconstitutional invasion of private property. For the government intends to appoint a member of the administration to the administration of a private company to prevent the company from being exhausted. How? In order to monitor transactions after them and to report to the Minister and the Supervisory Board on transactions with the owner for certain periods. If you happen to find such a Super Mario in Slovenia, a super person who can do and control all these things, then this is great, but despite all of this this solution will not solve the fundamental problems Mercator has today. This law certainly does not solve two very pressing issues — real estate. Mercator's property in Croatia without any payment is used by the Consumer and Mercator does not receive funds for such use. On the other hand, Mercator pays expensive rents to the consumer, or Agrokor, in other former Yugoslav republics. This is one of the fundamental issues that this law certainly does not solve, but they are extremely problematic and in Mercator they are multimillion-dollar damage, not measured in millions, but measured in tens of millions of euros. Nor does this law solve the next problem with the future of Mercator, what is the attitude towards banks, how this society will develop in the future. We can simply say and say that we have a law that bears a beautiful name, but its operational value is extremely poor. This is similar if I use the illustration as if we were to claim that the bus would certainly reach the goal without any major problems if we added the conductor to the bus next to the driver. Anyone who knows at least a little about the nature of traffic knows that the guide is not the key to whether or not the bus will arrive safely at the destination; but it is the driver. There are very strong legal arguments against this law. We are certainly on the side of those constitutional lawyers who claim to be an unconstitutional intervention in private property; and here is worth comparing Lex Agrokor and Lex Mercator. Here it must be admitted that the Croats have written a slightly more sophisticated law. The Croatian law requires the owner's consent to place a government officer in the company; in a Slovenian case, we do so without the owner's consent. And at least in this sense, Croats can interpret that this is not an intervention in property law, because the owner had to engage this government officer, Todorić had to invite this government officer. And that is also why New Slovenia has tabled an amendment to Article 4, which we are trying to make this law at least a little more constitutional. There are also a number of business arguments why this law is not appropriate. Today you were able to read about a number of business arguments through Slovenian media and online portals. The fact is that the experience we have with the Croats is bad that Croats do not in principle adhere to agreements; and this has been the case since independence, since they did not retain the tanks of the Yugoslav Army in their barracks, until today. It is clear, therefore, that the Croats will save themselves first in this story, and only then will they look at everyone else. Therefore, it is right that all those who claim that Mercator is urgently needed to be saved say honestly that the only solution for Mercator is to be bought by the government or by the Slovenian state, if you think so. It is clear from all this that Nova Slovenija will not support this law and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u121	The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Franc Laj.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u122	Dear President, Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, once again a very nice greeting from me! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we see this envisaged solution not clearly. Why? Because the picture isn't black and white. We believe that all these problems of appointing an extraordinary member of the board will not be resolved. Why? Since this extraordinary member of the administration will be in the administration as a foreigner, he will have the right to veto business decisions related to the majority owner and related companies. Will this extraordinary member be able to himself — most likely to be alone in this situation — to perform and justify this function in a qualitative, effective manner, in accordance with the country’s professional and most likely guidance?Oh, my God! Very hard. However, the matter is such that once the appointment of a special member of the board is made, it is somehow increasing control; let us hope that this will be the case. Internal control is already in place under the current legislation, under the Companies Act, under an insolvency law which specifies that acts of an administration that are harmful to an undertaking or an economic company are prohibited or, if they are done, should also be held accountable for them. Unfortunately, we have not seen this practice before. Will that change? Let's hope it does. This internal control is carried out in the current system in such a way that there is a supervisory council and a congregation of this society. Will they conduct themselves honestly and supervise the administration of this extraordinary member or without an extraordinary member? Most likely we should; if not, it means they broke the laws. All of this points to certain problems in intra-group relations, because it is a group that the majority owner can pressure the administration and this administration can rely on injury. However, we should be aware of this and also look at what has happened so far and introduce appropriate sanctions. Because even if an extraordinary member comes, if there is no sanction, then unfortunately we have not reached the goal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u123	Ms Andreja Potočnik will present the position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u124	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Minister with a team, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure in order to avoid difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State. The provisions of the Company Act allow a parent company, a parent company, to instruct a subsidiary, a daughter’s company, to manage businesses that are harmful to it. It's a so-called corporate privilege. By appointing an extraordinary member of the administration to society of systemic importance, we will use a proportionate measure to protect companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia against exhaustion. We welcome and support the Government's swift action. It makes sense to us to step away from the company privilege. This proposal prevents and protects the interests of domestic suppliers, employees of the system company and associated entities and, as a result, prevents the possible deterioration of the social and economic situation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill thus establishes companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia, which have a significant impact on economic, social and financial stability in the Republic of Slovenia. However, two conditions must be met; that the company employs at least 6,000 people in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and that it achieves net sales revenues of more than EUR 1 billion. In the event that the majority owner of the parent company is in insolvency proceedings or other similar proceedings, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may propose to the Court that he appoint a temporary special member of the administration who, together with the other members of the administration, shall represent and take decisions on the management of all transactions related to the majority owner or related companies. An extraordinary member of the board shall not have the power to conduct regular business of the company. This remains fully within the domain of regular administration. The proposal does not prejudice the free economic initiative, since it protects the interests of the company of systemic importance (employees, creditors, suppliers, minority shareholders) against the interests of shareholders by additional, independent and independent supervision. The competence of an extraordinary member of the administration is also very limited. The law is without prejudice to the ownership structure and does not interfere with the conduct of regular business of a company of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia. It should also be borne in mind that property rights under the Constitution are not absolute, but can be limited by proportionate legal measures that pursue a constitutionally permissible objective, such as the social and economic function of ownership. We believe that the solutions in this law follow this constitutional logic fully. The intervention in the company's ownership right of systemic importance is minimal in terms of the number of jobs and the direct and direct impact of the company's operations on the economic and social environment of the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, we do not want to embark on past decisions regarding Mercator's fate and related political interests. Clearly, mistakes have been made, as this is evidenced by the fact that we are discussing this issue today. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will certainly support the proposal for a law on the conditions of appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u125	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors. Colleagues and colleagues, I ask, is there any interest in the debate? I understand that it is, so I invite you to sign up for the debate. The application shall be made. First of all, Mr. Weber has the word. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! In the last event recorded due to the problems of Agrokor, I have repeatedly called on the government to try to do everything and implement the anti-corruption clause, which is an integral part of the sales contract. There has not been a serious verification by this time. If this is checked, we don't need the law, we don't need the amendment that's been tabled. The contents of the amendment, which will certainly be presented in detail by colleagues from New Slovenia, but if I am looking at this data correctly, it is the consent of the majority owner that we can also have some kind of representative in the administration. So why even ask for the consent of someone, let's say one question if we haven't done all the steps we can take at home? And the anti-corruption clause is one of those that needs to be checked immediately. When corruption is established, the contract becomes null and void, and all problems or problems are eliminated, whether we need it or not. We don't need him. Otherwise, if the law is adopted, I expect a representative who will somehow become a member of this administration to check how many uncovered coins are in Slovenian banks and Slovenian suppliers. It is a New Ljubljana Bank; First Factor, Zagreb; NLB Serbia, Perutnina Ptuj and other suppliers. How much did Mercator pay for other Agrokor companies, such as meat from Spain, for Pik Vrbovec, purchases for Ledo, guarantees for other Agrokor companies? The fact is that Agrokor has not had money for purchases in the European Union in recent years, only Mercator has been able to pay. In Croatia he paid Agrokor in half a year, of course it is not possible abroad, he had to pay under these conditions – immediately. He didn't have any money for that. How much money did Mercator pay for marketing services in Croatia? How much of this Mercator money was spent on Mercator and how much for other Agrokor companies? The fact is also that the question is whether in the next 15 months one of the Slovenian suppliers will even be able to get money from Agrokor due to Lex Agrokor. And what I think really should be checked and taken into account by the anti-corruption clause is the following fact – the requirement for Mercator's sale was that Agrokor buys with its capital. That is indisputably not true. And since he didn't buy his money, that could be the basis for breaking the contract. This is a specific matter on which you can immediately rely and go into a process of cancelling the sales contract. Agrokor also submitted non-real balance sheets which were the basis for even allowing him to tender for Mercator's sale. Also here is this point of the anti-corruption clause, which has to be verified how it was possible that he would have even joined the purchase if he had an unrealistic balance sheet. Who's been reviewing these balances and these conditions? And how many payments were made for this in all those who reviewed and advised? Once again, it is a matter of advisory contracts, some of which are publicly known. If not, the Commission has this information in order to prevent corruption and it is necessary to request the Commission to prevent corruption all, the entire list of lobbyists involved in the sale of Mercator. That's what KPK has. Minister, here I ask you to listen to me, why we really don't need this law and how we can immediately check everything I list without marriage. If you call the Director of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and tell her to send financial inspectors to Mercator immediately and to review all these operations, the matter may immediately be verified without any law, without any question as to whether or not it is a matter of unconstitutionality. Just pick up the phone, call the Director of the Financial Administration, she'll send the inspectors and she'll look at all these financial flows and questions that I've been opening up in my debate. So we do not need the law if the Financial Administration reacts immediately and immediately in accordance with its powers; in fact, it should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u127	Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u128	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister with a team, a MP and an MP! Today we are talking about an important law that touches on one very large economic society, which is connected to about 100,000 jobs. My colleague, Janko Vebra, would somehow agree with the debate, particularly in the points where he criticised the work of past governments, the bad practices in the process of selling this large company, which I think was a catastrophic move. I do not know which previous governments have been involved, and I will not mention them; I only know that in Slovenia there has been almost one bus of economic ministers who have changed in one way or another – one was theorists, the other philosophers – and we have brought our country into such a situation that we have resold companies that have been members of some vertical links and in this way have literally destroyed our important economic, food processing chain. From this point of view, I assess this move, the adoption of this law's proposal, as a normal management move in every economic system. In this case, Minister Restorationšek, who has also built his experience in good practices in managing food chains, has cured them, so that in this sense I fully trust the Minister and the team that in the given situation he has reacted very quickly, decisively, to draft a law that will show our neighbours that we too can react in some way and eliminate the mistakes and kicks of the previous governments and the bad moves in selling our assets. Of course, I would also draw similar bad practices into other industries, not just in the food processing chain. We are discussing a great deal in the National Assembly on the Forest and Forest Chain. Similar story, we sold Sloveniales, sold off Lesnina, and now what?Oh, my God! The forest industry has collapsed, and some of the other articles, which are now rather selfish, are talking about a forest member of the chain that is boisterous and still desirable. And here too the minister came with a good solution in the law on management of state forests, which re-establishs some normal conditions for setting up chains. And even in this case, I see that this law saves mistakes from the past, brings a quick response so that we can solve what else we can do. I can't understand it when some fellow Members say that this is some piranha move by the Modern Centre Party and the minister that now he likes to be painted on television, that some law has been passed. It just doesn't hold. This is, as I have already mentioned, a good law that will allow the country of Slovenia to prevent neighbours from exhausting us, destroying our "best neighbor", in this case Mercator, which was once. As far as the law is concerned, I think this is a relatively good solution, even if we are now referring to some property – private, such or different. It is essential that we save or prevent the final destruction and exhaustion of this system of large companies and, in this connection, around 100,000 jobs. If any further bold move is to be made, it may be possible to re-establish the food processing chain, from production to sales, then we will come back to some good, successful story, which could be. Sadly, though, because of poor moves and unwise reselling of individual chain articles, it also led to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u129	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u130	Ambassador Ranc, I could say, from your mouth into God's ears, that this law may be preserved and saved by Mercator; but this law is short. If you read it according to articles, then you can see that the powers of this government political commissioner in the Mercator administration are very limited; and this political commissioner has virtually no authority and a decision to influence Mercator's business alone. This man will not be able to influence what the future of Mercator will be and what they will do with this Mercator in the future. In order not to sail too far, I would touch on the debate on Article 4 which we now have on the agenda. It is our amendment, which says a very simple thing, if the government wants to cut into private property, it must get the owner's consent; it is very simple. If the government wants to set up a political commissioner, it must get the owner's consent; because in the democratic and Western world, the axioms are clear. If you own it, you own it. A minimum standard that we must meet is to ask the owner for his consent if he agrees to do so. The owner sets up a supervisory board, sets up an administration, and here it is certainly necessary for a normal country to have its consent. That's definitely it. And even though we sometimes laugh a little bit or we don't like it most down there in the South, as things do in the Balkans, but I say again, here the Croats were sophisticated and they gave the owner's consent to the marriage. So far things have come that Todoric had to initiate this law, call on the government, if you want, to ask the government authority to come and manage the Agrokor. I don't know if his hands were twisting, whether he was being threatened with prison, I don't know what the Croats were doing with Todoric to engage this article. It's all on paper and this relationship – constitutional matter and property rights, I think they've done what we haven't done. Let me just go on a relationship with these things. If we say that Agrokor is managed by the Croatian government today because he has an authority there, it would in some way mean that the Croatian government is a representative of the owner, that is, Mercator's owner. And a lot of people are going to say, why do you now suggest that we get the Croats' consent so that we can put an attorney in the Mercator's office?Oh, my God! I think this is where the main point is. I would like the Croatian government, as well as Nova Slovenija, so we proposed this amendment, and put it out. Let them at least commit themselves, at the declaration level, to being against the exhaustion of Mercator; and if they do what they say or would force them to do it, “force” it would be very clear whether they are serious when they promise and say that they will not exhaust Mercator. And if we do not give our consent to the government's setting its Commissioner, then we are quick to see what time it is. Then we know we're about the same as we were at the time of the seclusion. At that time, Mr Tudjman promised us some others to block the exit of tanks from Croatian barracks against Slovenia. And of course they didn't do it and we had them on the borders and in Slovenia. These stories, how they do not hold to words and how the arrangements here are the Spanish village, are very eloquent. With regard to what Member Weber has discussed, I can only agree with this that we already have several tools that the government can use today. The operational value of these tools is greater than this law. This marriage has a beautiful name, but a weak operational value. And if we could get the anti-corruption clause involved here, then we're more than halfway there. Then who would say Mercator is ours if he could prove that corruption took place here. In all other cases, however, the path to Mercator's solution is still very long. Even if this law is adopted today and voted by the coalition majority, this government authority will unfortunately not be able to solve the key problems. And as I said at the end of the line, those who today are great advocates of Slovenian national interest and the need to save Mercator, to re-establish the timber processing industry or, in this case, the food industry, then know how these things are done; not by words, but by concrete actions, not by appointing a political commissioner, but by buying businesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u131	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Honourable Minister with the team; colleagues and fellow Members! Some in this National Assembly defend the inviolability of private property, regardless of the fact that property rights are exercised in a way that affects the rights of an indirect 100 000 citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. These people no longer have an important job, not a person who gets up every day, goes to work for a small salary, not a domestic economy that fights for a surcharge, claims, families that live by a Slovenian citizen, supplier, worker, creditor. This is more important than the inviolability of the private property of large foreign corporations, regardless of the consequences. In this place there is all ideological blindness, which gives priority to a reasonable decision. The neoliberal concept should become part of the past and a human being should be put at the forefront. I do not understand how some can still defend the interests of large capital before the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Regardless of the fact that Pope Francis is pressing our clear path into humanism and the restoration of human values, they still swear solely on the ideas of large capital, regardless of the consequences. Even though they are Members of Parliament and form the rules of this society and have every opportunity to confirm this law, they will not do so because of their faith in the neoliberal concept. The Constitution states in Article 33 that the right to private property is guaranteed. Article 67 of the Constitution provides that the law provides for a method of acquiring and consuming property by ensuring its economic, social and environmental function. An individual shall not be unlimited in the exercise of his or her property rights, but shall also take into account the interest of other members of the community and of the community as such, as recorded in one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. What else can we do than act quickly to protect the interests of our community? Is the protection of a well-functioning system company against the exhaustion of the interest of our community? Some believe that it is not; that the interest of our community is the same as that of foreign corporations, from which it will also bury people. What does the private interest have to do with the interest of the community of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? That they coexist in cohabitation and not destroy each other, but make the environment possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u133	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Zdravko Restoršek with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Interestingly, we are talking about the proposal for a law on the conditions of appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia and we are talking most about Mercator. I don't think it's in the whole law; I don't think, I'm sure, I know that the word "Mercator" is not mentioned in the law. I believe that Mr Minister, whom I highly appreciate, knows what needs to be done to the Slovenian economy, which has the potential of a rocket, as the German Member of the German Parliament said a few days ago at the New Slovenia Economic Club, the president of a group of friendships with Slovenia in the Bundestag, and I believe that the Minister knows what the Slovenian economy needs in order to have more economic freedom. As far as economic freedom is concerned, we are practically at the bottom of international scales. I regret that this figure of 6,000 is placed in this law in Article 2 and that those companies that employ 6,000 or more are companies that have a systemic character. Here I would rather see that the number is such if you said that NLB is a system bank, that it would also be a system society under this law; and that you would also send a supervisor to NLB to see what's going on there. What has been going on is noted by the parliamentary investigative committee led by Dr. Ange Logar. This parliamentary commission has done the most so far, but in some ways it is a toothless tiger under the law; because those who have teeth do nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, every day, people ask me to take away those who took away from us. 45 minutes ago, ladies and gentlemen, Mercator's supervisory board began to take place. There'll be business results tomorrow. Mercator's a good firm, so there's no mistake, and I'm among the first ones I want to keep doing good business for more people every month. But if I'm just monitoring the information, let's say they're right by half, I'm very worried. If we're in favour of protecting Mercator, and I'm in favour of protecting Mercator, but in accordance with corporate governance rules. No one will convince me, either ideologically or ideologically, that private property is not untouchable. Private property is untouchable. And when you're saving Mercator, you're saving Todoric, which is why I'm not here. Maybe not because I am a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. I am not here because Lex Agrokor, who was accepted by the Parliament, actually did something good for the “Todorić family”, for the Todorić family. He didn't dissipate her. And when we save one of the business entities owned by the Todoric family, we rescue Todoric. I repeat, I'm not here. However, all those who follow, monitor or monitor the business of Slovenian companies should have long ago seen that Mercator is brutally exploited and exploited when Agrokor crashed. Our debate would probably be more, as I would say, realistic, not so ideological if we had business results on the table. We'll have them tomorrow, but today is the marriage on the table, probably for special reasons. When I try to simulate how this law will work in new laws or in any way, then I think, and today I firmly believe that this member of the board, who will be a supervisor who will watch the transactions to the mother company, read the stepmothers and subsidiaries – see, there is no way. No way. Those who may have been in larger business entities know how payments are made there, that there may be several thousand invoices per day or contractual obligations that need to be settled, which have fallen or whatever; there is no way that one person would watch all these transactions and see where the money is going. And then, once the money runs out, he'll turn on the red light, he'll say, "Yeah, this deal is broke, but the money's already gone. What I said on the board, I repeat. Mercator will be able to direct a few ten million to a football club in Croatia, and this Commissioner, who is a member of the board that we are hosting or housing today, will only quietly watch how a few ten million will go to a football club. When it's a football game, tickets are sold for cash. Can I make a scenario for this cash to land — where? Yeah, with the Todoric family, for example. This law may not be a hundred percent toothless tiger; however, I am sure that 99% of this board member will be a toothless tiger; this will simply be nothing. The fact is that the public expects the government, from the coalition, from the National Assembly to protect Mercator; let it cost what it wants. I was a little disappointed and awkwardly surprised when I also listened to the heated debates on the Committee by those Members and Members, by those members of the previous term of office, in favour of Mercator's sale. One of the vice-presidents of today's government talked a lot about Mercator and Mercator's sale, saying so much that the stock actually collapsed. We sold Mercator's entire business system for very little money. In order to get at least a little closer to the rules of corporate governance in force in Europe, in the world, we have written an amendment to Article 4 presented by our colleague Matthew. I suggest you think about him. I'll definitely support him, but I can't make the marriage work. I'll object to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u135	Colleagues and colleagues, because there is an interest after the debate, I invite you to apply for the debate. Here you go. Check in. Mr. Ivan Prelog has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you. In parallel with the implementation of the proposed law, I think it would also be very useful to examine the claims of a respected colleague of Mr Weber; for if they hold on to you, perhaps we can simplify or shorten the matter substantially and solve the whole thing for our benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u137	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much, colleague German. I am not one of those zealous ones, as has been said before, who advocates that this law must be supported in every way and draw arguments from the veins as to why it is good. But at this point I see no better alternative, colleagues and colleagues, I see no better alternative, which would allow us at least the extent of protection offered by this law to protect 10,000 and more jobs in Mercator, as a result, I suppose, at least 10,000 employees working in Mercator and their existence. There's still a big supply chain. And if we add all this together, I have previously heard data moving around 100,000 jobs, to 100,000 people who are either dependent or at least partially dependent on a company called Mercator, which is an economic society of systemic importance. Neither the law nor any of the discussers spoke of any national interest, of national importance. And if you want to talk about it, you can talk about it, but it's written in the law – a systemic meaning that has a significant impact on economic, financial and social stability in our country. We are under the amendment, but there is also a slightly broader debate, as far as the amendment is concerned, of course I will not support it. I will not support him for a simple reason, because if we put ourselves in the role of such a naive person, that we expect Mother, that is, Agrokor, to agree to let someone in Mercator, then, of course, there is no expectation that this law will see the light of the world and that we will be able to help ourselves with it. The dilemma exists and is in place at the final stage when you ask yourself, that is, property from the god of the day, the world, whatever; but you know, me and us in Desus were persuaded by those lawyers, and not by lovers' lawyers, they made it clear to us that in at least two points, at a point where we are not interfering with the ownership structure; and at a point when this politician is not involved, I tell him the Commissioner when he does not interfere or does not interfere with the conduct of regular business of the society of systemic importance. These are two arguments that have convinced us that the matter is not disputed, that the matter is not against the Constitution, that the matter is not contrary to the legal order of our country, but is broader. Of course, we can talk and look back on how we should do otherwise, how this was wrong. But you know that saying – After battle, it can be any general. And I think the most useful and productive is not to go back. But it is very appropriate that we today and here make the right decision and look to the future. So that we don't stand with our hands crossed, and it's not right to stand with our hands crossed; and then, when something happens, we can just ring the bells and it'll be too late for a lot of things. These are all arguments that we will attach this law to Desus, supported and confidently, believing that a new social bomb will not happen. We know something about these social bombs and these traumatic issues from a half-lived history in the social field. In Maribor, we know that TAM sank, and Metaln sank, and TVT sank, and practically the entire Melian swimming pool sank. We wouldn't want that to happen on the Mercator case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u139	Mr Jani Möderndorfer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Chairman. We have before us a law that some people today have very vehemently explained. I am sure that this law would not really be or perhaps, I suppose, today might not even be on the agenda if someone in the past did not decide to sell Mercator. And, colleague Tonin, don't mind me, but you were in that coalition when the Prime Minister sold this Mercator back then; and today we have what we have. Whether it was right or wrong, in the final stage today it is just speculation and we call it the past; some will say that it is not true. But because we are in the essence of this law and because you are proposing and today explaining this, and your colleague Horvat is in the same way that property rights are absolute, untouchable under the Constitution; of course this will not hold. And you know it. But it is true that each one of us in this room can continue to repeat the same thesis, which is — it can be constitutionally controversial. And we're all doing it the same way. But what disturbed me in your debate, and I will be very specific, what can this representative, who will be appointed to the board of directors, do?Oh, my God! It was said, there's veto. Yeah, that's why he's got a veto and more importantly, when he can be named. That's not what we're talking about today. When the conditions are met. Why is it important to stress this? It is important to stress in particular because we must be aware that at the time it means that society is already in a serious crisis or is insolvent. And this very clearly tells you one article in front of an article that you've amended. This is Article 3, which speaks of the conditions when this can happen. Why does that matter? Because that's when the biggest raccoons happen. At that time, we need to ask quickly what these large companies are doing, which are really the most problematic ones. For ordinary societies, we have an insolvency law that speaks very clearly about what the procedures are like in such a case, and so on, that I do not owe any debt. But when we go to corporate companies, we have a serious problem because we have chain reactions from moms and daughters. And more importantly, in Croatia, I do not know in detail what was going on there, but I am sure that in the case of Agrokor, they do not have the experience we have of our tycoons and from the past period and if I am speaking to the Mercator case. Or I'll say on the case of a company where Laško owned Mercator and another company called Fructal. Why did I mention Fructal? It's only right to say one thing out loud. When the director of Mercator Toni Balažič resigned, I remembered – you know what things? First I asked myself, why the hell did he just give up? On my own. You all remember that Balažič led the company Fructal and you all know the story of exhaustion when Laško was exhausted by Tasti Fructal, led by Balažič. And later in the proceedings, this was more or less apparent, even saying repeatedly that he had to do what he was asked to do. And this is this problem that we can see today in Mercator and Agrokor when it comes to serious exhaustion and intolerable transactions, which in this case could also be vetoed by this Commissioner. And that's why it's going. And this suggestion of yours that only on behalf of this neo-liberalist concept – property is a sacred right, let the masters rule; but if they fail and fail, it is their problem, because they do it with their own property. I'm sorry, we need to figure out another thing that's even more important than this. When will the public interest come to pass? Firstly, of course, we need a law that also stands legally. And secondly, more important than that, we keep repeating, today is the third time, one and the same number, indirectly and directly, it is a related 100,000 jobs that depend on this system. And that's why I think it's still an important interest; and not what my colleague Horvat said before me when he said that he didn't do this story. No, we're responsible for this story here, and thank God once, for once, we're taking a step before anything happens. I hope, however, that this story may never have to be activated. Why 6 grand? Because we're talking about corporations, not small or medium-sized enterprises. Because it's clear to everyone, my friend Horvat says we all know it's a Mercator. If you ask yourself, who has 6,000, it is more or less clear that this is a security guard that we are talking about more or less today in this debate. We can count on the fingers of one hand which society is in the Slovenian space. Then we have another interesting question or reference. My colleague Horvat called for a reason why the NLB government does not appoint one such procurator. Please, that's ridiculous. It's really funny to do these comparisons for the first time, because we know that NLB is co-owned by the state and Mercator isn't. It's not even about these comparisons, and we have each other's company on these issues. In addition, today, to mention that the Minister can call Furs with one phone call and send some kind of tax inspection, and then I'll ask the Minister in health what he's doing. Inspection is an independent body and by law it is known how it must work. The minister can't call the inspection a little bit – come on, you go over there, you go over here. Nice please, where we're going in this country, if we're going to send inspections here and there now. [[…]] But if you know and if you're used to doing it from the time of your government, then I'm worried about how it worked; and I hope it doesn't. Finally, all I can say is that you are deliberately using the word "government political commissioner" to make it even more theatrical. I am sure that, thank God, at least once as opposed to the Croats, who have just found out what kind of lumpariums and how their heads will be hurt by Agrokor, because the story is not yet finished there, we have made one move before that and we have also warned the owner of Mercator what awaits him if he thinks in the event of poor management in such a way that it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u141	Mr. Franz Breznik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I will somehow try to continue my thinking mainly through the opinions of economic law, economic status law and in this connection to the Slovenian Constitution. The Slovenian Constitution speaks of a free economic initiative in Article 74 and speaks of restricting this free economic initiative in particular circumstances. Now we can look at some of the jurists of the Constitutional Court who were not bound by such laws, because this law is a novelty or at least thinking about such a law. However, we can see in what ways the free economic initiative is also limited in other European countries or in their procedures, when restrictions may occur. You spoke today, and I agree with my colleagues when they said that property rights are not absolute as well. This is the first year of law school, I'll tell you this, in so-called civil law, in the first or second year of law school, depending on who you go to; in the first or second year of civil law there is also a mention of property rights and when it can be restricted by the state. I will limit myself to Article 74 of the Constitution – limiting the free economic initiative. The problem with this marriage, what I said yesterday, is that it's on the verge of constitutional permissibility. The constitutional admissibility limit is mostly concluded by what is the explanation, what is the argument and what is the counter-argument. Where does it come from, where the country has so far restricted its free economic initiative? Does anyone know? So far, we have some constitutional decisions, one such as the conduct of detective activity. As you know, a detective's license can't be obtained by someone who's been somewhere in the police or in our security-intelligence department two years ago because he could use some data, information; and, say, within less than two years, he could do some activity that wouldn't be in line, he'd probably be in violation of a convention. Here is the Constitutional Court, I can say, restricting the free economic initiative. In economic law, where it is, I must admit that the Styrians and, above all, the Maribor Law School are a bit stronger, including by a number of experts, the students are taught that they can also be limited in proposals where there is a possibility that there will be a health breach or that a free economic initiative, a business or some enterprise may affect the health and life of people, members; an enterprise that is unlikely to work for some area with its discharges, perhaps with some services, products that may happen to a disease, may be death and are dangerous. It can also most often be an unacceptable moral-ethical aspect of a free economic initiative and it can also be limited here. But when it comes in the field of law, such as Lex Mercator, I believe that such an illegal law is unacceptable in the direction of this law, because it goes in the direction of someone who in insolvency proceedings will somehow keep an eye on right or wrong decisions. What are right or wrong decisions? Comrade Horvat said well today, in multinationals or large companies daily there are payments to hundreds of accounts, to hundreds of accounts, many values, not just products, perhaps a number of services, some contractual activities. A review of all of this is impossible by one member of the Extraordinary Administration who would be assigned by the State in some insolvency procedure; this is the problem we have. Firstly, it is impossible to do this, it can be a loving, fine action before the public, of course there are 10,000 jobs at risk. It is also important to ask about Mercator himself how he came to be, how he lived his life in transition, how he used his monopoly position, years and years to destroy a whole range of small businesses in Slovenia, which could develop his business models, and when Jankovic took over Mercator, he lived in Mercator for a great deal. It is easy, you know, to run a monopoly Mercator in the late 1990s, it is easy to run a Ljubljana municipality where you have 330 million euros in budget and you get all the money from all of Slovenia to Ljubljana, where all the representatives of foreign companies are and so on. If Mercator were then expanding to the west, where he could cope with foreign competition, he would probably have chosen another business model, would have been more competitive, would have sought internal reserves, set up another management, would have sought market niche, and would have had a particularly good impact on the chain of Slovenian subcontractors, especially those suppliers in the field of Slovenian food, Slovenian horticulturalism, Slovenian fertilisation, rather than destroying them with disastrously long payment periods, with, say, super-dumping prices and so on. I mean, Mercator's story, including his strong debt, is strongly linked to the former director, extending to countries where there is low purchasing power. Some companies that were not actually a good brand, sorry, a good brand for a space of two million people, but a good brand in a wider area, perhaps in the countries of the former South, yes; but excuse me, there is an extremely weak, extremely weak purchasing power. The Slovenian food chain with Mercator could not perform in this area. The story of Agrokorje, I may have given a little secret yesterday, I spoke to Mr. Todorić's son last year at a semi-final tournament in Rovinj. Among other things, he mentioned that Balažič would be replaced in a short time. So that was 11 months last May. Do I mind; I said – Look, I am not involved in your business decisions; and we have concluded this conversation with this. Mr Balažič was replaced, just as the owner wanted, by the time the company bought the contract, and this story between Agrokor and Balažič ended. Very simple. The problem is if you have a business philosophy of a company that can, say, grow exponentially, connect all systems in Croatia; and in this area you also owe yourself abnormally at incredible interest rates. You must be aware that in the trade industry, Agrokor's last debt to Sberbank, which went over 6%, is impossible to make up for. These are the interest paid by the people who are on the edge, and also by the companies that are on the edge. Unfortunately, there's also this group on the edge and 6% interest rates on some loans you can't survive. You can't survive. Their philosophy that the heavily indebted Mercator and the heavily indebted Agrokor will give these two minuses some plus, that some synergy effects, as they say most often, have led to what is happening today. We have some information that Mercator's cash flow, which can also be burdened with Agrokor, is not a secret, but the problem is that two of them are heavily indebted to companies and that one heavily indebted company is exploiting another one of its companies, which is a little less heavily indebted, if you say so in a plastic way. What is my appeal, including to the Minister yesterday, today and of course to everyone else, is that such a marriage solution cannot be taken into account. We have institutions in Slovenia for as many options as we can. We have inspection bodies, we have inspections of those external operators who may be able to identify at least a few infringements that would be breaches of Slovenian legislation. The problem is also 20,000 laws and regulations in the history of Slovenia, the problem is that institutions in Slovenia do not work. Today, we are all appalled that we see a new ECHR decision in the case of someone who literally took his house, there is a line of 124 euros in debt to the house. Once again, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will pay this €80,000 compensation. I have pointed out that this is an unacceptable decision, this in the previous term, not in this, and of course we can say that this appeal has never been heard. I'm warning you here, too. I'm alerting you to something that's unacceptable. With all our decisions, we give signals to all the other major companies that would ever come to the ground of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to point out that at the time of the electric mobility that is coming, Tesla, as you know, is looking for a partner in Europe to produce their Tesla 3 model, which is likely to bring electricity into a completely different light and will somehow co-create and implement it in the next ten years. Slovenia could also enter into this story; but, see if we are giving such signals that in Slovenia politics can take into account that, after a rapid procedure, it is possible to adopt a law that will put a political commissioner in operation or at least in action when they get into any kind of trouble, it is a sign that this country is not serious. Don't think seriously about the market economy, the market economy is not being taken seriously at all, and such declarations are harmful and such laws are harmful to all possible things that will come in the future. Then we must always ask ourselves why Slovenia is in foreign investment at a time when we have extremely little equity capital, why we are on the tail of all countries and why all our competition from the former Visegrad Group receives such foreign investment. The latest story is the Mercedes story that comes along with Audio, which has somehow already found a place in Hungary, and look, this is a story. The story, which will ultimately be a sad story, that we may only get one painting in Hotch and that this will end at this level, that even Magna, if this investment succeeds, will not develop until the last phase where we are to get one complete company, the so-called smart factory, even in Slovenia. As an economist, as an engineer, I warn you, a respected minister, a colleague who will support this law, that it is unacceptable. It would be best to turn off the cameras so that this would be a secret meeting and that such statements would never be circulated to the European and global public from the National Assembly. Sometimes populism is good. Sometimes, I believe, politicians, at least some, are prone to populism, if we are to protect 10,000 jobs. Mercator's jobs have been questionable since Mr Jankovic started their business model. At that exact moment. The Mercator of this business model did not develop, spread, became heavily indebted and could not repay this debt. Here is Mercator's problem, and just merging, selling to Agrokor, another Mercator on the ground of the former Balkan countries, when it comes from Croatia, is one display of two such abnormal business models that have merged to find some synergies. These synergies are in the long run that through hybrid warfare Mr Putin is likely to get a complete chain of subcontractors, contractors and to have the largest trading chain in the Balkans. This is part of their strategy and through Sperbank is precisely this strategy now under way. However, what we are doing now is just, we can say, one last shake of a policy that has lost its mind and that will cause even more damage to potential foreign investors who will come to a country with a completely different philosophy, with another knowledge, with higher technologies, with a greater added value, where perhaps Slovenia could learn something, find some other business models and find some other solutions. Until now, I can only appeal to authorities, inspections and all other bodies within ministries that can watch over such companies to make a comprehensive review, perhaps even to criminals involved in economic crime and everyone else, to keep an eye on such a system-wide enterprise. Only they have the scepter in their hands as much as they can have it right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u143	Mrs. Vojka Shergan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! For more than two years, we have actually seen the opposition clear that somehow we do nothing for the economy, that our moves are not right, and even today's debate suggests that somehow you do not agree in the opposition that it is the right direction. That is why I would like to point out that, however, we have stable economic growth at the moment and also the forecasts for the future are favourable. If I point out only a few data to a very promising economic forecast, the International Monetary Fund forecasted a 3% growth after the 1.8% economic growth forecasted last autumn, Ummarje's spring economic forecast predicts an even higher, 3.6% gross domestic product growth, and GDP was 2.6% higher in the fourth quarter of 2016 than in the same quarter of last year. In short, even after Eurostat, unemployment in the Member States has fallen to the lowest level since May 2009, especially good data are for Slovenia, which is lower than the average in the European Union and in Slovenia, so the unemployment rate was 7.8% in February, which is 0.4 percentage points less than a year ago. In the spring economic forecast, however, Umar forecasted 2.2% of employment growth in 2017. In short, this data suggests that this government is doing the right thing to make moves that benefit the economy. Even if we talk to economists, they're kind of satisfied with the current situation, so I don't think this criticism is right. I think in the SMC all the measures we have taken to implement them and that this is confirmed through these results. Today we're talking about Mercator, we're talking about that this was once a success story. This story was built by Slovenian citizens, was a backbone and an important pillar, and is also an important pillar at the moment of the domestic gross product. Today's law is a proactive solution to our government, which we must accept, because for us the decisions of the past governments are also detrimental because they have brought Mercator into a state like today. We are therefore talking about the legal solution of our government, which protects more than 10,000 people who are in a very unpleasant position at this time. In the SMC Group we support this legal solution that protects Slovenian citizens, especially their jobs and suppliers. In fact, this is also important for both the economic, social and financial stability of the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, we can still see that Mercator is operating stable, so far there has been no exhaustion, and it is also important that Mercator is operating stable. In the SMC, we believe that it is crucial to preserve this stability of Mercator and to separate Mercator from the problems of the owner in Croatia and not create new debts. We will continue to work for the people at the Modern Centre Party, so we believe that it is essential that we adopt this legal solution that the Government, with Minister Restoration, has placed on the table and on which we will vote today. We support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u145	Mr. Igor Zorčič has the floor, please. Excuse me, Mrs. Anita Kolesh, you have the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Also a greeting to everyone from the Ministry of Economy, especially to the Minister. About 12 years ago, Slovenia withdrew from the ownership structure of the Mercator business system at the time, and then our company entered a bright capitalist future, which was pressured by the path of capital interest. Regrettably also intertwined with greed, unshakable political balance and charlatan relations in the management of society. However, it is not my intention now to open up chapters of questionable action by some very convincing individuals today, who are giving us more or less a lecture on some extremely harmful policy interference in the functioning of economic operators. That is why it is not my intention, because we have a big problem ahead of us, and we must start to solve it and also – hopefully, in an effective and, of course, legal way – solve it. Mercator is a commercial giant who pays 120 million different taxes each year. Through trade policies, the domestic food industry generates about half a billion revenue. Unfortunately, this proportion of Slovenian products is much smaller than it could have been because Mercator became a springboard for agricultural and other products of Mercator's own country. That Croatian owners came to the shelves of Mercator or shelves in Slovenia, of course there is nothing wrong. But manufacturers and traders themselves would be able to tell you a lot about the reasons why today some of our large suppliers are no longer important or at least not very important suppliers of goods in Mercator. And I'm not talking about market conditions, prices and maybe even quality. But these reasons for the unswerving advocates of private property are not of interest, of course, because the property of the world is all-powerful and God forbid to raise his hand over this sanctuary. That private property is not absolute under the Constitution, we have already heard that it can be restricted by proportionate measures has already been exposed. The justification of proportionality, at least I think it is entirely justified in my view. Under the conditions of the socio-economic system, as we have it, the Law on Economic Companies is also written. And in the light of the provisions of the law and in accordance with the so-called group privilege, the owner of Mercator, Agrokor, Mercator will bring not only to his knees, but also under water. This is clear, and making any special illusions that this will not happen is a big naivety. The Ministry of Economy, led by Minister Restovalski, is aware of this and such rapid action is a reflection of the reality of the problem, as well as of the excellent ability to find appropriate solutions. Or are they true, of course, it will show time, for unfortunately this law too does not provide complete assurance that this will not happen, what would happen if the minister raised his hands if, if, now, this is private property, the state should not interfere with the matter of its path – read: the cancer whistles. The fact that the management of this private property, Agrokor, is now in the hands of the country of Croatia, the opponents of this law obviously do not want to hear or understand. Dear colleagues, on the chessboard, we currently have only the figures of one team. However, already the forecast that Slovenia will actively participate in the game has had a significant impact on the team owner's further moves and has also brought the first positive shifts to the chessboard. So, whether or not the law also had preventive results, which is of paramount importance in this situation of rapid business decisions. Therefore, the law does not impose on an extraordinary member of the administration a very clear or statutory obligation on an extraordinary member of the administration to protect the company against cash and goods flows for the benefit of the insolvency majority owner and, of course, to the detriment of Mercator. If he succeeds, it's another question. But only if we buy a ticket can we see a show. Or as my friend Tonin might say, only if we buy a ticket, we can take the bus. And if we succeed in maintaining this extremely important trading company, I have a personal expectation that Mercator could in some near future emerge from the reach of a poor mother and in a new commitment and relationship with the responsible owner become a consolidated, healthy and successful economic operator. With regard to the amendment of New Slovenia itself, I could say that this amendment would make the law completely ineffective and indeed leave it to God's hands. For all these reasons, I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kolesha. Mr. Igor Zorčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u148	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about Mercator, I cannot help but recall the various brands that we have somehow internalized, which we remember, not only when we step into a newer one or, I will say, not long ago, open trade, perhaps by some North European supplier; but for the brands that we grew up with and that we are actually looking for and offering to our children. Let me remind you of Arget, Chocolate, Radenska, Fructal and so on. I will not now talk about how successful these companies that owned these brands are today, but all these brands are accompanied by a story that has also been tragic in some parts, even for what employees of these companies, and many times today we ask ourselves about what price these brands have been sold. Let us also remember all the peripetions by the very creation of Mercator. I don't take Mercator's creation and his business as my colleague, Breznik. I would say that there was even one example at the time of the creation of the company, how it connects. Of course, from any corporate point of view, we can find a million and one mistake if we want to, but I think there is a turning point in the business of this company that was created when politics started to interfere in it in a specific way. I'm not saying he's not here before, but the fact is, at the end of the day, Mercator is here, where he is, it's owned by a larger company, and it's actually much more in debt, so to speak, on some breathing appliances. With all these stories, we remember a few things. On the one hand, we have these brands on which we can be more or less emotionally attached, and on the other hand, it has always been about some fates of workers in various companies. Although it has repeatedly or repeatedly proved in our history that state ownership of companies is not the best thing to do, that such state-owned companies have often collapsed or failed to bring with them some tragedies, some labour-social tragedies; however, we must at least say with Mercator's case, perhaps with some others, that the sale of these companies is not always optimal, and that this is not an example where we could praise, how great and what it was, because we sold this company to a foreign buyer who, by the way, was still very indebted and for whom everyone had already warned that his purchase of Mercator would be able to result in what we are witnessing today. There is some information that Mercator has employed somewhere, slightly less than 10,000 people, that a number of suppliers are connected to society and are associated with close to 100,000 jobs in the Republic of Slovenia. These are jobs that are not just ownership, I do not know Slovenian capital, they are also foreign capital, but they are companies that are more or less connected to Slovenia and for which it is right for Slovenia to take care in a certain way. Now I will not prejudge what will happen to this law, that would be prophetic. However, if there are certain specific situations in special companies that have such a significant impact on the economy that the state also lays down a legal framework, all in the light of of the public interest, of course, to avoid – I don't know which company, specifically, Mercator – its assets being metals in another way with some, say, transfer prices or similar transactions, being transferred abroad, where some third, fourth, fifth creditors might not be paid in order under our law. The obvious in this sense that we are somehow going against the principle of free economic initiative, I think that this is not the case, that no one can tell us that, in fact, no one can tell us that, with a society as important as Mercator, we have not sat on the couch and watched what is happening to it, but that we are somehow following the active issue and doing our best, according to what we think is right, we are somehow reacting and trying to avoid any negative consequences that could, as I said, have reflected even hundreds of thousands of jobs. The debate seems to me that, given the scope of this company's business, given the number of jobs associated with this society, it cannot be about a free economic initiative, because it seems to me at the moment to be at least perverse, but there must be a debate about whether we will settle down and do nothing or whether we will adopt a law that will, to the best of our ability, prevent the payment of some creditors that we do not even know which of the titles they received the jobs from and what order they have, if you want, because this is very important in the procedures of forced settlement. Thus, I do not have any bad conscience that some want to cause by adopting this law. I will definitely support him, and as I said, the alternative is, I hope that you will not serve your colleagues who oppose this law; that is, just watching and standing by. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u149	Your Honor, I'd like to invite you to the next round of applications. The application shall be made. Mr. Marko Ferruga gets the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Greetings, Minister. I would not lose words about the harmful decisions made in the past with regard to a particular undertaking. I don't think that makes any sense right now. We need to actually turn to what's here and now. Here and now there is one great danger that one large company, which has a huge number of employees and which also has a huge impact on the food processing industry, breaks down. There have been various debates here, it would be incredible or I do not imagine that any government with regard to such a company would not act, would not be active. Some say it's a pier. I wouldn't understand it as well as a pierre, but I would understand it as someone, I'll say, a responsible gesture that shows that we're trying to make some sort of dissuasive gesture with some kind of legislation to all the possible consequences that may or may not have come to light. When we discuss this, we must not forget how we have destroyed the entire woodworking industry with such ease – what my colleague Ranc has already talked about. But I don't understand the other thing. It is incomprehensible to me that when there is such a very important thing for Slovenia, for the Slovenes, for all of us, even for politics, we are not able to stand together and overlook all these contradictions that we have between us and from various political aspects and views, and that we stand together and that as united – as our neighbours of Croats can do very well – we react and do what we feel is right. When we discuss this law, everyone will look for holes, everyone will see that something is wrong, something small, something incomplete, something yes, I agree. [[…]] No marriage has ever been perfect and priceless. I think we need to go here to understand this as one real signal, one gesture that this government has shown, this ministry, that it thinks that it is serious to deal with one such important player as Mercator in our life cycle. The idea presented by Mr Weber, which I absolutely support, is this verification of this anti-corruption clause. I think that this is also one of the elements that can be considered, in which direction these steps will go and continue, which are likely to, and for me, must be done, because such a number of cities and such a company, which has such an impact on the multiplier effect, in fact, on even our Slovenian economy. We need to be aware that at the moment we can be weakened, and that means some kind of chaos and even collapse if you want. I don't think we should play, I think this decisive move is necessary, this law needs to be absolutely confirmed and continued in this direction, and I think that, based on these bad or harmful decisions of the past governments, we can't put any ahead of the fact. That is why – I conclude – I call on everyone, including those who supported the sale of this Slovenian success story, to support a legal solution and thereby show a genuine interest in the protection of Slovenian jobs. However, whether it is a violation of a constitutional matter, whether it is in the public or not in the public interest, or whether it is a breach of a free economic initiative, we must put before ourselves this important undertaking, which carries 10,000 jobs, which multiples on all suppliers, subcontractors, manufacturers, subcontractors, producers and producers and so on. If we have this in front of us, I think it's one of the solutions that has to be and go through, even with doubts, but we actually have to support it most of the time. But each one has his own concerns, which is normal and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u151	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u152	The government coalition claims that this law will save Mercator, even in the media there is some record that this is the law for the salvation of Mercator. If we're talking about facts, very concretely. The answer to the question whether this law we are considering today will reduce Mercator's debt is no. Will this law recover the debts of Agrokor to Mercator? The answer is no. Will this law help to ensure that more Slovenian suppliers are on Mercator's shelves? The answer is no. So, dear coalition, tell us how this law will save Mercator. If you want to have a political commissioner in the company, or as you call him slightly better, a super supervisor, a member of the board – it is not a problem! But you do it in a constitutional way, that's to get the owner's consent. Of course, I do not believe in your thesis that this law will save Mercator, and when we talk about what would be the only effective measure to save Mercator, an effective measure is only one. Of course, there will be a big word by the coalition, how the entire supply chain is in play, how 10,000 employees and similar stories are in play, but forget to tell what the most effective measure is so that we can have full control over what is happening in the company. And that's to buy a company – isn't it? But to buy a company, you have to have money. And this company is still pretty much in debt today. And whoever buys it will first have to invest a lot of money in making him responsible. As we were able to monitor, the alternative idea that emerged was that suppliers should buy it to expand the Slovenian food industry, but unfortunately there was no opposition to convince them here. The suppliers themselves said they were not interested in buying Mercator. I think it's a strong message. And certainly, according to our assessment, this government would have done much more if it had made every formal and informal effort to sell this company to a responsible buyer who was not owed to the door like Agrokor. Mercator's sale to Agrokor was a typical tycoon story, which happened years ago, and we learned nothing when we went to the neck of the indebted companies of some machination. Another thing that is forgotten here is that already after the sale in 2014, some agreement was reached that Mercator dividends should not be used for the exhaustion of the company and for the purposes of Agrokor, that they should not even go there for a special loan. Therefore, the banks should, in some way, take care of what this government officer is supposed to take care of after this agreement. An interesting approach by a colleague or Member of the Möderndorfer. He probably wanted to show a school example to his fellow Members at SMC, how you do it, how you cut, how you hit after the opposition, what you do with some ideological nonsense about liberalism and similar stories, and especially how you attribute something that doesn't even hold – or what someone else has said altogether. Member Weber was talking about sending the Financial Board, not me. But of course I understand the point of Commissioner Möderndorfer. He wanted to divert attention from what we stress in the opposition that this law has a great name and that unfortunately it will not work and let us discuss the real possibilities that Mercator could solve. Well, there's another flower that needs to be added here. Do you know when Mercator was sold? The Commission considers At that time, I was deeply in the opposition, and the party of the MP of Möderndorfer was deeply in the coalition. So much now about how much someone is responsible for something. Of course, if the role of this law, such as the role of a scarecrow in the field — well, if someone fears that one, then at least we may have, or you may have, those who support it — a good feeling that it may have had some effect. But no one wants to answer or dispute with us in the opposition, face the arguments that this law does not respond to the fundamental challenges and problems of Mercator. Of course, the password can be pretty, it sounds good, but this password is empty. But the password is that this law will save Mercator. If you know how to justify this – the hat down, I'd say the football team's selector.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u153	Dr. Ange Logar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you, Chairman. I must say, the logic of this coalition is not well understood. I have listened here by coalition members to how beautiful the picture is in the Slovenian economy, how everything is flourishing, economic growth, new jobs; in short, Slovenia is on a steep path up. If a country is on a steep path, new jobs are likely to open up; if new jobs are opened, those who lose their jobs for these or other reasons can quickly find a new job in another company. Therefore, the issue of unemployment is not a key issue in the growing economy, and it is therefore fundamental in some normal economy to put forward a good government to create new jobs. In fact, just by creating new jobs, adapting better jobs, such as with higher added value, is in fact easier to manage. On the other hand, Mercator's supervisors assure me that this is a good company, that it works well and that the owner does not exhaust it. Then hit the middle of the Mira Cerar coalition with some law in, what, eight articles – ad hoc, one, two, three, in one week! But this session, April, is really special. Hurry up with legislative proposals that are thoughtless, reckless and are intended only for the public. Apparently, the largest government party on the side of the two other coalition partners went to the pre-election match and detected that the Mercator issue was inherent in this election vote. Now you don't have to hide it because you keep stressing it. Earlier, Comrade Prikl of Desus said that this was the only way to protect 10,000 jobs. See, this same Mr. Prikl rejects a marriage solution that would raise the pension of pensioners, those with the lowest pensions, and these are more than 10,000. So what? They are second-rate citizens, some politics there, and some other policy in this case. Or it is a strong leap into the socialist thinking of this government coalition, which is obviously encouraged by activities in another country. I even wonder if you would think of lex Mercator if you did not accept lex Agrokor in Croatia. I wonder. It's like some kind of copy-paste model. Even those lawyers you refer to have difficulty defending this proposal before the public. When Mr Juhart, a lawyer, was in Odessa, it was very difficult to justify this law, but he was looking for some strange, curly explanation to justify it. You have to say he's well paid for it. Miro Cerar set up his job as the non-executive director of DUTB. For 5,000 euros a month, you are likely to forget a little about your legal principles or adapt them to the reading of a marriage. This marriage is completely incomplete, completely incomplete. In Article 2, you speak, or I will go first to Article 4. Article 4 refers to the fact that this political commissioner is to be put on a speedy basis, on a proposal from the Government, the court puts him up, the appeal does not suspend enforcement, and there is no exceptional remedy against the decision to appoint an extraordinary member of the administration. Does that ring a bell? But this does not remind you of the deletion of subordinated bonds where there was no remedy, and now the courts will be overwhelmed by individual actions, as well as collective actions, and the cost of taxpayers will ultimately be over €600 million. Similarly, you work here when banks are placed on the side of the world's corporations by brave Mira, a constitutional lawyer who adopts such a law. This is already evidence that you know that the matter does not essentially hold water or that you would not have passed judgment before the Constitutional Court, but because the proceedings last for so long and so long, you say, it will be how, because they will not decide until the elections. And then you will be brave when you stand up to this capitalist spirit, which is from outside the pressure on Slovenia, and will be brave Mira to say, see, we have adopted this law. In one area where this matter would be determined very quickly, however, you were so clever that you were limited in Article 2, when you wrote that this law was not applicable to credit institutions – that is, those laws governing banking. Why? Because right after the end, the ECB would jump in here and we'd get them right after the noise. It works faster there than, say, in the case of a regular judiciary or, for example, the European Commission. It takes them quite a while to get their hopes up. To gain that time, you simply accept such provisions before the elections, realizing that you are very much on the border or just across. We are part of the European space. [[…]] Imagine now that someone watching from the outside finds this week that the state, the government of the constitutional lawyer, can write down and adopt a law that is contrary to, I don't know, the fundamentals of European law, competition law and so on. What do you think? How much longer will he be willing to invest in this country? Moreover, during the period when the State is forced to sell the largest bank in the country which is also of systemic importance. And it does not hold what Mr Möderndorfer said, what you include the New Ljubljana Bank in this meeting, because the New Ljubljana Bank is owned by the State and Mercator is not. Yeah, yeah, but it's only until 31st. 12. 2017. From 31. 12. 2017 This bank will no longer be state-owned, at least that is how you committed yourself – the government in which it was sitting or in which Mr Möderndorfer was head of the Group. And quickly it will be the next institution to fall into this set. Then you name a political commissioner, because this is supposed to be the biggest, I don't know, assurance that 10,000 jobs will be maintained. Then we look at the staffing of this government: Mr Zunič, the former banker of the Factor Bank in the cabinet of the President of the Government, the former Chairman of the credit committee of the New Ljubljana Bank, where there was a 2 billion euro weakening, and Mr Jazbec, a member of the administration, headed by SDH, followed by a political consensus at the head of the Sava Re, who is suing the country. Mr Saije, the head of the NLB risk at the time the worst loans were made, the boss becomes the head of SDH complication, which is the one who is supposed to talk about SDH compliance. And these references to this government's appointment should convince us that this person, whom you will place in Mercator, will defend the entire integrity of the job and make sure that no contract goes past his eyes, that he will do anything or stop all currents. [[advertising from the hall]] – exhaustion, thank you – the company’s exhaustion to prevent transfer prices, although all the companies operate at transfer prices because they are for this. You're going to do this, and we're going to have to believe that you really know who to put in charge of. Remember, in banks, the state has placed supervisors who have full powers, all of them; not only have they not allowed certain transactions, they have decided everything, all the business – but a 5-billion-dollar hole has been created. And you say that one person who only has the authority to control transfers within a company or a company will save 10,000 jobs. Are you even listening? I mean, you talk nonsense, and you sell them for dry gold. If you want to ensure the existence of 10,000 jobs, make the environment such that new jobs will grow, so that the job will not be difficult to find, so that it will be difficult to find the employer of the one who takes the job. This saves jobs, not by setting up commissioners. And in Article 6, paragraph 7, “excellent member of the administration shall report to the Minister responsible for the economy as soon as he has been briefed by the Supervisory Board”. Yeah, why? And then nothing further worked out what the Minister will do with it. So this political commissioner will come, sit on the chair with the minister, Mr. Restovalski, and say, "Look, Zdenka, this is, this is, this is, this is, this is, this is, this is." What's Zdenka gonna do about it? What's going to happen to this data? Where is the follow-up or where is the development of this idea further? Then where did she put it? Especially because this information is getting public somewhere anyway. Unless it's just so you can say it in public, you see, we've saved 10,000 jobs. Just to conclude, to illustrate how absurd this solution you're preparing here is. I think you have certain conditions in Article 2 under which this political commissioner can be called; therefore, if he has 6,000 employees, he has one billion euros in transport. In the following article, you have a certain time when an individual political commissioner is dismissed, one of the provisions being said when he no longer meets the conditions for an extraordinary member of the administration. Well? If the number of employees from 7,000 decreases to 5,000 999, so if you forgive a thousand and one, then there is no longer any conditions for an extraordinary commissioner or political commissioner. Did you then protect 10,000 jobs? Or if you cut traffic below one billion euros. So if you stop investing in this company, if you start drying it. Did you then reach that goal? So if the owner has someone on one side who makes it impossible for him to do business, then he has only the opportunity to completely reduce this company, he will get rid of the political commissioner. I'm not saying he's going to do this, but that's exactly what this marriage proposal is about, and the absurdity of the procedure you've been taking. Do what you're paid for. Create economic conditions that will enable rapid economic growth and the growth of the economy of medium-sized and small entrepreneurs, and seek ways to debirocratise the country, not to set up policy-makers and sell people dreams that are not at all, but that will deter more people from investing in the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u155	Mrs. Andrej Potočnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. Perhaps I would just like to say that we are talking about the proposal for a law on the conditions of appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know where you get the names of these commissioners. Sometimes I wonder, yes, who, for what pay and why someone works here, but it doesn't really matter. I would like to say that I support this law, but I support this law for several reasons. For the first time, as has been mentioned several times. This system company Mercator employs about 10,000 employees; it is said that this also involves 10,000 Slovenian families, as they like to say in NSI. More than 2 000 suppliers cooperate with this company, from small suppliers, small farmers to the largest, largest suppliers in Slovenia. The Mercator system employs about 22,000 people, and today we focus on Mercator in the Slovenian space. It should be noted that Mercator is the pillar of the entire chain from producers to processors to commercial shelves themselves. Mercator at annual level in Slovenia from Slovenian suppliers purchases around €500 million of goods. 500 million euros. This is more than the total income of many merchants who still exist on the Slovenian market. I think it is a great success, despite the fact that this company still has 70% of Slovenian suppliers' trademarks. It's still a pretty nice number, but it's not a satisfactory number. Mercator has been a strategic partner of food producers in Slovenia for over a decade. Food production is definitely the strategic interest of each country. Mercator signed an agreement with the Association of Slovenia a good year ago on a strategic partnership and this Association of Slovenia bought about 80% of all food produced in Slovenia. It is clear from this data that Mercator is absolutely important in the processing itself, in the supply of food itself and not least as the biggest trader in Slovenia. Surely we can all agree that the spine is also a gross domestic product in Slovenia. I'd like to respond to some claims, now I'm sorry he's not in the magium. Matthew Tonin and Mr. Joseph. Ah, Joseph just got here. You're talking about claiming that the law will be saved by Mercator. I'd love to see this marriage saved by Mercator. Unfortunately, it's not that simple. However, I submit that we would like to avoid exhaustion by means of this law. Master Tonin said that someone would recover debts, who would ensure that more products would be on Mercator's shelves. I don't know. If you have a solution in this area, I'd be happy if you could tell us. I'm asking New Slovenia if we support this amendment, does that mean they're going to support this law? I'd like to ask for that answer. Previously it was said that we support the empire of a Croatian citizen. With the support of this law, I certainly do not support Mr. Todorić's empire, but I want to save Slovenian employees, Slovenian families, Slovenian farmers and suppliers. If it's a sin I'm gonna do today when I back him up tonight, I don't want to know who's gonna forgive him. Every job is important to me. I agree with Dr. Logar's predecessor that there is also a need to provide conditions for more jobs. However, if we want more new jobs, or if this automatically means that we care about existing jobs and that we can say that those 10,000 jobs will already be. I don't care. It is important to preserve jobs and create new ones. It's a vision of the Modern Center Party. And I am pleased that the Prime Minister of the Government has also convened a meeting on this subject, that he has given the mandate to Minister Restovalski, who has also been extremely involved and therefore I congratulate him and thank him and I do not care what is happening in this area. I believe this is the right direction. Of course, we are in Parliament, we can think in different directions, and for this reason, as I have already said, I support the law and will also absolutely support it in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u157	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u158	Dear Members! First of all, I must say that I hear that some of you are persistently violating an extraordinary member of the board. The last Member has also baptized me personally. I hope that was a mistake. This has happened in some other times, and I hope we do not return at this time. And around this marriage again. The concrete measures in the bill are proportionate and the intervention in the bill is necessary because of the exceptional circumstances that occur in connection with insolvency or restructuring on the part of the majority owner of the system company. This is a key issue for which we have taken action to prepare this law. Secondly, we want to prevent the daughter from being exhausted by the insolvent mother. Some of you were talking about the owner's consent to this as a condition. Once again, in a specific case, the management of the Agrokor mother company has been taken over by the neighbouring government with an exceptional mandate. On the part of the government or the law, we have just drawn up a law that is not the same as the Agrokor Act. The Agrokor Act interferes with property rights and the law we have drawn up on the subject of the appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration does not affect property rights. By this law, we want to create in society only the conditions for normal and smooth business. We are not discussing this or the purpose of this law, as many of you have said, is the law that will save this system company. This law allows this company to do business normally, and this law prevents an insolvent mother from exhausting a daughter who is still a functioning company in these emergency situations. But it is of systemic importance to our country. The resources chosen in this Act shall be the appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration and the exclusion of the company’s privileges shall be legally permissible. The exclusion of the company's privileges is important and necessary because in these abnormal situations the insolvency mother or the company that controls our society's systemic importance has no assurance that guidance that goes in normal conditions may be repaid in the long term in the direction of exhaustion, because Mother is insolvent. And to that, we estimate that we have the right. I must point out that the measure we have drawn up is proportionate between the intervention in the right to free economic initiative and the protection of a system society. With this proposed law, I repeat, we intend to protect society of systemic importance from the exhaustion of an insolvent mother. There was also a lot of talk about the ability of an extraordinary member of the board. I must say that this law also clearly states that it has the task of establishing a system of control over the relevant internal controls and reporting on all transactions related to the majority owner. An extraordinary member of the board will not deal with regular business of the company, but will only keep an eye on and care for control between the insolvent mother and the still functioning daughter. To conclude, the purpose of this law is to protect a functioning daughter from an insolvent mother in a way that does not interfere with economic initiative and property rights. I believe that this must be done immediately because of matters that will take place tomorrow. This law does not deal with the history of relations between the two societies — controlled and controlled. Once again, I believe that the measure is appropriate and proportionate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u159	Since there was still interest in the debate, please apply. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Just for a little while. The law does not say that this member of the board will watch business with an insolvent mother. He's gonna watch business with his mother and try to stop the exhaustion. I regret that there are such conditions that, say, the System Bank, the New Ljubljana Bank, does not fall in here. I'm sorry. Why? The first condition is met. 30. Last year, NLB hired 6,000 297 people. Why are the bank's net sales revenues? So, the billmaker kind of, almost deliberately went into a solution that doesn't interfere with the bank. We know that we have and will have problems with the new Ljubljana Bank until we privatise it, so we find the responsible owner. Here I have a problem in understanding this law, and I regret that this is not in it, although NLB could be a business system that should also come into this law, as it had as much as 234 million net revenue in the first half of 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u161	The word has magic. Matthew Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u162	It is interesting how many discussions are going to the New Slovenia Group today by the coalition. In my debates, I took only what the coalition Members said; and the coalition Members said that if you look at the magnetogram of today's debate, this law will be saved by Mercator. I'm just laying down arguments why I don't think that's gonna happen. Those who know the stories in a little more detail, you know that when Marcotor was sold to Agrokor, that a special agreement between banks was signed at the time; those who were owed by Mercator would not be obliged to pay the dividends paid by Mercator or any possible loan by Agrokor. I'm sure this deal between the banks and the buyer was made to get the banks back what they loaned Mercator. If we look at past experiences, we find that the system is so set up that unfortunately it looks much more at the interests of banks than at the interests of people. That's a fact. I'm sure the banks will do anything to get their debts back. My point and only that for what you're proposing, this special officer in Mercator's office, that this must be done by the banks; those that Mercator owes them. That's why my claim is that this is primarily a law with a beautiful name, maybe it makes a good impression, and unfortunately there will be no operational spoils from this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u163	The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u164	Dear President, thank you for your word! What I said in my position to the SDS Group would not be repeated now. However, I am still convinced that this proposed law has too much interference with private property, too much interference with constitutional rights and that it will not be supported on my part. On the other hand, a subsidiary is already defined in the Company Act and I am convinced that it adequately protects society from injury. Not only in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we said, this is a pear issue mainly of the Modern Centre's Parties, but also the comments on the Croatian side are very similar. Lex Mercator is accepting Mira Cerar for his own sake, not for his company. These are comments in Croatian media, including recognized ones, I would say, both political analysts and economic experts. I'm sure the same law you proposed cannot save Mercator. I'm sure that the path, the way you decided to save yourself, is wrong, but you've forgotten the way Mercator might be able to get rid of him. Mercator, as you yourself said, is now controlled by the government of the Republic of Croatia, which has appointed its procurator, the contractor who manages Mercator and Mercator belongs to Agrokor. It is my opinion that it would be the right way for you to meet Mr Ramljak, who is now being set up by the Croatian government to manage Agrokor, to meet with Croatian Minister of Economy, Mrs Dalić, to meet with the Croatian Finance Minister, Mr Maric, who was once a member of the Agrokor administration, and not least to meet our Prime Minister and Prime Minister of Croatia. That would be the first step. The second step I would have taken would have met Mercator's greatest creditors. We know here that there is a treaty until 2020 and that one of the biggest creditors, which has also given credit, is one of the Russian banks. Here I feel that the path could be appropriate and that it could be tried in some way to talk about the redemption of debt, but, God forbid, not with the taxpayer's money. But this is where I think the right path would be. What you have prepared, what has also been torn apart from you by the Legal and Legislative Service, is once again a matter that is the pear of this government's move. And, behold, the well-respected coalition, the ambassadors, and the Members, you cannot be more united today, how many employees you will save; for one Member says that you will be 22 thousand, one Member says that you will save 10,000 jobs. You can't get together here either. I'm more concerned that you're trying to deal with some private property and you're defending it that private property has a public interest, on the other hand, when you have all the leverage and when you're responsible for managing state property and you're not dealing with it. The Minister of Economy is not a reputable minister of this, so further on what I will say, he is more likely to fly to the government in full and to the Minister of Finance. Take a look at the situation in the Slovenian state holding company. Slovenian state holding company is a state of emergency. Yesterday the District Court appointed you a member of the Supervisory Board. District Court! This is an emergency. You're not dealing with NLB sales, you're not dealing with Cimos. But you're dealing with Mercator, who's privately owned, but you're not dealing with what you're responsible for. And then we listen to the debate on the public interest of private property on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and you find that the private company Mercator has an inadequate way of controlling, because there is only one person who cares about internal control. Take a look at the situation in the companies for which you are responsible: the situation in the Slovenian State Holding, the situation in the bad bank and the companies controlled by these two companies. Once again, I'm going to say that the path set by this government is not appropriate. I am sure that the right path would be to talk to people in Croatia who are directly involved, especially creditors holding hands with Mercator. The fact is, the Croatians themselves do not know exactly what will flood their Agrokor system. They don't know exactly what the property structure is today either. According to the last structure, Todorić made, I would say, a rather complex system through companies run by him in the Netherlands, and at least after the last organigram it is evident that Mercator somehow manages even Todorić himself with 30% over one company in the Netherlands. You're really dealing with things that are kind of like. You rated, see, it would be nice, in Slovenia there is a lot of talk, Mercator again Slovenia, you convinced the media to start talking about it, let Mercator buy back again. There are shows, both at the national and at private television stations, but Mercator is not for sale. We are now adopting the law that the Government will appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding yesterday through a re-district court, appointing an extraordinary member of the administration, who, at least after these cases that you wrote down, does not have such leverages. Even on the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee, which had previously discussed this law, it was not clearly stated by the proposers, I would say, in certain cases that have been exposed, whether the matter can be resolved or not. I'm sure you missed here. I cannot personally support this law, but I also have reservations in support of the amendment of New Slovenia. That is, if this amendment of New Slovenia is accepted, then this law is not needed at all, because it has no basis. And, Your Honor, this amendment of New Slovenia is somehow pointing in the same direction as I have directed you. Take a ride to Croatia, sit with Ramljak, sit with Mrs. Daliceva, sit with Mr. Marić, sit with Mr. Plenkovic and, lastly, sit with Mercator's creditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u165	Mr. Jernej Vrtovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u166	Good day to you all. If we listen to the debate, we can quickly see that there are essentially opinions about one basic concept. On the one hand, I will say, New Slovenia – a private initiative that we must protect – and on the other hand the SMC still has a coalition – an irresponsible attitude towards the economy. So, concepts in relation to private property are still being fucked in this country, as it appears. It's hard, you know, to listen to today that private property has a public interest. Now, tell me what your house, which you built yourself, has a public interest. Or does your company, which you created yourself, have a public interest? So whoever owns it, let's make sure that in this country that whoever owns it has the right to manage it, they have every right to do what they do with the company. In this case, it is certainly to a very large extent an intervention in private property. Surely, as has already been said, it is a good cigar. Where better to set up a story in Slovenia than to defend jobs, we have to defend 10,000 of them, 20, 30 000 – let yourself decide how much we will defend them. That's the first thing. Suppliers, farmers, agro-food production, everything nice and good, but on the other hand we have not heard how you will defend 10, 20, 30 thousand jobs in Mercator, or as much as you speak. What does this law solve the problem of jobs? In what? You say the law saves essentially that there will be no exhaustion. So we're talking about illegal acts. The first question is: Has there been any indication that there has been exhaustion, illegal acts so far? Was that the case? Do we speak only and only in mind? If it is illegal acts, conduct, exhaustion of society by the queen, then I ask that, if you know them, these illegal acts should indicate to the law enforcement authorities and today there should be criminal charges against the fact that exhaustion has taken place — that is, if they are clues. But if there are no indictees, then it is only and only the populist flossules, and I believe that tomorrow, when the law is passed, the President of the Government will go out again with a full bag of Mercator out of Mercator and – we have defended this society. Yeah, that's nice. But on the other hand, I know you know that these moves are essentially detrimental to the concept of a free economy, a free market. And hand to heart, private property intervention is so strong in this case that we can talk about a cop, if you don't want to talk about a political commissioner, about a state official in a private company. Easy. Imagine yourself owning a private company and the state sends someone to you. You know, Fidel Castro would be proud to see the European Union, in the countries of the European Union, receiving something like this. Really. Or someone else. Another element that's important. A weak signal to potential investors is that. This kind of legislation. Who would want to invest in the country, private capital, and the equivalent of a billion euros is 6 thousand employees as a condition that someone would then set up an extraordinary member of the administration who would have a record over a certain part of the business? One more question is raised – how will the review of this man’s activities be carried out? How will he be able to manage or carry out his tasks? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u167	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. In the first part of the debate, I drew attention to the fact that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia could react immediately and verify Mercator's money flow to Agrokor. The Director of the Financial Administration can send the financial management inspectors immediately, Mr Minister, at the first debate, I have asked you to call the Director of the Financial Administration and to arrange this immediately. If you're not, I'll call you again. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to another fact on this occasion. I think that the Government, as the Assembly of the Slovenian State Holding, should ask Mrs Lidija Glavin whether Mercator could have been sold even without debts. That the loan remained in Slovenia and Mercator was sold purely to Agrokor. If so, then it should be asked what happened to this loan in all these business banks that were lending Mercator and whether perhaps these banks did not transfer these loans as bad claims to a bad bank. However, if this is the case, then I really suggest that you contact your colleagues or the Government of the Republic of Croatia as soon as you find out, and agree very quickly on the necessity of using the Goleg Island, which Slovenia can urgently need if it proves to be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u169	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u170	Dear Members, honourable President of the National Assembly! Once again, I must say that by this proposed law, we want to first and foremost protect society of systemic importance against the exhaustion of an insolvent mother. That's the basic purpose. Mr. Pogačnik, I appreciate your suggestion. We will or have taken it into account; it is a matter of communication with the authorities of the neighbouring country. However, the fact is that the first successful communication took place only after the adoption of this proposal for a law in the Government that we were previously unsuccessful in this matter, and I believe it will be easier to negotiate and talk once we have a society of systemic importance protected from exhaustion. Now, what have we done? I'm telling you again. You're talking to some people about how the indicators of exhaustion are one and the other. According to the existing company legislation, under company law, the parent company has the right to give even harmful instructions to the daughter who is controlled, assuming that this is due to a harmful instruction in the long term. This law suspends this corporate privilege in the event that the society that controls our systemic importance is insolvent. This is a key issue that we have done in this law, thus giving the conditions for an extraordinary member of the board to be able to monitor such acts. However, the way to a solution to such a company is still a long one, and we have only created the conditions for this company to continue normally. I still think that this measure is proportionate and that we do not interfere with the property of this company, as does the law in the neighbouring country with any excuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u171	Since it's obviously still an interest, I'm asking you to report it. [[advertising from the hall]] Or a replica? But a replica is an advantage. Replica mags. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u172	Dear President, thank you. I'll be very brief. Dear Minister, what you said in private between the controlling society, as discussed in the Act on Economic Companies, is a harmful business, because if I think of it, then the company, for example, must return it by the end of the year or in the current business year. But I'd go back to something else. What you just said. You will now, by this law, what you have said, but you will indeed be encroaching on private rights. Because someone bought it, and they won't be able to do something like what the Company Act says. And that's what you've just said, Mr. Secretary, and here I think the matter is dangerous and that's why it's a warning. Private justice is sacred. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you one more question. If this law is adopted and action is brought, who will be responsible for the compensation?
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u173	Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u174	Look, one more time. It is a suspension of the group privilege only if the parent company is insolvent. This is a matter which we consider to be a relative right to intervene because we have assessed that this society is of systemic importance, and I believe that our measure or the law is constitutional or non-constitutional and does not interfere with private property. I would have intervened in private property if things were clean and there was no reason for intervention. However, the reason for this is the insolvent mother and the giving of harmful instructions to her daughter, we estimate that this can be legally prevented.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u175	Any other interest in the debate? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Danilo Anton Ranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u176	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I also decided to take another look at some of the comments and, given the coalition's position, if we were to go to some pianist propaganda party. I reiterate that, in this case, it is a matter of law and an appropriate response to the risks posed by events in a neighbouring country, in particular with these two companies. Of course, I also have a problem with the fact that it must primarily protect private property, in one way or another, but we must put at the forefront the fact that in this case it is primarily a potential risk of our business being exhausted with many jobs and that, in this regard, it is unnecessary for me to expose ownership – one way or another. This is the purpose of the law, which will enable and equip the Minister of Economy, so that, as a fellow Member says, he can go to interviews with the neighbouring country with those responsible for a particular legal basis and have more opportunities to negotiate and defend positions to protect our economic society. However, I think that we can all be united, and I also understand from this debate that in the past there has been a major error in the sale of Slovenian property, in this case one important article of the food chain, specifically the Mercator, and that such stories must be avoided and supported by the Minister in his efforts and by laws that will allow the protection of these companies, on the other hand, as well as the establishment of some healthy chains, or food processing or other. For the chain means a vertical link from production to sales, and if we fully control it in this way and with such laws that also prevent exhaustion, we have done a great deal and, of course, also armed the minister by not saying a law that will allow him to achieve better effects in the negotiations. However, I would also agree with the debate concerning the Slovenian State Holding, where, of course, things are also called for by changes, that in some way we improve the management of this SDH and also the DUTB, of course, we will also allow the Minister of Economy to act in other similar cases with greater competence in a similar model as the Mercator case did. This is how I fully support the law, and I think it is the right solution to protect the exhaustion of our economic society, specifically the Mercator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u177	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. It is obvious that this year is the season of special laws and special approaches. At the beginning of the year we started with lex Magna, then followed a special approach to Cimos, then last month we had lex second track and this month we have lex Mercator and maybe next month lex Tuš. If this speaks of the government working systematically, systematically, comprehensively, just as it should work, then I don't think we share the same opinion here. It is impossible for a serious approach by the Government to allow such special circumstances that we have now adopted a third or fourth special law this month and have yet to deal in some specific way with Cimos. That's, I must say, unusual. The government and coalition, when we file a law, are clearly, in writing, in the last paragraph, that we are non-systematic, unwholesome, that way and so forth. In short, we now have specific cases where the government is doing this exclusively. That's right! We are not correcting the Law on Economic Companies, we are not correcting any other law, but with some partial details or 100 hectares of land, it means for a square kilometer or for 2% of the rail network, we are enacting a special law. We've done it twice now. By reducing the number of employees from 3,000 to 400 at that square kilometre. The law is still in force and procedures are under way. The forest will cut itself in one way or another, as we see it, and the procedures are proceeding. Here we have again some special law, lex Mercator – this is what everyone is saying – according to these criteria that you wrote in the marriage, only one society comes out. Even if we gave a name, a direct name to this law, just as we would have to give it, not to generalize the title of the law, but to write what it is, it would actually be better. I do not understand why the Government, which has such a good review of the system of the state, which controls and boasts about results, comes with such partial solutions. From 20,000 square kilometers of the territory of Slovenia we have a special law for one square kilometer, lex Magna. Like, I don't know, out of 450,000 employees, we are adopting a special law for 20,000 employees, of which there are 10, 11 thousand in Slovenia. Interesting. I think these approaches are actually wrong. In his debate, Mr Logar also gave excellent attention to a few segments, some problems that may arise, and probably if this procedure with Mom runs like this, this will also happen, because Mercator can come into the recovery process in one way or another, not only because of Agrokor, but also because of his business. Even for his business. And by the way, it can happen that this law will not be directed at anything. It has been said that this person, who is to be appointed to the board of directors or to the board of directors or to a member of the board in companies of special importance, is said in Mercator to have a special task to decide with the right of veto what is a harmful business for Mercator in cooperation with Agrokor and what is not. Mr Minister, you were also the director of an economic society, you know exactly that such things can be packed in a completely different way. This can only be followed if direct decisions are taken. It can, however, be chained in which one who is only in charge of cooperation with the mother of Agrokor will not be able to track it or control it. It can go through some transaction, some chain deal over four, five companies that may not even be in the system, but it can happen and it will be capital, money, decision can land with Agrokor – where it shouldn't. Such a person, who will be appointed as a member of an administration in such a company, cannot control him, especially since he will be excluded from most other arrangements. So, if she's only in charge of the direct link between Mercator and Agrokor, then the rest of the chain transactions will go by and she won't even find out, there's no objective way to find out. Well, the purpose will certainly be flawed in this case. If there are indications, if there are suspicions that unfair business practices are taking place, beyond what is laid down in the Company Act, then the authorities we have in this country should act. We have such a Financial Office that could intervene and supervise, we have a Money Laundering Office, where they track every transaction over EUR 5,000. While the Office does not report to the National Assembly, we do not know what the reasons for not doing so are, but these matters are being collected there, and I think it would be right that these institutions should sometimes report on these transactions, which are marked as suspicions of corruption, suspicion of bad and illegal practices or money laundering. In those cases, if it were possible, for example, to harm Mercator, it could also be money laundering in some way. If we do not have a control mechanism in this country, no institution controlling such operations or if we do have one that does not respond, then all the alarms in this country should actually ring. I hope that the Government, which has some leverage, can do something in this area. I think that what you are proposing by this law is a non-systemic approach, but in my humble opinion and behaviour, however, it goes beyond allowability to intervene in a private initiative. In particular, since none of the provisions of the Company Act, which is still in some way still a bill of law, is suspended by this law. Not a single provision. Earlier, Pogačnik told us what the cases were and how certain things can be done temporarily. I don't think the way you wrote it down here can be affected. That the law they have proposed is bad is also evident from the report of the Committee. Eight members have your law. And apart from the fact that the law enters into force the following day, they are all corrected, and this is substantially, substantively corrected. Despite these corrections, however, if we now requested the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, there would nevertheless be a number of concerns and comments on constitutionality, on systemicity, on the way in which the approach is taken, on excessive interference with private property and so on. Obviously, it will be a law that is intended only for the Government to act as a protector of the Slovenian economy, as an imaginary protector, and in reality these provisions of the law will not be implemented in practice. They will have no suspension options or provisions nor any concrete action. In short, it is nice if the Government with special laws is unable to bring together systemically, it tries to face the Slovenian public as a fighter for “greenfield investments”, as a fighter for the elimination of the key traffic jam on Slovenian railways, as a fighter for the protection of the so-called public interest and so on. But each of these special laws will have its major financial implications, both the ones I mentioned earlier and the approach that will go for Cimos and that arrangement with Croatia will cost something, and it will not be without consequences. If such an authority, which the Government will give to the administration, causes, say, certain business damage, only the question of who will pay the compensation. It will be a state budget again, as in some other court cases, when the culprit is not, when everything is covered, and by a political decision, when some things are carried out, and in the end, an independent institution outside the borders of Slovenia considers that it is an unreasonable procedure, an unreasonable procedure, an excessive burden, a non-systemic solution or for interference with human rights and the protection of private property. The only question is whether this will happen in this case and if not in our own institution, it has proved that there has been an excessive interference with who will cover the damage. Because in this case, it will not be a few thousand euros if this happens, but a few tens or several hundred million euros in compensation. I do not think there is any need for this non-systemic approach and any such behaviour to be made free of any new recapitalisation that we will have to pay in one way or another in the event that compensation is claimed in such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u179	I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Mr Zdravko Restoršek, Minister for Economic Development and Technology, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u180	Dear Members and Members! Due to the exceptional circumstances on the part of the majority owner, there was a need for a rapid reaction. This law does not solve society of systemic importance, but allows it to continue its normal business. Once again, I reiterate that this law excludes the company privilege, namely, two articles exclude the rules relating to the contract company, namely paragraphs 541 and 545 in the actual company chapter. We want to protect society from being exhausted. The law does not deal with things that were behind us and thus create the conditions that tomorrow we may have the opportunity to discuss topics that you have already opened today, what and how it will continue with this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u181	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby end this agenda item, as well as the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6 p.m. and 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u182	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. Before proceeding to the voting procedure, I would like to inform you that the State Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 6, 7, 11, 4, 2, 12, 15, 16, 8, 9, 10 and 1 item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, following a reduced procedure We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 24. 4. 2017. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Joint Left Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 21 votes in favour and 49 votes in favour. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Balance of Public Finances in the framework of the regular procedure We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a bill amending the Public Finance Balance Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present, 65 votes against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[There were six votes against.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There were 72 Members and Members present, 48 votes against, 16 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[There were 16 votes against.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Prevention and Limitation of Competition in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of item 2a of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on the conditions of appointment of an extraordinary member of the administration on companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Slovenia by emergency procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled of 25. 4. 2017, which you received on e-klop. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present, 7 and 51 of them opposed. [[The vote is seven.]] [[There were 51 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendment and to the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body made the proposal of the law inconsistent. We're voting. There were 73 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, 20 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[20 votes against.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Banking Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party mag. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u183	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal to supplement the Banking Act. As proponents, we are convinced that change is necessary. We are aware of the importance and public interest of taxpayer money. More than €5 billion has been invested in the last resolution of the banking system, the question whether this number is also definitive. We are convinced that by amending the law and supplementing the Banking Act, we would also allow the Commission on Abuses in the Banking System in Slovenia to work more quickly and efficiently. In the event that the coalition explains that private society has a public interest, we are democratically convinced in Slovenia that it is a public interest when it comes to more than €5 billion in tax money. In view of the fact that this is the first reading of the law, we are confident that this law can be supplemented, that it will be improved, and that we will support the matter in this first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u184	We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 31 Members voting against 37. [[31 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the international road transport of passengers and goods. The proposal was tabled by the Government. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 71 Members voted against 3. [[71 members voted in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its member states on the one side and the Republic of Kazakhstan on the other. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 70 Members voted against. [[72 members voted in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the draft Law on apprenticeships in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Friday, 21. 4. 2017, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment tabled that you have received. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SMC, Desus and SD groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr Saša Tabakovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u185	Your Honor, the President, thank you for your word. At the end of March, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia annulled the U.S.R. in a work defining the service of the termination of the post office employment contract. The provision of this law does not ensure that the worker is effectively aware of his dismissal, which could also constitute a violation of his right to judicial protection. Since Article 28 of the Law on apprenticeship refers to this Article 88 of the U.S., we have, of course, amended it in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u186	Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 28. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 16. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Justice under the ordinary procedure. The National Assembly is on Friday, 21. 4. 2017, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 23. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on State Bar in the framework of the regular procedure The National Assembly is on Friday, 21. 4. 2017, carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, as a proposal for a bill, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly in the second reading of the draft law would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 19. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. Review of the proposals for proposals by Members and Members for a discussion on the replies of the President of the Government, Ministers, Ministers and Secretary-General of the Government of 25. 4. 2017 is published on the e-club. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Alenke Bratušek will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Alenka Bratušek regarding the validity of crisis measures. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 45. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Branka Grims will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of mags. Branca Grims related to the Government's actions regarding the expected increase in migration flows. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 49. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Miha Kordiš, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Dr Mir Cerar, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the issue of enhanced control and delay at the border with Croatia and the related actions of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would certainly like to discuss in the National Assembly the response of the President of the Government or, rather, his half-talk. Why half-talk? The President of the Government did not want to answer why the documents relating to the construction of the wire fence were secret and rejected any inquiry into the pigs involved, as reported by Dnevnik. This is only part of the reason for our question. The second part of the reason is the Regulation of the European Union, which causes delays at the Slovenian southern border. As is evident from Mira Cerar's response, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not even blink at this regulation, as it is said to be very important for ensuring the security and security of Slovenia as a whole of the European Union. Of course, the Government has decided, in practice, to overrun this regulation when the colonies at the border have been extended long enough to threaten our Prime Minister's initial image, and this duality is a cause for concern. In short, these two reasons why documents for the construction of the wire at the border are secret, who earned it, who took advantage of how these non-transparent procedures were carried out, and the measures or omissions of the President of the Government against the European regulation which triggered the columns on the Slovenian southern border are why the Socialists want to open the debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u188	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Ljub Žnidar, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On Mr Ljub Žnidar's question on the external trade deficit in agriculture. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u189	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The Honourable Minister of Mags. In fact, I asked what measures the Ministry of Agriculture would take in relation to the external trade deficit, which is about a billion euros per year in agriculture. We know that the economic situation of the country is very important to the financial balance sheet it considers to be an external trade exchange. In the area of agriculture alone, one billion is missing annually in the Republic of Slovenia. In short, money flows out of the country, the Ministry is not preparing measures to reduce this financial situation or this loss of financial resources brought about by agricultural imports annually; there is no short-term action. I believe that the public debate would be welcome in order to gather the ideas, proposals and measures that the ministry is supposed to take to reduce this external trade deficit. For this reason, of course, I ask my fellow Members to carry out this public hearing and thus improve the situation on the external trade balance in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u190	We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 48. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Ljub Žnidar, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Dr Petr Gasperšič, to the question of Mr Ljub Žnidar, on the Road Traffic Act. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Chairman. In October of last year, the Motor Vehicle Act, which requires the so-called twenty-five, is a moped that reaches a maximum speed of 25 kilometres per hour, that these engines must be registered and that these engines also carry out a technical inspection. This law shall enter into force on 1 May of this year, that is to say in a few days. There are cases of significant difficulties in proving ownership of older engines, seniors and technical inspections of these bicycles by auxiliary engines. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we tabled a new proposal Monday to supplement these administrative unnecessary tasks, this is a registration and technical review for these bicycles with an auxiliary engine, which in practice drives on average about 15 kilometres per hour to eliminate it. To help the ministry and, of course, to all of us who have tabled this law, I propose a public debate to gather also proposals that will prove that this proposal, which is now in force and which is now in force last year, would say that the coalition has easily confirmed that I say this administratively unnecessary task for all these owners who have these bicycles with an auxiliary engine. I propose that a public debate be held on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u192	We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Jožef Horvat, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Boris Koprivnik, to Mr Jožef Horvat's question on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Community Financing. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's proposal, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Dr Anje Kopač Mrak to Mrs Anja Bah Žibert's question on action by social work centres in cases of domestic violence. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Anžet Logar, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Anton Peršak, to the question by Dr Anžet Logar, on the autonomy of the Slovenian Public Institute of Philharmonic. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Daniel Krivac, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Environment and Space Irena Majcen to the question of the delegation of Daniel Krivec concerning the appointment of the Director of Triglav National Park. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Iva Dimic, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On Mrs Ive Dimic's question on the issue of the recovery of the work of subsidies for vegetables. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 47. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mags. Mr Lilliana Kozlovich asked Dr. Vinko Gorenak about the use of the Falcon 2000 EX on 28. 1. 2017. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u193	E-X, not the E-X, but anyway. The issue of the use of a government aircraft on 28 January this year has, in fact, been my concern for three months. First, in February, I asked for documents on the basis of which Dr Cerar's team traveled to Paris and back to the state expenses. From then on, I have raised a series of questions and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in fact avoiding the real and the right answer. Nevertheless, I was able to obtain a lot of public information, and today I can very clearly say the following: Dr Cerar's delegation went on a trip to Paris for state expenses. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims that this is an official visit and so on, the decision was taken in 2016, on 28 July. In 2016, they could not have known that the handball competition would take place on 28 January 2017. In addition, it was said that it was an invitation to the Handball Association. It's a miracle this invitation went away, it's gone. Besides, I have no problem with the fact that the High Representative of the State is going to encourage our teams when they win, as was the case in this case, but there is a difference. For example, when it comes to doing this to the president of the state, he then protects those bathing suits for football players, and Mr. Cerar did – what? He went there, sat on the stands, took a couple of those pictures, encouraged ours, actually showed the photographer such a pose, and didn't even reach into the hand of the handball player; he didn't do it either. He didn't even do it! In accordance with Article 21 of the Government Act, a special decision of the Government is required for each such journey, in the case of official travel abroad. This government, like all previous ones, takes such conclusions when any minister goes abroad, tells you who you will go to, who will be in the delegation, what will be done there, and how he will go. I remember the government 2004-2008, as well as those 2012, when we normally discussed the composition of delegations, and very rarely more than three. Well, that's where the whole falcon went. But miraculously they disappeared, or there is nowhere else in the document about it, the government's decision was not taken. At the same time, for example, your colleague Mr. Han traveled – where he was – to Moscow, and they told him, pay for the ticket. I propose a debate on this subject, because the matter is ripe not only for this debate, but probably for the prosecution, which will still have to be decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u194	Is there any other explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Mr Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u195	I will vote in favour of the proposal to hold this debate. I've been monitoring, we can say, these questions are from Dr. Gorenak's colleague. First, as you know, they didn't have a list this year, they didn't even have a list of those on this plane. After we received about this list, we followed up with the same answer that it is the basis for this journey in a decision that the Government should have prepared a few months ago. So, according to this logic, I would like this public debate, which the Slovenian public, especially taxpayers, will find out most likely from Dr Cerar to predict the future. He announced the future when our handball players will play, and most likely based on this future they also predicted the future of Slovenia in 2050. That is how I think we should support such a proposal as proposed by Dr Gorenak, because Mr Cerar is likely to have some supernatural ability. For this reason, I support the proposal and I believe that there will be some public debate on this subject and that we will come to the final epilogue of this story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u196	We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present and 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Ludmila Novak's proposal, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Ms Milojka Kolar Celarc to Mrs Ljudmila Novak's question on the merger of hospitals. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 22 votes in favour and 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mr Miha Kordiš, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Maja Makovec Brenčič, to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš, on the amendment of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which increases the financing of primary education in private schools. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group Joint Left Miha Kordiš.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have the largest coalition party to step up constitutional changes to the delimitation of public and private education. And then we have their minister and their government, who stubbornly insists on raising funds for private schools. Clearly, any price that comes from a public education bag in private schools is at the expense of public education. This is totally unacceptable, this needs to be stopped, including by a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-04-25-SDZ7-Redna-29.ana.u198	We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 7 Members voted against 60. [[Seven members voted in favour.]] [[Against 60.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Violeta Tomić, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On the question of Violeta Tomić on how to raise self-sustainment after the sale of key companies within food chains. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 10 Members voted against 48. [[Ten members voted in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
