ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 35th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Primož Hainz from 12 to 15 hours, mag. Matthew Tonin, mag. Alexander Kavčič, Janja Sluga, Dr. Lászlá Goncz, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar from 16:00 on, Simon Zajc from 12 till 17:00, Ivan Škodnik, Dušan Radic until 15:00, Vlasta Wait until 14:00, Dr. Mitja Horvat, Vesna Vervega, Danilo Anton Ranc to 10 a.m., Dr. Milan Brglez from 12.30 to 2.30 p.m. and from 17.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m., Jernej Vrtovac from 20 p.m. and Mrs. Iva Dimic from 12 till 15 p.m. I warmly welcome all those present! We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on drivers by emergency procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is held at its 68th emergency meeting, on 7. 11. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 106th session of 3. Ten. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. The amendment of SMC, Desus and SD to Article 2 was tabled in the course of the course of business. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure shall be Mag. Klemen Potisek explained that the purpose of the bill is to determine that the costs of driving examinations paid by candidates for driving examination in administrative units are to be allocated to the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety. In this way, the Agency shall be provided with the necessary resources to carry out the statutory tasks and develop the driving examinations profession. This is a proposal for a law that is urgently needed for the implementation of the State budget proposal and also takes full account of the legislative and legal service's proposal to actually use the funds for its purpose. The Agency’s dedicated revenue is also defined in the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained that the warning given in writing to this service was duly taken into account by the amendment tabled by the coalition groups, in order to remove the matter. The President of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development stressed that the Commission supports the proposal for a law, since it considers that the Agency should reimburse the costs incurred in carrying out its driving examinations in full and terminate the current practice when the Agency has replaced the missing funds with funds for the implementation of preventive activities. In particular, questions were raised by Members regarding the Agency's funding method so far and in the future, to which both the State Secretary and the representative of Robert Grill explained. Among others, the question was raised as to what is the Agency’s annual budget, how much money has it received from the budget so far and how much has it created through its own activity. It was replied that in the past year, all of the Agency's revenues amounted to approximately €4.5 million, of which €3.5 million was provided from the State budget, which means that the Agency's own activities generated a weak million euros in revenue. With regard to the expected amount of resources to be collected on the basis of the cost of driving examinations paid by the candidates for the driving licence at the time of application for the theoretical or practical part of the driving licence at the annual level and to the Agency's future intended income, it was explained that almost EUR 1.9 million had been raised from this address in the administrative units last year. Consequently, this amount represents the indicative amount of the resources to be allocated directly or intentionally to the Agency in accordance with the proposal for a law from now on. With regard to the question of whether an increase in the price of driving examinations could be expected as a result of the proposed amendment, it was answered that the proposed amendment did not prejudge the increase. The fact is, however, that the price of driving examinations has not changed since 2004. As regards the price of carrying out the driving test, the proposal for a certain increase is currently in inter-departmental coordination, but the value has not yet been definitively established. After discussion, the Committee adopted an amendment to Article 2 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. He also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u3	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. I now wonder whether it is the third day of the 35th regular meeting of the National Assembly or whether it is some kind of “flouder”. I cannot follow the meeting, because, in most cases, I will say a bad fifth of the Members of the Group and the parties whose Vice-President, Comrade Milan, are on a lot of chat. I request, I do not propose, based on the rules of procedure, that you conduct the meeting in accordance with the rules of procedure, or that we suspend the meeting by 10 a.m. because you obviously need some further coordination in your client to continue the meeting. As a Member, I have the right to hold a meeting and to accompany it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u5	First of all, I'm going to say the answer to what happened. I've called you twice to calm down. I appreciate that this chatter is coming from everywhere, and I would not point it at just one group of Members. Gradually, Joseph Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u6	Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much for this opportunity. I am pleased that this moment has been joined by the Minister, because I was just about to suggest that we stop the meeting, because we are probably worth presenting the law to us by the Government that is proposing the law. The script is very clear and is also known by the Slovenian public. My procedural proposal was right, because of the Slovenian public, that it is probably so valuable that it listens to the Government what the Government wants with this law. You, Mr President, should be so fair that, according to the scenario, you explain why you first gave your word to the chairman of the committee responsible. You should say you'll do it and the government is on its way. This, of course, is within your purview. Secondly, I expect that the meeting will be more properly conducted. Welcome, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u7	That's all I'm going to talk about. The meeting shall be conducted in full accordance with the rules of procedure. If anyone's gone, skip and let's go first. All business conditions for this are met. Now, peace! No more procedural and we're moving on. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Bojan Krajnc.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, hello, all of you! The current Drivers Act in Article 9 provides that the Public Transport Safety Agency shall, on the basis of its public authority, ensure the conduct of driving examinations. However, Article 77 provides that the cost of the driving licence shall be paid by the applicant for the driver in the administrative unit upon notification of the driving licence. These costs paid by the candidates are, under the applicable rules, the full inflow of the integral budget and are so-called State revenue, meaning that the payments from this title are collected at the public agency and are not shown in the country's budget. However, the resources obtained by the public agency from the integrated budget do not cover all the actual costs of ensuring the performance of driving examinations, including the salaries of assessors, material costs, real estate costs, maintenance and completion of test tasks, investment in examination centres, etc. Therefore, the public agency has so far had to cover the difference from the funds allocated to the prevention programmes. The proposed amendment to the Drivers Act is intended to provide the public agency with all the necessary means to ensure that the driver’s examination costs are paid by the candidates for the driving licence on an administrative basis. This is to ensure the management of driving examinations. Therefore, the cost of driving exams after a new one is shown as the revenue of the State budget and is placed in the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, which will be considered at the 20th item of the agenda as a dedicated revenue for the financing of the public agency. The proposed solution is more accurate and in line with the principles of public funding. The applicable provision of the fifth paragraph of Article 11 of the Drivers Act, which deals with the financing of a public agency, provides that a public agency shall issue a tariff for its services to individuals and legal persons in accordance with the law governing public agencies to determine the level of payment for its services. As far as the tariff is concerned, we expect that in the future the entire cost of conducting the driving test, including training, first aid, medical examination, will not increase by more than 1.5% until the issue of the driving licence, as stated in its written opinion by the Commission of the State Council. We also expect that the novel will improve the preventive programmes of the public agency, which will affect the improvement of traffic safety on our roads. In the SMC Group, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u9	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u10	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Drivers Act provides that the costs of driving examinations paid by candidates for driving examinations in administrative units when applying for a theoretical and practical part of the driving licence shall be assigned to the Public Transport Safety Agency in the Republic of Slovenia. The Secretary of State has presented certain data to the Infrastructure Committee and it has been possible to understand from these explanations that this dedicated allocation is actually intended for two purposes. The first objective is to cover the manoeuvring of a public agency of between 700 000 and 900 000 euros. Notwithstanding the fact that it is envisaged to encourage examinations for the conduct of the first driving examination, both theoretical and practical, additional appropriations shall be allocated to the public agency. Not just the part that does the driving test work, but the whole agency. The entire agency, according to the Secretary of State, is only about 300,000 earmarked for road safety prevention. He later corrected his statement that there were between €300,000 and €500,000. From this we can understand that the share of the Agency's total revenue allocated to road safety is relatively small, I would say very small. From this we can see that most of the funds allocated to the Agency's own functioning are. Such an approach, there is a strong incentive to carry out driving examinations and to allocate funds to the Agency in particular for its own operation in the Slovenian Democratic Party, will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u11	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone! The proposal for a amendment to the Drivers Act confers on the Public Transport Safety Agency the costs of driving examinations paid by candidates for driving examinations on administrative units. The current law now provides that the inflows from the cost of driving examination are entirely due to the integral budget and that the agency receives only part of the funds from this, which is not sufficient to cover all the actual costs of ensuring the performance of driving examinations. In the Desus Group we do not have any problems with this principle, so we are and will also support the bill today. However, we wonder what this means for traffic safety. Of course, we strongly hope that it will improve, because, as it was understood, in the past, it has happened regularly that the money earmarked for preventive safety has been diverted by the Agency to cover the cost gap for the conduct of examinations, which is unacceptable. We wonder why he was taking money out of prevention if we know that traffic safety on our roads is far from the goals we set ourselves in our country. Another thing we can be concerned about is the increase in driver’s test prices. It is true that this specific novelty is without prejudice to the tariff itself, but we were informed on the Committee that in inter-departmental coordination there is a proposal for an increase in the cost of conducting a driving test which is expected to be highly encouraging. The performance of the driving test must not become a property privilege. As we say, in our Group of Members, we will support the amendment mainly for the reason that we do not want the money to continue to be taken away for the implementation of preventive road safety. Therefore, we also hope that this appropriation will not justify a reduction in the share of the budget already allocated to the work of the Public Agency for Transport Safety, which currently allocates only 10 % of its revenues for road traffic prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u13	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u14	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Drivers Act proposed by the Government. The applicant states that the law pursues the basic objective of allocating funds to the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport Safety. The costs of driving examinations paid by candidates for driving examination in administrative units at the time of application for a theoretical and practical part of the driving licence shall therefore be dedicated to the Public Transport Safety Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. For the time being, the existing legislation fully belongs to the integrated budget. The proposed amendment to the law therefore provides that the cost of driving examination is to be shown as the revenue of the State budget, which is deliberately spent on financing one of the basic tasks of the Public Transport Safety Agency, namely to ensure the conduct of driving examinations. In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, the draft law does not sufficiently specify the purpose of the use of the funds, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service. According to the Secretary of State, the Agency's budget in the past year amounted to €4.5 million, of which €3.5 million was generated from the state budget, and the rest was created by the Agency itself. As is known, the amount of the theoretical work is slightly less than €14 and a good EUR 15 is a practical part of the driving test B category. The Committee stressed that these are rather undervalued prices, so in the New Slovenia Group we rightly fear that this amount will increase significantly in the future. The average amount of driving examination B of category B already amounts to the net average monthly salary in Slovenia, which in a household with minimum income represents or is too much of a cost. One of the activities carried out by the Agency is also the prevention programmes. So far, funds from preventive activities have been earmarked to cover the costs of the Agency's operation. In the New Slovenia Group, we are therefore wondering whether the Agency will continue to carry out preventive activities to the extent that it has so far. When dealing with this subject, let us once again point out the centralisation issue in the conduct of the driving test. Performing a driving test in some places is virtually impossible. To this end, amendments to the rules on examination centres for the driver of motor vehicles were also made. For example, for an illustration, I can say that in practice, due to all existing regulations, the citizens of Boveca, Kobarid and Tolmin have to drive to Nova Gorica to perform the driving test. That takes hours and hours of extra driving. Why do we burden our people with such burdens and costs? At the same time, different treatment will be given to places with equally developed road infrastructure. The examination is possible in some places and in others it is not possible. What is the difference in infrastructure, for example, between Tolmina and Kočev, that different treatment is necessary? On this occasion, it is necessary to amend the Regulations on examination centres for drivers of motor vehicles to ensure equal treatment of all Slovene municipalities. The amendment to the law, which provides that revenue becomes the agency's means of purpose in carrying out driving examinations, raises concern. There is a high likelihood that this new agency would encourage candidates to take the driving test as many times as possible and that the prices of these services would be as high as possible. That would make the Agency's profits more. We can rightly fear that this change is actually just a matter of introducing a new driver's test tax. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Drivers Act according to the New Slovenia Group is not sufficiently defined or there are still some unanswered questions, so we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u15	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, chairman. A nice greeting for everyone, especially for young people on the balcony! Beyond this populism that some of you are pursuing at this point, I will repeat on behalf of the Left what I have already said on the committee. We have major problems with transport non-culture. We have major problems with transport non-culture because there are too many people in the National Assembly who are obsessed with “feltna” that I have a bigger car than a neighbor than with serious politics. With regard to driving exams, I'm going to repeat what I said on behalf of the Left on the board. Young people, except those with a health problem, should take a driving test in the last decade of the high school process and enable them to do so. Because of me from the budget. Pika. At the same time, they should also be taught to type blindly because we are in the 21st century, the digital century of technology. In particular, this amendment is going in the direction of making something intentional. Certain budgetary matters must be such, certain matters in the budget of course we are moving. In the debate we had on the working body, it turned out that the Agency is not actually carrying out its basic mission. Since the Agency has only 12 preventive measures. You know, in organization theory, and now you'll always be on the right with your anti-intellectualism and in the middle too, there's a very simple and well-known rule of two thirds. What does that mean? When you give money in a system, according to the budget of this system more than two-thirds for employees' salaries, for some basic depreciation and expenses, you, as it is called in Maribor, are finished. It's over. This system has no thinking whatsoever. This system has no development. Don't laugh at me now, fellas. The responsibility of policy is to create functioning systems. In Slovenia we have a whole range of subsystems, which are their own purpose. From Sova, through regional development agencies, through Triglav National Park, I don't know what. Then, in your previous mandates, you've taken a shit. Then there's the generation gap, and then we've come to the point that the pension is a little bit more than 50% of the salary, and no gentleman who should be retired wants to retire, including some rector of the University of Maribor and elsewhere, and we have a situation that we have. We have a defective whole range of subsystems. And this agency is not carrying out its basic mission. Will we provide this agency with 9.7 billion money to carry out its basic mission? You're younger in mathematics, and this reference I'm talking about one million that we're going to find every year, either this agency or we're going to close it down or we're going to change its name. Let's stop fooling around! We're not here to replace Big Brother shows. We have a different, much more responsible function. That referendum on the second track created by the SDS and SMC, by making use of Mr Vila Kovacic, is exactly the amount of money that would cover the preventive part of the Agency's operation in one term.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u17	Please move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u18	Because of this irresponsible, unthinking part of the National Assembly and the coalition of such amendments, we cannot support me. Anyone will be in the next call of the National Assembly, as well as young people, who may ever be a politician or operate in some very important systems, to remember this rule of two-thirds. It seems to me that it is high time we had a serious discussion in this society and country about why we are establishing something. Not because someone from the right quota, I in heaven, will come to work, but because of one, as is said in my mother's language, which is Croatian, of purpose. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u19	I should've warned you about something here. The views of the parliamentary group are on this law and not on all other matters. In fact, some Members felt a little offended by this. I would like to ask that this is actually taken into account and that this proposal, which is, but not all others, is actually being discussed and is indirectly associated with everything else. I don't usually intervene, I never intervene in the middle of anything that's really bad. However, I would like to ask that further, when these views of the parliamentary groups are that way. Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Look, Milan, we're still sorry. [[…]] Mr President of the National Assembly, you and I are still a professor of higher education. It turns out we also have some professional deontology. Mr. Miro Cerar, who is also a professor, would say ethics and morality. My task as a Member is also to say what I think I must say when I present the views of the Left, as set out in Article 82 of the Constitution. In this I come from the way France Bučar worked, unfortunately the only example in the Slovenian politics I have. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u21	Otherwise, it wasn't procedural. He objected to what I said. But whatever their views are, they can be said respectfully. Here I think there's a minimum that needs to be told in the National Assembly. Anything can be said with respect. Even very unpleasant views can be expressed in this way. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Thursday, 16th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2017, in the context of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 35th agenda or at 9 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, that is to say the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conditions of Concession for the Exploitation of the Energy Potential of the Lower Union, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and the premises of Mrs Lidija Stebernak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, the other honourable ones present! The Act on the conditions of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava is a law which lays down the conditions for the implementation of the concession for the exploitation of water energy potential in the zone of the lower Sava from Suhadol to the state border with the Republic of Croatia and the conditions to be met by the concessionaire in the planning and construction of concession facilities. The law regulates the water concession for the production of electricity in the hydroelectric power plants Vrhovo, Boštanj, Blanca, Krk, Brežice and Mokrice by exploiting the water potential of Lower Sava. The amendment of the law currently under consideration in the National Assembly ensures, in particular, the sustainable use of natural resources and implements the principles of sustainable use of natural resources, which are renewable sources of energy and consequently lead to a competitive price of electricity. Unreliable financing for further construction or lack of funding would result in significant material damage and consequently a higher price of electricity, and the purpose of the law is in particular to provide funding sources and to extend the deadlines for the construction of the last Mokrice hydropower plant. The novelty's solutions thus lead mainly to solutions relating to the extension of the deadlines for the construction of the Mokrica hydropower plant, the acquisition of a usable permit and the provision of funding resources. The Mokrica hydroelectric power plant must be built by 2022 at the latest as proposed and the usable permit should be obtained by the end of 2023. The funding sources are set out in the proposal in order to define the method of obtaining funds from the Climate Change Fund for a further period which relates solely to the condition that in no financial year the appropriations allocated do not exceed 50 % of the inflows of emission allowances under the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system in the Community, which fall within the provisions of the Directive of the national budget of Slovenia, and any missing funds are provided from the water fund. In addition to the above main solutions, the law also provides solutions for the appropriate insurance of accumulation pools after their acquisition by the concessionaire. After the acquisition, the accumulation pools are in the actual management of the concessionaire and are mainly used for energy purposes and therefore the concessionaire is obliged to cover the risks with a first-class insurance company. Such arrangements shall also follow the Court of Auditors’ opinion. The proposed novel will have a positive impact on the economy in the construction of hydroelectric power plants, as Slovenian companies will participate in the design and implementation of works in the vast majority. As already mentioned, there is also an action plan for renewable energy sources that ensures the development of hydropower plants and wind power plants. Since these are also budgetary solutions, the amendment is being considered in the context of the so-called budget meeting, as the approval of the law will allow the opening of the NRP for the Hydroelectric Mokrice in 2018, immediately with the implementation of the 2018 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u23	The proposal for a law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Igor Zorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u24	Thanks again for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 68th emergency meeting. 11. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at the 106th session of 3. Ten. 2017 decided that the proposal for a law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Commission of the State Council, as well as hydropower plants at the Lower Sava, participated or participated in the debate. The amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2 were tabled within the time limit. On behalf of the proposer, the Minister for Environment and Space, Irena Majcen, explained that by adopting the law, the Ministry of Environment and Space would be able to introduce the infrastructure of Hydroelectrica Mokrice into the development programme plan so that it could be implemented in the following year. The method of obtaining funds from the Climate Change Fund for a further period, which relates solely to the condition that, in no financial year, the appropriations allocated do not exceed 50 % of the inflows of the sales of emission allowances under the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system in the Community, which fall within the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the provisions of Directive 2009/29/EC. The law also adapts the deadline for the construction of the entire chain of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava and for the acquisition of a usable permit, which relates to the Hydroelectric Power Plant Mokrice. With regard to the provision of regular investment maintenance for all energy installations and water and energy infrastructure facilities in an indivisible manner, the law defines the obligation to conclude an insurance contract with a first-class insurance undertaking related to the execution of activities under this Act. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that this service had examined the draft law in terms of their competence. As regards their comments made in the written opinion on unilateral interference with the already concluded concession relationship and the imposition of new obligations on concessionaires, it insisted on the concerns expressed in the written opinion. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development explained that the Commission has no comments on the proposal for a law and therefore supports it. He pointed out that the representatives of the proposer made precise and thorough explanations on all the Commission's questions concerning the proposed solutions in the draft law. As I mentioned earlier, Hidroelectrica also presented its position on the Lower Sava, according to its Director Bogdan Barbič, who explained that this company opposes the adoption of Article 1 of the bill because it interferes with the already concluded rights and duties of the concessionaire and will have a negative impact on their business. In the longer term, the SDS Group drew attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which interfered with the existing concession contract. They objected to the explanation of the applicant, the Ministry or the Government, which refers to the Court of Auditors’ audit report when proposing this provision. The opinion of the coalition members was that the law was important for the completion of the hydroelectric power plant chain in the lower Sava, which is also one of the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the action plan to achieve the targets for renewable energy sources and also for the objectives of anti-float security. Mr Levice, inter alia, expressed disappointment at the fact that the concessionaire and the concessionaire could not agree on the issues that were the subject of the bill, which he felt was more worrying than the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service. It was pointed out that such strong resistance of the concessionaire we had received at the meeting of the committee with regard to the fulfilment of the obligations imposed by Article 1 of the bill, given that it is generally known that wages in energy are strong over the Slovenian average, probably means that energy companies are also doing well. After discussion, the Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 1, becoming irrelevant to Article 2, voting on and adopting all the articles of the bill together.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u25	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, Mr Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear representatives from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, all together, good morning. The State Secretary has already stated what the law on the terms of the concession provides for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava. I would only warn her that it's not Battany, but it's Boston. It's not Blanca's hydropower plant, it's Arto-Blanca hydro power plant. The law, however, introduces two key amendments. The proposal for a new law provides for the regular and investment integration of all energy facilities and water energy infrastructure facilities, in an indivisible manner, for the obligation to conclude an insurance contract with a first-class insurance undertaking related to the execution of activities under this Act. This is how the bill reads. What does that actually mean? The Government wants to modify the concession contract unilaterally as an authority. The President of the Government is a lawyer and probably knows that a contract must be concluded between the two and both must agree with the contract or its amendment. In this case, the concessionaire does not agree with the unilateral intervention in the concession contract, but the Ministry of Environment and Space as an authority is in law and respect for concession contracts. The State, in this case, wants to give its share of the responsibility to the Ministry of Environment and Space to the concessionaires. Despite listening to the effect that this would have on the work of the concessionaire at the Committee itself, what impact would it have on the dynamics of the construction or completion of hydropower plants at the Lower Sava Ministry and a large part of the coalition members have on the amendment of the SDS Group so that this issue of the conclusion of the insurance contract with the first-class insurance undertaking to cover the risks of the accumulation lakes would be withdrawn from the proposal for a law. The concessionaire should, therefore, pay something which is the obligation of the State after the law in force. At the same time, the State itself does not know how much this insurance would cost the concessionaire. We've heard the numbers 200 grand, 400 thousand. However, I am personally convinced, given the knowledge of the insurance market and what kind of facility this is on the bottom of the Sava, that it is probably an even greater number, which, as it is said, should be paid by the concessionaire rather than by the state. If we know that this is about the lower Sava for new buildings, that it is about new accumulation lakes, that is to say, some newer acquisitions, we ask ourselves why on the lower Sava the condition of concluding an insurance premium with a first-class insurance company. Why didn't this country use the other hydro power plants we have in the country? The second thing that touches this law, however, is to extend the deadline for the construction of a whole chain of hydroelectric power plants and the acquisition of a usable permit for hydroelectric power plants. If the SDS Group were inoperable, they would propose amendments to keep the law as it is. But we cannot ignore the fact that, with the complete completion of the hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, we are late and therefore have no doubts that we would not support this article, which says that the deadline for the construction of the entire chain of hydroelectric power plants under the proposal of the law is now the end of 2022 and the new deadline for obtaining a usable permit for the hydroelectric power plant Mokrice at the end of 2023. In doing so, we only warn and hope, particularly those who come from the Posavig work, that this law will not be subject to new changes mainly in these final provisions, so that the progress in the completion of the Lower-Sava chain will continue in the coming years. In the SDS Group, we will also support the amendment of the coalition's sent groups, which in fact follows our amendment, which we have proposed at the very meeting of the parent working body. This is because, by 2023, in the area of the conclusion of the insurance contract, there is no change in the fact that both the State and the concessionaire have almost 5 years of time to reconcile what and how with this insurance premium. Another question raised was whether the words of the minister on the committee were deliberately misleading or did she not know the functioning of her ministry? This is also indicated by her various actions. So let me get this straight. The Minister adopted conclusions on the airworthiness arrangements on the lower Sava and did not stick to them. That tells us enough about how serious the Minister is for the environment and space. Totally surreal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u27	Procedurally, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, I'm the man who's probably in this appeal most often Mrs. Irena's justified, I'll say, an attack. Ma'am, I'm going to defend her now. Mrs Irena inherited a whole series of audits at the Ministry, because for 20 years almost no one has done what should be done. Today we are talking about the point, the pre-election point, about how we are going to put almost a quarter billion in the budget for concrete alone and about the energy lobby being a bulwark. If it has been previously made clear to me that I am not decent enough, Mr President, if you do not give Lisc a warning now, I will seriously consider returning my term of office. Thank you for your word. Seriously. Fortunately, many of you and probably some of you from the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u29	Well, well. Calm down. I understand this intervention that as part of the explanation of the Group's position, there was also a partial attack on the Minister. I understand, and now it was a defense. But I didn't give you and I won't give it to Liscu, but I'm asking you to keep these matters as small as possible. And if anyone notices them, they don't have to use procedural, just let them come to me, and then I'll make it clear that some sort of thing went through at some point. Okay? The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, distinguished Secretary of State, Mr Director, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a new Law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Central Save – ups, Lower Save – is intended to extend the deadlines for the construction of a whole chain of hydroelectric power plants and the acquisition of a usable permit. Thus, the new deadline for the construction of the chain at the end of 2022 and the end of 2023 for the acquisition of a usable permit is the new deadline. One of the reasons why the Environment Ministry decided to amend the law is the Court of Auditors audit report of 2014 requiring measures to make the use of funds more transparent. In particular, the novelty refers to the possibilities and resources that can be used to finance water or state infrastructure, such as flood management and accumulating pools. As expected, the Director of Hydroelectrica on the Lower Sava protested a new provision of the proposal which, in order to ensure regular and investment maintenance of all energy installations and water and energy infrastructure facilities in an indivisible manner, defines the obligation to conclude an insurance contract with a first-class insurance undertaking related to the execution of activities under this Act. It based its opposition on the fact that the experts reminded him of the possibility of insolvency of the company if the company had to make compulsory insurance. This raises the question of who these experts are and how much the company had to pay for this finding. It is more than obvious that the acquisition of expert opinions has become a permanent practice of energy companies, despite the fact that such legal and expert opinions are not cheap. In the Desus Group we will support the proposal. At the same time, I must express my concern that once the construction of the last hydropower plant on the lower Sava is completed, the construction of hydropower plants on the Sava in general is completed, as HSE and the largest coalition party are doing their utmost to stop the law that would allow the construction of power plants on the mid-Savi to take the form of the lower Sava. This is unacceptable, even if we remember our country's commitments to acquire 25% of renewable energy by 2020, including hydroelectric power plants. That is why I believe that it is necessary to accelerate the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the middle of the Sava, but not to block processes, because, after all, the whole country will short-circuit, read, pay high penalties if we do not fulfil the commitments made to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u31	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr Zvonko Lah, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u32	We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava proposed by the Government. The whole novelty lays down the conditions for the implementation of the concession for the exploitation of water energy potential in the area of the lower Sava, from Suhadol to the state border with the Republic of Croatia, and the conditions to be met by the concessionaire in the planning and construction of concession facilities. With this proposal, the government is extending the deadlines for the construction of a whole chain of hydroelectric power plants and the acquisition of a usable permit. The deadline for the construction of a whole chain of hydroelectric power plants is extended by two years, i.e. until the end of 2022, as proposed by law. However, the deadline for obtaining a user authorisation is extended until the end of 2023. The extension period for the construction of the Sava hydroelectric power plant chain is extended according to the national renewable energy action plan, for the development of hydroelectric power plants and wind power plants until 2030. We certainly support the proposal of the New Slovenia Group because it provides the means to continue or complete the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava as soon as possible. We have only doubts about Article 1 of the draft law which provides for an intervention in existing concession contracts, as new obligations are imposed on concessionaires. In our view, this is an entirely unilateral intervention in the agreed rights and obligations, which is contrary to the Constitution. Although it has been explained by the applicant that this is the result of the Court's audit report, it is difficult to agree with this explanation. It was also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Save. We also support the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the Central Sava, which we believe we should adopt a similar law, as was the opinion of the predecessor, for this part of the Sava.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u33	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'll tell you in advance that we're not going to support this marriage. Why? In 2014 the United Left in this area called for a public consultation on the energy concept of Slovenia. Today we do not have this, although the Ministry, secondly, for the infrastructure to which energy belongs, has promised to do so in 2015. We all know well that in this society and the state of the energy lobby there is an adversarial. If, Mr President, who thinks that I am sometimes indecisive, that I am not worthy enough, we would go to see a magnetogram of the mother's working body, we would see that the director of the lower-Savish power plants has put it this way: “I am a long-standing expert,” which is probably, “you’re changing your policies, I’m almost unable to explain.” This is where we run into two things. One of the more minor is that we have a ministry that is “fascal” and we actually have a legal entity that is indirectly 100 % owned by the state. Now the state cannot deal with the country because the energy lobby does not want someone to have a lower profit or a lower salary due to this insurance premium. The story of Lower-Savish power plants is slightly different from the previous buildings we had because it is built from the budget, because of the fact that the transitional policies "infused" this country and energy. We are now in the pre-election year, and it wants to go to two power plants for just a quarter billion concrete, which will mostly go out of budget. Then the messengers of Posavius, the chief elective, would build a little more there. I said to the committee on behalf of the Left: "This should be stopped and seriously considered." Yesterday he became a master, I know his name, Slavko Križnik. The company is called S. Var. On the other hand, it mainly manufactures Francis' turbines for small hydropower plants. I live near Austria and very often go there also to the invitation of their climate-Bündnis to watch how they have organised local energy self-sustainment there. Personally, as the person most involved in this activity in Levica, I say that we should immediately stop all these constructions and seriously consider them. We have energy poverty, we have energy inefficiency, but the concrete lobby and the energy lobby and the Members from those ends would build up and then you would retire as some prominent SDS member and also a former minister for well-paid advisory functions, and we will not have for pensions, for families, for housing policy, for children, for schools, for textbooks, and could list a minute and a half as much as I have time. This is an unscrupulous, irresponsible policy, which is being pursued by the majority in this call of the National Assembly and which has also been followed by the previous call of the National Assembly. When we get to energy, when I listen to, say, a person from SDS or a person from SD, you sound very similar because you're being licked here together, or someone else from SMC. It is the policy's responsibility to take a decision from the energy lobby on Slovenia's energy future. For me, the energy future of Slovenia is not concrete. And even if we touch flood safety, we have beautiful villages along the Sava, anti-flooding security could also be ensured by a slightly deeper excavation and smaller walls. Not that you're going to be a beautiful village two meters or 70 meters away, 80 feet away, my dears! As a result, more landscape architects may be needed by the architects themselves. What Mr Lisec sees as rude is merely the responsibility of the Member, which comes from Article 82 of the Constitution, which states that we are not bound by any instructions. Not at the direction of the energy lobby, not at the direction of the party leaders, sirs! That is why we will vote against it in Levica. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u35	Mr Igor Zorčič, of the Modern Centre Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. The construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava is one of the coalition parties' commitments under the coalition agreement and is, in fact, one logical consequence of modern energy policy. This is to invest in renewable energy as well. The chain of hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava is not the only chain of hydroelectric power plants, we also have them on other rivers that have been created significantly earlier in the history of Slovenia. However, all of these positive results, as far as electricity production and its prices are concerned and also affecting the environment, give us the idea that we need to continue with such a policy of building a hydroelectric power plant not only on the lower Sava, even on the middle Sava and perhaps elsewhere. In the past, we have also witnessed different decisions in the field of energy when we have taken or have made a decision that also involves investments that are much less environmentally friendly and that also have a much more uncertain future in the light of European Union policies than hydroelectric ones. If I mention all the multiple effects of the construction of hydroelectric power plants, the real effects arising from the fact that it is actually engaged to a large extent by domestic labour, domestic knowledge, domestic society, then it is clear that the project for which this coalition has committed must continue. The last step we have to take in this is the construction of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. The proposal to amend the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava provides financing for the construction of the remaining part of the chain, that is, infrastructure at the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. The proposal provides that, in the event that, by the end of the construction of the Mokrica hydropower plant or by the end of 2022, sufficient resources will not be provided for the financing of infrastructure, which will be financed under the provisions of the law under the Climate Change Fund, and that any missing funds will be provided from the Water Fund, other budgetary resources or the concessionaire's funds under prior agreement with the concessionaire. And this is actually the essence of this law to allow the construction of the Mokrica hydroelectric power plant to begin as soon as possible. Of course, this project is not alone and isolated simply to build and exploit the energy potential of the Sava River. They also have one very important other solution, which in fact provides some kind of flood protection to the surrounding population, which has proved to be positive for all other hydropower plants. That is why we welcome all the efforts of the Government, which, after the successful construction of HE Brežica, which was actually completed before the deadline, continues with regard to the Mokrica hydroelectric power plant and we have no concerns about the law itself. They're really prolonging their marriage, but I'd rather say they're adjusting their hands for the construction of the Mokrica hydropower plant. This is due to the need to obtain certain environmental consensus, including the opinion of the Republic of Croatia in the past, which has also fostered a certain backlog in the final construction and start of this hydropower plant. These are certain procedures, which are also the result of the so-called Nature 2000, which is always putting Slovenia at risk of a dilemma as to whether environmentally friendly energy sources should withdraw from the environment itself. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the law, but we will also support the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, which somehow alleviates the concerns that it has also addressed to the National Assembly of the Legislative and Legal Service, this is about interfering with the concessional relationship between the concessionaire and the concessionaire. With the amendment envisaged, we will postpone the consequences that would arise in the law and which the concessionaire regards as negative until the end of the construction of the entire chain of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u37	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SMC, Desus and SD to the new Chapter A transitional and final provision and to a new Article 4.a. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support that amendment. The concerns addressed to the National Assembly by the Legislative and Legal Service seem justified. Regardless of the discussions we have had on the Committee, it is clear by nature that the law in some way unilaterally interferes with a relationship that is regulated between the concessionaire and the concessionaire in particular with their special contract. We think that any changes in the rights and obligations arising from this concessional relationship would also be regulated by the State or Government in such a way that, in fact, there would be some kind of agreement and that, in this case, either an additional concession contract or a change in that relationship in any other way might be possible by any special contract. As for the law, as already mentioned in the position, we support this law. It is more than obvious that this project needs to be continued, not only because of the objectives we have under the action plan on consumption, gross final energy consumption from renewable energy sources, but also because of flood protection. In this regard, we hope and expect the early start of the construction of all those measures and infrastructures necessary for the construction of flood protection in the village of Velika Malence and Krška Vas, which also falls partly under the project, if I may say so, of the hydroelectric power plant Mokrice. In view of the fact that the last rain was a good week ago, I can also say that from experience on the ground, people in these places are quite uncertain when it comes to rainfall that lasts two or three days. In fact, there is a so-called blockage of the Sava River, which starts to raise the Krko River and there constantly occurs floods, whether smaller or smaller, every so long even a little larger. And ignoring the effects of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on flood safety is, of course, unrealistic. I am sure, as well as the experience of colleagues from Sevnica and Krske, say, citizens and peoples of Krske, there is evidence that anti-flooding safety has been demonstrated since these hydroelectric plants were built, significantly larger and in fact we can somehow keep the Savo in the harbor, which is perhaps not the most attractive for the eye, but it represents some substantial greater security for the locals and not least for the property. We will support the law, but we will also support the amendment, which does not fully address these concerns of the Legal and Legislative Service, but somehow prolongs them. It is, in fact, a provision that imposes some additional obligations. I am confident that, given how it is designed, there will be more than enough time for the Ministry of the Environment to sit down with the concessionaire and agree on these matters which are addressed by the law in Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u39	Mr. Tomaž Lisec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you, President, for your word. In the SDS Group, we also announce support for this article, which creates a new chapter which speaks of the application of the provisions of Article 1 of this Act on the date of the validity of the applicable permit of water and energy infrastructure facilities for the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. Our amendment to the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space was that we should not, in fact, talk about this, because we have advocated the idea that it is not only illegal, but even illegal, that the Ministry of the Environment and Space as one of the parties to the coalition contract unilaterally and arbitrarily amends the concession contract and imposes financial obligations on the concessionaire, for which we believe there are no grounds or, precisely, are obligations that only the Ministry of Environment and Space should fulfil. From this place I ask representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and Space, how is the conclusion of insurance contracts with first-class insurance insurance companies at other hydro power plants we have in Slovenia. Are these insurance contracts in existence, and how high are they? This is one of the key moments when we are talking about the financial consequences of this law. Are there insurance contracts in Slovenia in this area and what are the amounts of these insurance contracts? But we didn't get this on the board, so I'm asking again today whether there are insurance contracts and what are the amounts. If insurance contracts do not exist, and if you do not know what the amounts are, then it is even more irresponsible that before completing the hydropower plants on the lower Sava you pressure the contractor or the concessionaire to protect something, for the first time, which has not been completed at all, and, for the second time, we do not even know what it will cost. When I myself listened to or participated in the debate at my mother's work, I got the feeling that what was actually happening was what some suggest that certain parts of the Ministry of Environment and Space had a lot of concerns about the start of the construction of the Mokrica hydropower plant. Among them are probably people who were happy to take pictures at the opening of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, which was recently gathered to quote Mr Trček, “the entire energy lobby in Slovenia, which exists”. They were people from this first energy pillar, and they were people from the second energy pillar. There were people dealing exclusively with renewable energy sources, there would be experts in hydro power plants, nuclear power plants, thermal power plants, as well as people who advocate more modern forms of renewable resources, such as the sun and so on. I must say, as we are talking today about the extension of the deadline for the construction of the entire chain on the bottom of the Sava, we must all pour our ashes, at least those of us who have been in the National Assembly for some time, but all those who live next to the bottom of the Sava, from the Hydropower Plant Vrhovo downstream, we know who was the key blocking moment through the process of obtaining tons of documentation and building a hydropower plant. One shortcut: MOP. The Ministry of Environment and Space was the largest inhibitor. Fortunately, we have certain people in this ministry who are aware of where Posavije is, where Sava is running in its lower part, and want to help Posav in facilitating the acquisition of various projects. Personally, I have good experience with one of the officials who always listens to what we want to do in Posavia. Here I will refer to what I have said in the position of the SDS Group on the lack of seriousness of the Minister. In the previous and this mandate, I have asked five or six questions from the Members about the airworthiness of the Sava River. Here we have a gentleman sitting among the government's representatives who wants to help Posav. But there were people at the meeting who obviously had no idea where the Sava River was and that it was running downstream. And last but not least, why was I talking about the lack of seriousness of the minister? Because in one of the last questions sent, she answered that a timetable was being prepared or that, according to her words and assurances, a timetable would be drawn up for the navigation of the Sava River on a daily basis, for the hydropower plant Arto - Blanca, for the hydroelectric Krka and then also for the hydroelectric Brežica. These hands passed before May 1st. The minister doesn't stick to her deadlines. I am not going to go about how unserious her work is and I am not going to talk about the fact that there is a key regulation missing in the area of smoking, that there is a lack of what she has written in the law. And that's the problem. Not that it's the former ministers' fault, but we have the Smoker Service Act and the Funeral and Funeral Activities Act, where the Minister herself wrote in the law, until when she will issue the submarital acts. And she didn't do it. And in the smoke industry, we know what's going on. If I am rightly aware, yesterday was the first case of a death victim, for which we can directly say that it is guilty because there are no records at the Ministry of the Environment and the premises that this Minister has promised. And in the field of burial and funeral activities, we do not have a regulation that obliges the congregations to change their decisions in this area. In fact, the municipalities are in an illegal state because they do not have decisions because there is no key regulation on methodology in this law. That's why I attacked the secretary that she's not serious about her work, because there's evidence for that. Now for the amendment. I hope I get an answer about insurance premiums. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to all Members who are still in the positions of the groups of Members today, especially those coming from Zasavje, to say how this must be accepted as soon as possible. Once again, until the last hydro power plant on the lower Sava is built, this is the Mokrice hydropower plant, you can forget at least the start of the actual construction of hydro power plants on the central Sava. In this amendment, we note that we are only doing what should not be done at all, as has already been found by the Legislative and Legal Service, that unilateral intervention in the already signed concession contracts is unacceptable. By means of this amendment, we are changing what was stated in the bill that it was from the beginning of the 1st century. 1. 2018 The concessionaire is committed to certain works, and we do not even know what this financial aspect will be, that we will extend this until we commit ourselves, the Mokrice hydropower plant will be built, will obtain a legal usable permit, and then we can talk about whether or not to protect ourselves at all and what will be the amount of this insurance premium. I am even more sorry that we need to talk about unilateral infringements into the concession contract when we have the office of President of the Government of Legal Affairs. I understand that we have some energy to manage this scene, but that the President of the Government signs a bill sent by the Government to the National Assembly, where the Government, through the Ministry of Environment and Space, unilaterally confronts the concessionaire as the other party to the concession contract, is unacceptable. Perhaps each of us has signed a contract in our lives and has always been among at least two parties. There may have been three parties, but there have always been contracts, and both of them have had to agree, or a legal lesson has been written below, if anything happens, that we know who and what decisions are made. But here the Ministry of Environment and Space has arbitrarily decided to enter into a concession contract. Speaking of lower Savi, we're not just talking about energy work. My friend Zorčič is afraid every week of large rainfalls that would cause floods. And this has also happened with us in Sevnica, which is why hydropower plants do not have only energy work, have a great impact on flood safety, agriculture, tourism, etc. A lot of perspectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u41	Ms Lidija Stebernak, State Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I just want to explain why we wrote this article at the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is in the public interest that money is not spent on public funds that are in the water or public services in this area. I'll explain this with the next one. If the Accumulation Lake is in the management of energy activities, it also performs regular and investment maintenance while also laying down the conditions for the use of accumulation pools, the concessionaire shall be also the operator. The fact that the facilities owned by the State, the operator or contractor of the works on the premises also indicates that several facilities are arranged in this way, in particular for school facilities and other public institutions operating in facilities owned by the State or local community, but are committed to settling and paying insurance as well. In the Court of Auditors’ view, as also reflected in its report, this also ensures transparency in the use of public funds. It is true, however, that this must be regulated by law, so this article has also been written in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u43	Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. If you don't want to discuss anyone else, I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided on Thursday, 16th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 11. 2017, in the framework of the votes. Now I think I can say what I want to say at 9:00. It's clear that there's enough time in there for us to start at 9:00. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the basis of the above, the Commission considers that the measures are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market and are compatible with the internal market. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance Mag. Matei Vranictor Erman.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The country's budget framework is the central medium-term document setting out the fiscal framework for the next three years and is prepared under the Fiscal Rule Act. The Fiscal Rule Act also provides that the Government may, by 15 September of the current year, find that the circumstances under which the framework has been adopted have changed and propose an amendment which, together with the draft budget, is being forwarded to the National Assembly. On 14 September this year, the government found that the circumstances under which the framework for this year had been adopted had changed and that a proposal for amending the budget for 2018 and the budget for 2019 had also been prepared. In doing so, we have taken into account the macroeconomic estimates from the spring forecast, the pardon, the original decree is prepared on the basis of macroeconomic estimates from Umar's spring forecast and preliminary estimates of economic growth for 2016 since the end of February of this year. The SURS published its first official annual GDP growth assessment for 2016 and GDP audits for the years 2012 to 2015 at the end of August. According to the statistics found, both the GDP growth assessment as well as the forecast of macroeconomic indicators for 2018 and 2019, which was publicly published by Umar on 21 September, was amended in the autumn economic forecast. All of these changes have a significant impact on the country's income estimates for this year, as well as for the following years. As a result, they also have an impact on the rate of fiscal consolidation in order to comply with fiscal rules and thus on the level of expenditure of individual public funds. When amending the decree, the Government proposes to amend the ceiling of the expenditure of the State budget and the ceiling of the expenditure of the health allowance. As a result, the ceiling of the total expenditure of the state sector is also changing and the target balance of the state budget and sector is changing. The proposed changes on the ceiling of the expenditure of the State budget reflect new commitments. In particular, it is the obligations of the NATO liaison, the taking over of the costs of non-health services from the health treasury, the increase in expenditure for the abolition of waiting periods, the establishment of the lowest pension, the operation of the Migrants Office and some other minor new obligations. There is also a change in the dynamics of European spending. Taking into account the estimated higher level of government budget revenue for 2018, according to the adopted budget, revenue will be higher than EUR 400 million, it is proposed that most of the additional revenue is earmarked for faster public financial consolidation and that additional commitments are covered mainly by reallocations of available expenditure. However, the Government considers that it is appropriate to increase the ceiling of total expenditure for increased expenditure on European funds and not to further limit the integral expenditure of the state budget. In order to ensure the financing of the health system, the Government considered that it would be appropriate to increase the allowed level of health expenditure by EUR 20 million. Such an increase is justified by higher health allowance revenues in the coming years, mainly on the basis of health care contributions and transfer revenue, which means that health treasury, despite higher expenditure, will continue to operate in a balanced manner. The increase in expenditure ceilings for two public treasury funding has also resulted in an increase in the total maximum expenditure for the whole sector of the country. In 2018, the maximum expenditure is increased by € 130 million, which is the basis for determining the surplus of 0.4% of GDP. As revenue increases faster than expenditure, public financial consolidation is also being promoted and the state budget will record a nominal surplus for the next two years. The government thus maintains its commitment to achieving the medium-term fiscal objective expressed in the structural balance of the sector and respects the commitments made under the Fiscal Rule Act and the Stability and Growth Pact. The Government proposes to the National Assembly to support the amendment of the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u45	The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, everyone! The Committee is at its 80th emergency session. Ten. 2017 as a parent working body, considered the Proposal for a Decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2018 to 2020 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the assessment of the Fiscal Council and the Government's position on the assessment of the Fiscal Council. No amendments were tabled to the motion for a decree. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development of the Fiscal Council and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. The recital to the motion for a decree was made by the Minister of Finance, who explained that certain circumstances under which the applicable decree had been adopted in the spring had changed and, in the light of this, amendments to the fiscal policy objectives for 2018 are proposed. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that she had no comments on the proposed decision. The President of the Fiscal Council explained in his presentation of the assessment of the Fiscal Council that the budget for 2018 is within the limits of the fiscal rule, but in achieving the relevant structural fiscal effort in 2018 it is also necessary to take into account the fact that no adequate fiscal effort was achieved in 2017. It further pointed out that the projected structural effort of 0.6 % of GDP in 2019 was not ensured and that, according to the available data, compliance with the spending rule was not ensured. In addition, Director Umarja presented the findings of the autumn forecast of economic developments. In the debate, some members felt that the budget documents did not reflect the Government's appropriate strategy for effective measures in the present with a view to achieving the objectives set in the various social areas in the future. According to the state budget's revenues, the reduction of the budget deficit is too modest and the proportion of the funds allocated to pensions is too small. In this respect, it was explained that during the crisis, more resources had to be added to the pension fund from the State budget, as there was insufficient money from contributions to the pension fund. Some discussers considered that the reduction of interest expenditure was merely a result of a favourable financial situation, in which the Minister stressed the importance of active debt management and recalled that the lower profits were also conditional on a stable public financial situation. The debaters expressed concern about the assessment by the Fiscal Council of partial compliance with budgetary documents and the need to establish a structural balance that will also take into account some other problems, such as population ageing. The Minister explained that the proposed amendment only regulates 2018. In the preparation of the new decree next year, the Government will also regulate the target balance and maximum expenditure for 2019 and 2020. She stressed that the Government is taking all the recommendations of the Fiscal Council seriously while at the same time seeking the balance of fiscal policy, which will continue to support further economic growth. The issue of the transmission of missing data to the Fiscal Council was also raised, where the Minister stressed that all data were fully provided in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation with the Fiscal Council. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft decree and adopted them. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee of the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector for the period 2018 to 2020 be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u47	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! Allow me to present the position of the Desus Group on the proposal for amendments to the Decision on the framework for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2018 to 2020. In opening, let me say that we will not oppose the proposal for amendments to the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2018 to 2020 in the parliamentary group. The proposal for amendments also has its legal basis, as provided by the fiscal rule. It is only possible under changed circumstances and must remain within a specific public financial framework. Since the proposal for amendments to the decree is part of the budget package of legislation, let us reiterate that we are in favour of clear priorities in the Group of Members when it comes to the sharing of public money. There is no room for the appetites of individuals here, but the most attention needs to be paid to solving the pressing problem in the area of social and health care. The health department is the one currently in need of the most money, and at the same time, it has the most criticism at the expense of the one who runs it or is responsible for it. We mean those who really need this money. True, sometimes money does not help, but it is essential that the right to quality public health is accessible to all citizens without exception. It is unacceptable that we still have to deal with long waiting types, and even worse, we feel like such hospitals without doctors, overestimated procurement of medicines and equipment and avoiding those responsible for accumulation of loss of previous years. For a moment, it seems to us that health care would be a single pit without a bottom, in which to put more and more. In the Desus Group we cannot and will not oppose the extra money for the health treasury, because it is more than obviously needed. However, we cannot observe such a situation of time-consuming and deny the Government's every decision after the urgent resolution of this problem without taking serious systemic solutions. Only by patching up health care problems with temporary short-term measures will we not go far. The health department longs for systemic solutions, such as those that will benefit those who are committed. As has already been said, in the Group of Members, we support the increase in expenditure on health bills, as quality health services must be accessible to all citizens. The fact that there is no objection is that the medical treasury has to rely even more on its own financial resources, since it does not receive direct state transfer, as is the case with the pension fund. In the Desus Group, we will continue to fight to keep both cash registers, both pension and health care intact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u49	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In fact, the proposal for a regulation amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2018 to 2020 is a document restricting public funding planning and, in fact, a document based on the adopted fiscal rule. It is thus an act limiting the total revenue and expenditure of public treasury and thus setting out the maximum total expenditure within which it is necessary to draw up a budget for both the State and the budgets of the health and pension treasury. The level of fiscal rule in practice means that public treasury expenditure is limited by gross domestic product, economic growth and forecasts of this growth in the coming years. Of course, the current Slovenian economic growth is by no means overheating, especially given that, in the years when the economic and financial crisis arose, we often panicked, even made statements that the country would go bankrupt, and all this was known in the financial markets with the high costs, the high interest that the country had to pay at the time. Finally, economic growth deviates significantly from what has also been announced in the calculation of the bank hole, where it is evident that it was a completely wrong starting point. Economic growth was projected to decline in 2013, 2014, 2015, but in fact economic growth in Slovenia has been present all the time. That is why all the congratulations and praises of the economy that has created such exports, which are the most important contributors to the gross domestic product, have in fact been organised beyond the limits that have also been given as an undertaking to the European Commission, that banks, despite 5.2 billion, cannot fund our economy in a favourable way. In addition to the fiscal rule, there is a further limitation on the possibility of domestic banks financing, despite the fact that we have earmarked 5.2 billion for rehabilitation. To a large extent, gross domestic product is also the product of higher consumption of the population. However, if we were to face more reasonable measures in the economic and financial crisis, there would also be less pressure on people and this economic growth would in fact be significantly greater all the time. If we add to this that we would also contribute significantly to better consumption and to better public treasury conditions through significantly more effective measures to prevent corruption and more effective measures to prevent or limit or to additional taxation of remittances into tax havens, the revenues in the state budget would be significantly higher and the budget would therefore be significantly more optimistic. More money would be for both health care and pension funds, as well as all other social transfers. This is also the reason, i.e. only a fiscal rule and all these measures or problems that we face and do not solve them effectively enough, why this better economic growth, the larger gross domestic product, is not known to people. The fiscal rule is one of those that even in the constitution has constrained people to feel faster economic growth than at this moment. I objected to this myself, but it was not enough to even write in the Constitution such a harmful provision. In this resolution, we change the criteria to be set in accordance with the fiscal rule formula and follow what is enshrined in the Constitution, so we will support this decree. Without all these measures, however, we could talk about the fact that economic growth is significantly greater and the situation of people is significantly better without these restrictive measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u51	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mr. Joseph Horvat, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with co-worker, dear colleague and colleague! The Decision amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the State sector's budgets for the period 2018 to 2020 is based on positive prospects for Slovenian economic growth in the coming years. In Novi Slovenija, we are no longer surprised that the Government will use every forecast of economic growth to increase and increase national spending. That is also the case with the decision we are considering today. In 2018, the country's maximum expenditure for the sector increased by up to EUR 132 million. Expenditure on health bills is increasing by EUR 20 million. However, the maximum expenditure on the state budget is increased by EUR 50 million. Public consumption as a share of gross domestic product is one of the most important indicators in fiscal policy. The high share of public expenditure in gross domestic product requires a large budget inflows and consequently a large tax burden. Compared to the OECD average, Slovenia is still among countries with an average percentage of public expenditure as a share in gross domestic product. In 2016, according to Eurostat, these were 45.5%. While economic growth can expect a reduction in this percentage, the decline is only a result of the economic cycle and does not result from the Government's efforts to reduce public consumption. For the government is steadily increasing budget expenditure. This fact shows that we do not have the assurance that the trend of reducing the percentage of public expenditure in GDP will continue over the coming years, but that the situation of this indicator will depend only on economic growth. In this context, I should like to remind you of the views of the Fiscal Council, which has pointed out that a significant structural balance that does not include single and conjunctural influences and where it is sustainable in the long term. The Fiscal Council points out that fiscal balance, which would only offset revenue with budget expenditure, is not sufficient. According to the President of the Fiscal Council, we need a structural balance that will also take into account those problems which Slovenia has not yet successfully addressed. In doing so, he cited the problem of population ageing. Slovenia should achieve an average annual structural effort of at least 0.6% of gross domestic product over the next two years, according to the Fiscal Sveletos. These warnings lead us to the issue of implementation of reforms. It is quite clear that we have a high structural deficit because the government of Mira Cerar has not prepared any major reform. It solves demographic problems simply by setting up a Demographic Fund instead of seriously facing a decline in birth rates. Instead of tax reform, we meet again and again in Parliament with so-called cosmetic corrections. Health reforms, pension reforms and labour market reform will not be forthcoming, as the mandate is over. Bureaucratation continues to burden the economic initiative. Until Slovenia does these homework, the nominal budget surplus will not help us much. The circumstances in which the Slovenian economy is located can only change a little and the fiscal system can quickly shake again. In New Slovenia, we will not support the country's proposal for a regulation amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets of the sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u53	The word is given by the Group of the Left, for which is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! As we have heard, this decree determines how much public expenditure we will have in the next three years. This decision will have a strong impact on the lives of citizens and citizens. This decree does not only set out how much the state budget can consume, but also how much they can spend on congregations, pension funds, and medical bills. In other words, this decree sets out in a global way what the social rights of children and families will be, how much money there will be for pensions and how much for health care. Members of the Left will not support this decision because it does not respond to the most pressing problems of this society. If I illustrate a single case, it's in health. In Parliament last month, we passed an intervention law to remedy 80% of the hospital losses that have accumulated in recent years, but the losses in hospitals continue to accumulate. Hospitals do not even manage running costs, let alone follow medical developments. Long waiting periods arise, among other things, because resources are insufficient and because they do not have enough health workers. At the same time, the situation in healthcare institutions and nursing homes is so serious that the Community of Social Institutions intends to sue the country because the institutions with current revenues no longer cover the basic costs. As a result, last month, Ljubljana’s nursing homes raised the cost of care, bringing additional costs to the caregivers and their families, as the state does not provide them with funds. And we know the situation in these institutions, and I described it yesterday. In such circumstances, the government should, under economic conditions, use forces and resources to improve the health and social welfare situation. This government didn't do it. On the contrary, it has frozen the revenues of health and social institutions and thus prevented the normal operation of hospitals and homes for older, in short, those institutions that are essential for the quality of life. Although Slovenia has a high economic growth, health funds will increase by only EUR 20 million, i.e. 0.7% compared to the previous year. Therefore, it is already clear that health and social protection problems will remain in 2018. This may not be a particular problem for people with higher average incomes, for those who have a high salary or a pension may eventually also benefit from self - paying treatment or a stay in a private home. Everyone else, so the vast majority of the people don't have the money for it. For such a policy, there is no objective reason for the poverty of health and social institutions. The crisis is simply due to wrong priorities and wrong policies. Instead of allocating available funds to address the health and social security crisis, the military funds will be increased. Over the next eight years, NATO’s targets for Slovenia alone amounted to EUR 1.2 billion. Only 56 new patriots will cost the country €207 million. What good will this do the country? Perhaps some government policy will enhance its reputation in Washington or Brussels. There will be no contribution to the development of Slovenia or to the well-being of our people. This is the main reason why we will not support this decree in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u55	The text shall be given by the Group of Non-Aligned Members, for which the Mag. Alenka Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u56	Good morning. President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! When we look at the title of this point, this is the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budgets, we would probably think that this is an important document. And it should be an important document. But since you first brought him to the National Assembly, I remind you that if this document were to be like, it's important, we should tell him how he's being prepared, how he's changing, when we can change him at all. To this end, we should have a change to the Public Finance Act on the table. It's not like that. You also prepare this document so little at will, self-serving. When we have a law on the table that would provide an additional EUR 20 million to a group of people to pay the pensioners in full, the government's response is that the fiscal framework does not allow the decision to be adopted. When the government comes up with an idea of its own, it can quickly change this fiscal framework. That's not right. This document is a complete document without any value at this time. When you figure out how to prepare it, how to change it, what are the conditions for it to even reach it, it will get some value. But it's probably with some new more responsible government. The fact is, and this is also based on the fact that there is more money in the country, in the country's sector. We are talking about health care, pensions, budget and municipalities. Yes, money is essential more than years ago. And it's only right to look at what you've done with this greater amount of money to do. Only three or four major categories – health care, pensions and social education. The health department has managed to get you a lot more money to a colleague. Health care is a mess. Even if the President says it's the citizens and citizens' fault, it's the government's responsibility. Health care is really on its knees. Retirement. With significantly more money, you have still managed to keep anti-crisis measures in place. It's a school. You are really spending a little more money on school because you have agreed on higher wages, but I think that for the first time in years, we are talking on the proposal of the Government of Mir Cerar that financing for private and public education, which is very wrong, is very wrong. Public education is a pillar. And that's all the country should be funding. Unfortunately, health care on the knees, education to equalize both public and private and pensioners still save. This is a picture that comes from this decree. It is a pity that in such a good situation we do not have a government that is a little more ambitious.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u57	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Urska Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello again! The country's budgeting framework decree is a central document setting out our fiscal framework for the next three years and is prepared under the Fiscal Rule Act. This year's decree, the right decree for the period from 2018 to 2020, was already adopted in the National Assembly in April. At that time, the origins were mainly spring forecasts of macroeconomic developments prepared by Umar and the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. In September, on the basis of Umar's autumn forecast and new data from the Statistical Office, the government found that the circumstances under which the decree was adopted changed. Therefore, in accordance with the Fiscal Rule Act, it has drafted a proposal for amendments to the decree that we are considering today and has changed the objective of fiscal policy for 2018. However, any changes to the macroeconomic situation for 2019 and 2020 will be assessed by the Government at the beginning of the following year when it approaches the preparation of the Framework Decision for the preparation of the budgets for the period 2019 to 2021. This time, the amendment to the Decision applies only to 2018. What the proposed changes relate to. There are two substantive amendments: the first relates to the maximum allowable amount of expenditure for the state budget and the second for the health treasury. Firstly, the decree proposes that the ceiling of the expenditure of the state budget be raised by EUR 50 million after the cash flow. This increase is based on changed macroeconomic circumstances and the aim of the increase is also to ease the pressure on the use of integral resources due to higher projected expenditure from the EU. This allowed us to further financially support programmes or programme content in the budget that we discussed yesterday, where additional needs have been highlighted, particularly in the fields of science, education, safety, health and other areas. So we're spending more money on these areas. Another change, due to the increased transfer of the state budget to the health treasury and previously mentioned macroeconomic indicators, also raises the spending limit on health bills by EUR 20 million. Why? In accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Services Act, in 2018 and 2019 the State budget provides €40 million and €60 million for the financing of traineeships of healthcare workers and specialisations of doctors who have been fully financed by the Financial Plan of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia until the implementation of this Act. In addition, in 2018, we provide €18 million from the state budget to finance a special government project to reduce waiting hours in health care. Both amendments constitute additional revenue in the form of transfers from the State budget in the amounts indicated. The result of these two changes is that the total maximum expenditure for the whole sector has also been raised, with the total volume of revenue increasing faster, and public financial consolidation has also been accelerated. In our Group of Members, we support both amendments to the decree. The government is pursuing the objective of lagging behind the growth of public financial revenues, thus reducing the deficit moderately with a favourable impact on economic growth. The government is therefore implementing a fiscal policy that provides a stable macroeconomic environment, which reflects exemplary economic growth and an ever-increasing outlook for public finances. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a decree amending the Framework Decision for the preparation of the country's budget for the period 2018 to 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. [[He's not here.]] We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a decree, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place on Thursday, 16th, in accordance with the schedule of the meeting. 11. 2017, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the 7th item of the agenda. Moving on to 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19. It's a day's work. Council Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of 19 December 2006 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by Member States and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 1907/2006 and (EC) No 1907/2006 and (EC) No 1907/2006 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Proposals for resolutions were submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a ruling, I give the floor to the representative of mags. Kseniya Klampfer, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u60	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Proposal for a Decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2018 and 2019. The proposed decision on the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds shall be adopted on the basis of the Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities and the Real Property Regulation of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities. The law provides that the real estate management plan shall be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly, together with the draft budget. Taking into account the real estate management plan and the real estate management plan in 2018, we plan EUR 85 million of EUR 784 000 of real estate revenues, and in the same period we plan purchases of assets of EUR 200 million of EUR 923 000 882. It takes into account the real estate management plan and the real estate management plan in 2018 and 2019, we plan 17 million EUR 541 000 905 of income, and we plan purchases of assets of EUR 130 million 932 thousand 106. In the part where the financial implications relate to the projected increase in revenue from the State budget, the financial implications are indicative. These will depend on the success or implementation of planned management procedures with the state's real assets. In order to comply with those financial implications from the budget, the individual budgetary users or ministries and government services shall be responsible. Proposals for Decisions on the planning of State real estate management for other public authorities for 2018 and 2019 The procedure for adopting real estate management plans provides for the Government to send a plan on the management of the State's real estate to other State authorities on their proposal for adoption into the National Assembly. For the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Public Administration gathered action plans and proposals for decisions for other public authorities and sent them to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which it then forwarded to the National Assembly. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the Ministry of Public Administration has received the following proposals for decisions on action plans by other state authorities: for 2018 for the State Audit Commission, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman of Human Rights of the Republic of Slovenia, the Advocate of the principle of equality and the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. For 2019, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Financial implications for the state budget. Taking into account the new real estate management plans submitted by the State in the preparation of the 2018 State budget, other state authorities are planning in 2018 to purchase movable assets for the use of EUR 138 000 of state budget resources and are planning an income of EUR 17 000 based on real estate availability. Taking into account the real-estate management plans submitted in the preparation of the 2019 State Budget, other state-owned bodies plan to purchase movable property in 2019 for the use of EUR 283 000 in state budget resources, and plan a real-estate income of EUR 102 000 955. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The motions for resolutions were addressed by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Representatives of the executive branch of the Authority, Members and Members of Parliament have a very nice greeting. The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 58th emergency meeting. 11. 2017 considered a proposal for a decree on the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds submitted by the Government under Article 13(3) of the Real Estate Act. In a supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration said that the proposal for a decision was adopted on the basis of paragraphs 2 and 5 and the other articles of the Real Estate Act and of the Self-Governmental Local Communities in order to submit a plan for the management of immovable property for consideration by the National Assembly, together with the draft budget. Plan of management of real estate: plan of acquisition of real estate, disposal of land, availability of buildings and parts of buildings, availability of land with the building, acquisition of movable property, availability of movable property and so on. It takes into account the real estate management plan and the real estate management plan, and in 2018, the proposalr plans for some more than €85 million in real estate sales revenue and, on the other hand, plans to purchase some over €200 million in assets during the same period. He noted that in the work where the financial implications relate to the projected increase in the revenue of the State budget, the financial implications are indicative, which will depend on the performance or real estate of the planned income. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said in her presentation of the legal opinion that the PSC had announced the editing of the text prior to publication in the Official Journal, since the last amendment to this Rules of Procedure should be mentioned in the preamble to the publication of the Rules of Procedure. A comment on the annex was also made. On the basis of a written proposal from SMC, Desus and SD, the Committee adopted its amendment to Table 3. The proposed amendment takes into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, the proposal for a decision on the State's real estate management plan for public administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies, public funds are in line with the provisions of Article 13, paragraph 1, of the Real Estate Act and the self-government of local communities. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft decree. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a decree is prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in which the amendment is also incorporated. The amended proposal for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u64	The Real Property Act of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities and the Real Estate Regulation of the State and the Self-Governmental Local Communities constitute the legal basis for issuing an annual decision on the real estate management plan. The owners of assets owned by the Republic of Slovenia shall draw up each year a plan of movable and immovable property intended for alienation and, at the same time, a plan for the acquisition of assets. Proposals for action shall be drawn up by ministries for their needs and the needs of bodies in their composition as well as for public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds in their field of work, the General Secretariat of the Government for their needs and the needs of government services, the Ministry of Public Administration for administrative units and the Ministry of Justice for judicial bodies. In New Slovenia, from year to year, we find that actual property management plans are really only about collecting proposals or the wishes of individual applicants and not about the real property that the country needs for its operations. In this year's proposals, we can see that the Government is planning much more purchases than sales. In our view, the plan of estrangement of movable and immovable property or rental is too modest to take into account the fact that it is actually an excess of assets. We would expect such assets to be sold or leased to an economy or individuals who could manage it more effectively. The government often cannot even provide adequate means for regular maintenance, which is often the case in real estates that have the status of a cultural monument. For such real estates, not only is the listing of the planned disposition justified but it is necessary to prevent their deterioration. In New Slovenia, we have repeatedly called on the Government to reform the real property management strategy by making it more economical or economical and, above all, more transparent. The priority should also be given to the activation of the existing housing fund, in favour of young families who do not have the opportunity to get to their homes today, even though they are residential dwellings that are intended to address the housing needs of public officials and civil servants, this does not mean that they can be empty and unoccupied for a long time. If the State urgently needs them, then as a good host it should also give them up in accordance with its human resources policy. In the absence of such a need, however, they should be transferred to the Housing Fund as a vehicle for the implementation of the national housing policy. We know that many of these apartments are in poor condition because they are unoccupied and uncontained. That the country is a bad owner also shows the premises on Beethoven Street in Ljubljana, which are owned by the Republic of Slovenia and are still empty, unfortunately this is not the only case. In any case, the state should be a more responsible owner and the possession of the property should not only be planned but also realized. Even in 2014, realisation of real estate was successful in only 5,24 % of the targets outlined and only 3 % of the assets available in the real estate plan. In the meantime, there were up to 30% of the real estate acquired free of charge. The implementation in 2015 and 2016 was slightly better, but still insufficient. The implementation of these plans depends on the budget available during the year. In Novi Slovenije we also advocate that each individual real estate manager assumes responsibility, both with regard to the classification of individual assets in the list of planned assets and also with regard to the determination of the method of availability, especially in the case of sales, as well as for the determination of the indicative value of individual movable or immovable property. At the same time, we are also counting on effective control of the individual’s exercise by the Court of Auditors. In view of the above, in New Slovenia we will not oppose the motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you for your word and a nice hello again. Today we are considering a total of 12 decisions on the real-estate management plans. The decisions relate to the availability of movable and immovable property for all State bodies, administrations, courts, the Court of Auditors, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and all other institutions. As we point out practically in every consideration of these decisions, it is still not clear what the purpose of these discussions is. Not in the sense that the right side of the opposition and the coalition are often asked that they are unnecessary. In Levika, we think it is right and necessary that, together with the budgets, we also consider plans to deal with real property. The problem with these decisions is that they are completely opaque, intransparency, unreadable, and that there is virtually nothing we can do to help each other, even in the work where he talks about real estate. It is a list of all properties that the authorities are supposed to buy or sell, and from this list virtually nothing can be found. It is not possible to understand the reason for the purchase or sale of a property, nor any real estate. If we were to find out which properties we are dealing with, we would have to look for reasons for purchase or sale on a partial basis and in orthophotos to find out what this property represents, and we would not have found any reason to buy or sell it. Another problem with these decisions is their overblownness and poor realization. Realisation, for example for 2015, was 28.6% and in 2014 only 5% were purchased and only 3% were sold. Such a low reality is completely incomprehensible, even in the fact that the Minister should pay particular attention in this mandate to the proper treatment of real property. As it is said, we are not most convinced in Levica of the purpose of dealing with these documents. For this reason, the Ministry has already, I think, for the third or fourth time, proposed changes in this area. If the purpose of this debate is to exercise control over the management of real property, which is certainly part of the consideration of the budget, then please let these documents be prepared so that this control can actually be carried out. The plans shall contain at least a description of the properties and the reasons for their sale or purchase. However, the implementation report should contain reasons why the envisaged sales or purchases have not been realised, so that we can understand why the realisation in one year was 5 or 3 or 20 %, as it was in previous years. If we do not have these basic data with which to generate at least a picture of what the country is doing with its movements and properties, then it is really pointless to deal with these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Koleša will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u68	Mr Vice-President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its meeting without a vote against the Decision on the State's real estate management plan for State administrations, judicial authorities, public institutions, public economic institutions, public agencies and public funds for 2018 and 2019, as well as decisions or plans for the management of real property for other public bodies not covered by the said Decision, namely, the State Audit Commission, the State Council, the National Assembly, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Court of Auditors and the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman of Human Rights and the Advocate for the principle of equality. The meeting took place almost without discussion of the members and members of the Committee. Members who have agreed to the floor have pointed out that it is pointless for the National Assembly to decide on the purchase of special acts, such as one vehicle for the Constitutional Court or the purchase of an apparatus for the measurement of vision in the Slovenian Army, and have therefore taken the initiative to amend the legislation in force. In the SMC Group of Members, we agree with such opinions. It was also noted on-the-spot because the financial implications relate to the projected increase in the revenues of the State sales budget, depending on the performance or on the realisation of the planned sales procedures. We would like to draw our attention to the fact that the National Assembly has been deciding on such acts for 10 years and that so far there have been no formal amendments by Members. By 2007, the plans had been part of the country's budget, and this year, at the proposal of the then Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, a law had been passed which had also introduced a stand-alone decision on the country's annual real estate plans of more than EUR 300,000 per year for public administrations and judicial authorities. Then the National Assembly, with the mandate of the Pahor's Government and the Minister of Public Administration, Mrs Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, went on to decide on the movements and, in the light of greater transparency, passed a law that set the 10,000 euro limit for real property management plans. This means that the National Assembly must also decide whether, for example, a service vehicle or a 10 - year - old diesel - powered Astra with 260,000 kilometres used by the State Audit Commission is so long - term that it has to sell it and buy a new vehicle because of the increasing maintenance costs. All in the light of greater transparency, these and countless other proposals were adopted by the Committee without comment. The fact is that the current regime of handling the real estate is rigid and completely inadequate. This is also known by the Government, which has included the adoption of a new law on the real estate of the State and the self-governance of local communities in the normative programme for this year. The law has been in public debate since last year. We therefore rightly expect the Government to send a bill on the parliamentary bench this year. We welcome the proposed solutions in our Group of Members and support them, as decision-making is passed on to the Government. However, the plans of action shall be supplemented quarterlyly by 31 March, 30 June and 30 September for the current year. This arrangement is intended for more real planning. However, the government or state authorities will be able to respond more quickly and without administrative complications to the current market situation or to changes in their actual needs. Otherwise, we will support the decisions on the real property plan of the country, which is 11 in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Well-known students of the Nova Gorica School Center and respected colleagues! The Real Estate Act and the Self-Governmental Local Communities provides that the real estate management plan shall be adopted or submitted for adoption by the National Assembly together with the budget. On the basis of proposals by real estate managers, therefore, the revenues from the sale of real estate and movable property in 2018 are estimated to be EUR 85.8 million and EUR 17.5 million for 2019. On the other hand, the purchase of real estate and movable property would require a total of €21.1 million in 2018 and €131.2 million in 2019. In summary, EUR 201.1 million is planned in 2018 for the purchase of real estate and movable property, which means that we will spend 22% more money than in 2017. Moreover, sales of real estate and movable property are planned to reach EUR 85.8 million in 2018, which means 130% more than in 2017. I ask myself here, and you too, my dear colleagues, whether this is true or whether it is merely a pious wish and we will see the circus again at the end of the year 5% of the reality. I would like to point out that our party supports proposals that go in the direction of acquisition and asset management in terms of good governance. In this light, all state-owned property managers should also act. Notwithstanding the fact that it is likely that it is only reasonable to plan the sale and purchase of immovable and movable property at the same time as the budget, the very non-realisation or low percentage of the legal transactions carried out on the other hand indicate a lack of rules in force. We can see from the latest report on real estate management plans that realisation has been achieved in a very low percentage according to the expected value criterion. On some items, as I mentioned earlier, we also see less than 5% of the realisation. The non-implementation of the State's real estate plans also means a low realisation of the current budget, but in that part relating to real property. After all this, of course, we are also asked about the reasons for such a low reality. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that in all these cases it is also an objective and subjective responsibility. As long as no one is responsible for the disposal of state property, the situation will not change, and these decisions on the real estate management plan will only be some of the milder thirstys when we adopt the budget, only that it is. We also draw attention to the report of the Court of Auditors of June 2017 by the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Court of Auditors noted that the efficiency of the behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ministries of real estate is ineffective. The Ministry further notes that the records of dwellings do not provide a basis for the effective management of dwellings, namely, that the records are incomplete about dwellings and tenants, as well as data on housing costs. It further notes that the Ministry's census was not carried out on the basis of the relevant documentation and cannot therefore be relied upon. Now, be careful, "there are also apartments in the register of basic assets that are not owned by the Republic of Slovenia and, on the other hand, there are no apartments owned by the Republic of Slovenia". All of this shows that the country is a very bad master of its assets. We have already received information from the Ministry of Public Administration in 2015 that ministries are actively considering amending the Real Estate Act, but of course we have not come up with any more than this active thinking. Finally, as long as the real estate plans of the country are implemented so low and no one will answer for them until a change of legislation is announced and until the state has accurate records of its property, the purpose of the preparation and adoption of such plans is, of course, questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u72	Vice President, thank you for your word. All together in the hall, hello! The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall have the power to adopt plans for the management of the State's real estate together with the draft budget. We are wondering whether this is actually the topic for discussion at the National Assembly. The debate on the labour market itself has shown that it is likely that these issues would lead to a change in the legislative field. Today, however, we are considering quite a few proposals for resolutions for 2018 and 2019, and I will not list them because the Vice-President did so thoroughly when he listed the agenda items that we are currently considering. In the Desus Group, we believe that the plans are carefully and thoughtfully prepared or designed, but they still sting in the eyes of quite a few high amounts in obtaining the real property of the country. We agree that the provision of the military and the modernisation of their equipment are essential. We said we need an army in this country and if we have one, we also need to equip it properly, train it and so on. We also welcome health gains, but as last year, we need to re-emphasize that we want more resources in the social field. Of course, we welcome any new acquisition in retirement homes or for the elderly, but we do note the situation of our elderly citizens, who would still urgently need more resources for a more dignified, better, and especially more favourable, life in age. That is why we appeal to the competent ministry to implement the forecast of its plans for investments in social security institutions and homes for the elderly; 7 million for investments is foreseen for the period 2017 to 2020. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposed resolutions, hoping that our country will be more social and focused each year on regulating the life situation of every individual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded our joint introductory presentation and the presentation of the views of the groups on the proposals for resolutions. No amendment was adopted by the home working body, except for the motion for a decree under agenda item 8, and therefore no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. The amendments to the supplementary motion for a decree under point 8 of the agenda have not been tabled. The decision on the motions for decisions will be made tomorrow from 9 a.m. on, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. By this I interrupt the agenda items from number 8 to including 19. We're moving to 20. Agenda item — Proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2018 and 2019, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. She's not here. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Vice-President Vojka Shergan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Friends and colleagues, hello! Report on the Proposal for a Law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 84th emergency meeting. 11. 2017 as a parent working body, the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019 submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The Committee took note of the opinion of the State Council, the opinion of the Association of Slovene municipalities, the opinion of the Community of Slovene municipalities, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and the letters of the Working Group. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, amendments to the draft law to each article were tabled by the SDS Group, the Left Group, the Coalition Group of Members of Parliament and the Group of Members of Parliament. At the meeting itself, a proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 60, which was adopted by the Committee after discussion, was also tabled. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the Minister of Finance highlighted those provisions of the draft law, which are substantially amended by the applicable law on the implementation of budgets in the Republic of Slovenia for 2017 and 2018. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented the written opinion of the Service and explained in the introduction that the comments made by the Service in the written opinion to each article were duly taken into account by means of the amendments tabled by the coalition groups, with the exception of the comment to Article 56. In a short discussion, the Minister was asked whether the proposed solutions provided financial and legal conditions for the employment of 20 new labour inspectors by the end of 2018. The Minister explained that the proposed solutions provide additional employment for those direct budget users where the greatest staffing needs are expressed. In view of the staffing needs recorded, the decision of the Government on the actual number of inspectors will be adopted after 1 January 2018, when all requests are transparent, otherwise, as provided by the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. With regard to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on Article 56, the Minister explained that the municipalities had expressed the wish and the need for budgets for 2018 and 2019 to be adopted this year, not as a commitment, but as an option. In addition, a new Law on Public Finance is being prepared to translate the European Directive on the European Semester into the Slovenian acquis, which provides for two-year financial plans or budgets for all four public finances. This novel will therefore include a permanent solution to the regular adoption of two-year budgets at municipal level. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered all amendments and has adopted only amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of the Committee to Article 60. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u76	Good-bye! Given that the Socialists will not support the budget, we will not support the law by which this budget is to be implemented. For a simple reason, because the elephants in the budget policy on the one hand are financed by working people, on the other hand, the expenditure of the budget of interests is not taken into account by those same workers. I am in this session, or have already told Levica many times, that the tax policy from which the budget is fed is unfair. It is unfair, however, because it places a much greater burden on working people, it is called workers, pensioners and the unemployed, rather than holders of capital and property of great value. That's not what I'm saying. Following this data, I am acting on the basis of official statistics. These official statistics also show that Slovenia has one of the lowest taxes on capital and property of great value. As long as budgetary policy protects the interests of capital owners and assets of greater value until it makes use of the reserves to increase the country's income, we will, of course, oppose it. At this meeting, we repeat all the time that the Government should make all available resources available to improve the situation in health and social institutions. And we will never agree that some polyficial commitments to NATO and the European Union have priority over the well-being of our people. Nor do we sit on the excuses of the coalition MPs, how would they want to spend more money on health care, social protection, but that this money is not. Who says there's no money? Ladies and gentlemen, where are you going to get 1.2 billion euros to build two battalion groups for NATO? Where you will take €207 million for the purchase of new patriots if you say there is no money. Yes, you will take it from people who pay taxes, and you will spend it on weapons that have nothing to do with the defence of Slovenia. But this money will be lost forever for prosperity and development. To tell you the truth, I have to tell you that ZIPRS is overcoming one positive thing, by allowing the employment of 20 or even more new labour inspectors. Well, this is a measure that is in the direct interest of working people. I am not just thinking about employees and self-employed people who are increasingly turning to work inspection when employers are violating their labour rights. I also have in mind all pensioners living in nursing homes and other citizens who are in one way or another in relation to social security institutions. The Labour Inspectorate is also responsible for the protection of their rights, and I therefore expect that supervision in this area will also be strengthened. Although employment restrictions in the public sector in this law are not as strict as they were in Zuyf, they still cause one serious problem. As you probably all know, there are very many cleaners, security guards, other workers working in hospitals, universities, in government bodies that are not employed there, but are employees of private subcontractors who are hired by these public institutions. And these workers are in a worse position than if they were employed in the public sector where they should otherwise be. And there are known cases where cleaners who were cleaning the premises of the Labour Inspectorate, see, and even one of the ministries, had to work in black. Therefore, we are proposing an amendment that would allow public institutions to employ these workers directly again, thereby providing them with decent working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u78	Nice greetings again to the Minister, the Vice President and everyone who's here today! The Law on the implementation of the budget is a technical law to enable the implementation of the budget of the current and following years. Actually, it's not supposed to be anything special. For many years it has been the fact that we include and include things that don't belong there, but that's the way it is. Our parliamentary group will not support this law unless there is a miracle and you support the pension-related amendment. Then, of course, we change our minds. The fact is that the situation in the country today is good, significantly better than it was a few years ago, and the fact is that the country has significantly more money. We're talking about billions and more on an annual level. And what has the government of Mira Cerar managed to do with this billion, or even more than a billion? Health care is to be put on its knees, to be maintained in the life of anti-crisis measures, and after many years we are talking again about whether private education should be financed in the same way as public education. So we're on our way to getting public education on your knees. These are the facts. On the proposal of the Budget Implementation Act, we have tabled two amendments in our parliamentary group. The first refers to the financing of municipalities and the higher average. The second relates to pensioners and the payment of the regression. To say the truth, pensioners are still subject to certain anti-crisis measures. They still won't get as much as they should under the basic law. And yeah, we're talking about two cupcakes of ice cream. I'm listening to criticism of how we haven't done enough in those really hard times for the retired. Dear colleagues and colleagues, but if you don't have bread, it's hard to talk about ice cream. Today we have bread and more so that we can talk about the whole portion and not just two cupcakes of ice cream. It would be more ambitious to draw up the budget itself and, above all, to put an end to the austerity measures. Yes, in the past we did not have, we did not have, today there are billions and more revenue in the budget, but you have decided that Slovenian pensioners will still receive certain savings. Why, you're probably the only one who knows. The numbers show otherwise. The fact is that more money is provided for pensions in the approved budget than you need. 80 million will be reduced by this transfer. You've cut 80 million pension funds and made them available for other purposes. Of course, your right and your responsibility, but it's time to squander the species and return 20 million to the pensioners, you'll still be able to give them to another 60. In fact, it is sad that in some way we all boast together about what we have provided for the pensioners. We didn't give them anything. We gave them what the law gave them. We are still talking about pensions, as stated in the Budget Implementation Act, on pensions up to EUR 450. Retirement up to 450 euros! But some of us can even imagine how to spend a month with 450 euros!? A great achievement is expected to be given an annual supplement of €410 in one year to those who receive a pension lower than €450 and a single cent. As I said before, we will not support the marriage in our parliamentary group unless there is a miracle associated with the annual pensioner allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ms Vojka Shergan will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Act on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, which monitors the budget each year and is essentially intended for the implementation of the budget, this time for 2018 and 2019. The contents of this Act are practically similar every year and are laid down by the Public Finance Act. So today we are considering a law that is necessary and a direct condition that the budgets we discussed yesterday can begin to be implemented. In short, I would like to point out only those provisions of the draft law that are substantially amended in the light of the current Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, namely, firstly, the opening of the new budget lines is also possible during the financial year, secondly, the addition of new dedicated revenue, which is determined by the material legislation adopted during this year, thirdly, as regards the municipalities, this time the content of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget is slightly different from that of the content so far; in this meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Law on the Financing of the Communities will also be considered, and therefore certain content that have been regulated so far in the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets will be transferred to the Systematic Law on the Financing of the Communities. In today's law, however, the proposal to set the average for 2018 and 2019 remains. Unfortunately, there was no agreement with the congregations this year. However, the government has also ensured a gradual release of restrictions in the area of municipal funding as it has proposed an average of €551 for 2018, which is 15 euro more than is currently in force. For 2019, the proposed average is EUR 558. In addition, 6 % of total eligible expenditure, 3 % for reimbursement and 3 % for grants is provided for co-financing the investments of municipalities from the State budget in the coming years. For 2019, the proposed average is the highest in all periods so far. In this way, the average is also consistent with the Law on the Financing of Communities, which refers to the fact that 54% of the income collected in the previous year should be made available to the municipalities for payment of legal obligations. Fourthly, it is possible to increase the overall staffing plan for all direct budgetary users, with a view to addressing the most acute human resources problems in all areas. Fifthly, it is possible to move employees between indirect and direct budgetary users. Sixthly, in the area of pension protection, the possibility of extraordinary harmonisation of pensions for the regular harmonisation of pensions is not required in the ZIPRS because the system law is in force. However, in accordance with the mandate given by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, this Act also provides for the amount of the regression received by pensioners in 2018 according to the amount of their pensions or the amount of their income. The annual allowance will be paid at the level of the one before the entry into force of the ZUJF, i.e. in 2011 at EUR 140 million. And for the seventh time, the provisions on the implementation of financial instruments are being supplemented. The law therefore contains, as it is said, provisions necessary for the smooth implementation of the budgets in 2018 and 2019, and we will therefore support it in the SMC Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Ms Susana Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members, Members, Minister, all present, welcome! Together with the consideration of budgets in the National Assembly, we also adopt an accompanying law on the implementation of the budget each year. This time we have 2018 and 2019 ahead of us. This is a law in which we can find very different content which, in one way or another, has an impact on the budget. The law before us, according to past years, contains the following changes. The possibility of opening new budget lines during the year is given. Some new dedicated arrivals are added to Article 21. The prohibition of employment in public administration shall be lifted with the possibility of an additional increase of 0,7 % in the number of employees allowed. The amount of the annual pension allowance in 2018 is fixed and provides for extraordinary harmonisation of pensions in April next year. An article is added to enable municipalities to adopt a two-year budget during the electoral year and to delete provisions limiting the expenditure of the state budget relating to the financing of municipalities. The Budget Implementation Act also sets the average amount to finance primary spending, which is expected to amount to EUR 551 in 2018 and EUR 558 in 2019. Although the average is increasing, according to the congregations, it is not sufficient to cover statutory tasks. The outlook for economic growth is optimistic for the coming years. UMAR Slovenia forecasts 4.4% of economic growth for 2018. As a result, the Government releases austerity measures, but only for individual groups of citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that it is time to do something for all citizens. This is why we have proposed an amendment to Article 69, which is being adequately extended to the value added tax rate and to the specific provision for tolling. At the time of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, the value added tax was increased in the Budget Implementation Act, from 20 to 22 % and from 8.5 to 9%. The increase in VAT rates was considered a temporary measure at the time of adoption, but the Government of Mira Cerar turned it into a permanent measure in 2015. The value added tax is a distinctly a social tax, which is why its rise has affected all citizens, especially those with the lowest income. In the Slovenian Democratic Party with the amendment, we propose that the value added tax should be reduced to a pre-increased rate of 8.5% and 20%. We also propose that tollholders with dependent family members be reduced by 25% for each member, which means that those who maintain 4 or more family members are entitled to the payment of the blame. This is a measure that would help families with multiple children in particular. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are tying our support for the law in support of our amendment, which means, of course, that if our amendment is supported, we will support the law if not, we will oppose the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Uroš Prikl will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister! Following yesterday's much gruesome or graphic debate on the 2018 and 2019 budget, today we have before us a law on the implementation of the budgets for these two years, which we will, of course, unanimously support in our Group. This is, in some ways, a logical continuation, since the implementation of ZIPRS is a prerequisite for the implementation of budgets and thus for their implementation. Introductoryly, let me mention that next year the reconciliation of pensions will be 2 times. Why am I saying this? First of all, at the beginning of the year after the on-board system PPIZ, secondly, this is important, it will be in April, this will be an extraordinary harmonisation, and the pension will increase again in the following year. With this in the Desus Group, we are relatively satisfied, thus fulfilling our pre-election promises of a gradual increase in pensions, both real and nominal. These may not seem large at first sight, but they are a series of small steps that are increasing the base or base on which further increases are based. Once again, on this occasion, let me remind you that we are still moving within a fiscal rule, which was said to be a victory for all of us at the time of his writing in the Constitution. We must respect this important commitment, within which we have already negotiated in the Desus Group or in the Desus party when writing a coalition contract, agreed to raise annual growth in gross social product by more than 2.5% each year, and there will also be a time to reconcile pensions. To be honest, at the time some smiled, they looked at us a little strangely, but only we believed in our economy and in the measures taken many times, which were a difficult experience. The result of all this is high economic growth. It is important to mention, above all, exports, which are strongly supported by the operation, or, in particular, if you wish, by economic diplomacy. All of this enables, for the first time, the payment of contributions that fill both the pension and the health allowance, and for the second time, on an annual basis, the coordination of pensions. I must say, in a way, we regret that there is no consensus on the averages between the municipalities and the government. In the Desus Group, we are aware that there are many financial and other problems in the congregations, so we should relieve them of certain unnecessary tasks, obligations, many red tape nonsense. They may be helped at least by being able to propose a budget now even for a year outside the mandate period for which the municipal council was elected. Of course, I also expect further arrangements and arrangements between the municipalities and representatives of the country. We also support a provision that will eliminate the total ban on employment in the state administration and add the possibility of increasing the number of employees by 0.7 per cent, which is due to a continuous reduction in the number of employees in the state administration authorities in the past years. Of course, we hope that this will promote intra-public mobility, which will provide professional staff where only they are urgently needed, and thus solve the problem of sub-employment in the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate. The annual allowance, as has already been said several times, will be paid together with the payment of the regular pension for the month of July, the end of July, in the five classes instead of in the pre-crisis two. Such a solution seems fairer to us in the Desus Group because those who have lower pensions receive more regression, higher amount than if only two classes were determined. In Desus, we have already said many times that we are particularly sensitive to those target groups that are particularly at risk of social exclusion, we think, we firmly believe that this is the case. At the conclusion, as has already been said, we will unanimously support the implementation of the 2018 and 2019 Budget Implementation Act in our Group of Members, as the adoption of this Act will allow the implementation of the 2018 and 2019 Budget, which we find sufficiently ambitious and provide the optimal basis for the implementation of all social programmes and for the continuation of the economic projects initiated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, where we will support the draft law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2018 and 2019, as this is the legal basis for the implementation of the budgets for those two years and, of course, if the budgets are not implemented, we can really talk about the extremely serious damage that this would cause. Given that the Law on the implementation of the budget is linked to each year, however, this differs slightly from the others in terms of content. These differences are mainly reflected in the abolition of the total ban on employment in public administration, while an additional possibility is offered to increase the number of employees by 0.7 per cent. It is also important to include the possibility of promoting so-called public sector mobility. This is a transfer of employees from direct to direct users, which can also make it easier within this public administration sector to provide staff with the required specific knowledge. The next important provision, which differs from previous years, is also a provision setting out the amount of the annual allowance to be paid to pensioners in 2018. However, extraordinary harmonisation of pensions is also envisaged in April. An article has also been added which allows municipalities to adopt a two-year budget during the electoral year. These are somehow key differences compared to other annual budget implementation laws. The annual budget stand is coordination with municipalities on the average amount of €551 in 2018 to finance the appropriate spending of €551, which is around €15 more than last year, and €558 for 2019. This is because the Law on the implementation of the budget in determining the average, in fact, is contrary, we can say, even with the Constitution, because the Constitution speaks of the need for municipalities to provide resources with which they have their own resources. This ensures the independence of local self-government, as under the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, they would have an average of €609 in 2018 and €616 in 2019. This is one of the important issues which, of course, is difficult to resolve also because it has a basis in the Law on the Financing of Communities, which states that the annual amount of the average is determined in the law on the implementation of budgets. This is certainly one of those topics that will be needed, for it shows that this will not be regulated in this law, in the future to be regulated in a way that actually provides local communities with adequate resources and also self-sustainment in planning after consumption. This is one of those points on which we can conclude that the Council of State has also given a negative opinion on the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, and it is also right that we are aware that these provisions, which we are also introducing into the law in a manner where the Government with representative associations of municipalities does not reach an agreement under the law governing the financing of municipalities, include in the draft budget the average set by the Government. That's how it's gonna be written in this law. But it is right that we also have before our eyes a warning from the Legal and Legislative Service, which has just pointed out that it interferes with the resources for the autonomous financing of municipalities. However, as I said in the introduction, we will support this because, of course, in the event of non-admission, there will be difficult remedial consequences in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! This bill repeals, inter alia, the total ban on new employment in the state administration. The possibility of an increase of 0.7 per cent in the number of employees allowed is added. The government, however, has cited a steady decline in the number of employees in the public administrations in recent years. In New Slovenia, we are disappointed that the Fruit Government does not first distribute growth forecasts among taxpayers by lowering the tax burden for everyone, but rather by promoting employment in the state administration, rather than improving the efficiency of the administration, the Mira Cerar government decides to simply increase the number of employees. At the same time, in its report on Slovenia 2016, the European Commission notes that Slovenia is low in governance in public administration. In particular, the Commission points out that the executive capacity of the Slovenian public administration is well below the EU average. According to a survey by the Bertelsmann Foundation, executive capacity in Slovenia is also well below the OECD average in 2016. Even after an analysis by the European Central Bank on the functioning of public institutions, Slovenia has not shown itself. On the basis of this index of efficiency of public systems, Slovenia is one of the worst ranked countries in the analysis of the European Central Bank. Instead of pursuing structural reforms to improve the functioning of the state administration, the government of Mira Cerar prefers to promote only new employment within it. The work of the official should not be focused on the question of why something is not possible, but on the question of how we are going to do something. On the other hand, the government only solves this problem with new employment. Who will be the new employees, we can only speculate. In fact, six months from now, we have elections, and it is certain that the new employees will be those who will be compatible with the existing government coalition. The bill also slightly changes the annual pension allowance regime, which is increasing by 10 euros, and adds to the harmonisation of pensions by 1.1%. This increase will only improve the situation of pensioners for a small amount of time. This represents only a drop into the sea for our pension system and does not necessarily bring about any necessary systemic changes. If we are to secure decent pensions in the long run, we need to modernise the pension system today. That is why in Novi Slovenija we have already presented a proposal for pension modernisation with the introduction of a three-pillar pension system, which is based on the flow pillar, the investment pillar and the voluntary pillar. Such a system would provide at least EUR 617 for each pensioner with 40 years of work. Why 617? Why is this our starting point? Because this is, according to the calculations of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the threshold of poverty at the level of the month. The new legislation removes all provisions that have limited the expenditure of the state budget related to the financing of municipalities in recent years. The deleted provisions are expected to be transposed in the Law on the Financing of Communities, which is in the process of adoption in the National Assembly. However, the proposed law, in accordance with the law governing the financing of municipalities, remains a provision on the level of the average. The average shall be EUR 551 for the financial year 2018 and EUR 558 for the financial year 2019. Despite the increase in the average in Nova Slovenije, we warn that Slovenian municipalities are still undernourished. This is also recalled by the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia. Even though municipalities in Slovenian society are doing invaluable work at local level because of their knowledge of specific problems, the government does not listen to them as much as we, the Christian Democrats, would expect. Because of this and because of these shortcomings, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 54 and the amendment of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 60 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. This amendment is proposed at the initiative of the Union of Free Trade Unions, the Confederation of Trade Unions of the PERGAM and the Labour Advisory. Why is he going? As I have already said in my position, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, it is necessary to allow so-called insourcing, it is said that state authorities can directly employ cleaners, security guards and other workers who are now being outsourced to various subcontractors, these workers in these companies are employed for worse wages and worse working conditions than if they were employed directly, which in principle they should be. We know or you know, colleagues and colleagues, that in recent years outsourcing in the public sector has passed all the limits of common sense. Everything started with an excuse to save money. And what is the result? That the situation of affected workers has deteriorated significantly, while the quality of the work done has also declined. And under the line there was often not even a declared financial objective, of course because the external operator of the account is commissioning someone to work there employees, and then it happens that outsourcing is even more expensive than if these employees worked in some institution directly. In our opinion, that is the opinion of the proposers of this amendment, the majority of outsourcing operators are essentially, not even those who would provide the service, but in fact only provide the labour force, and in an illegal way. Instead of concluding an intervention contract with an institution, the user enters into a service contract. Why do institutions decide to do that? In order not to take account of collective agreements. And here is the catch – collective contracts apply only to agency employees, which is, for example, cleaning agencies and various security services, of course, not formally. In short, already at the start, workers working through outsource companies and services are in a worse position than if they were employed directly at the institution where they work. And there are also frequent cases where there are outsourced workers working with a user while also doing the same work as those directly employed by the institution. Of course, those outsourced for the same not only comparable, for the same, identical work are paid less and performed under worse working conditions. Even more problematic, however, is the grave violation of labour rights in operators than we have witnessed. You've all heard of, like, cleaning service for Manicoma. Well, Manicom is known for its violations of workers' rights and non-taxation, but it has received €23 million from the country in the last 15 years. Thus, despite the fact that they do not pay taxes, even though they are heavily violating workers' rights and exploiting employees, the country has taken them to work after various instances and has allocated them €23 million. It's just one case. I will not argue that he is representative of all outsourced cleaning services, security services and anything else, but the basic fact is that the priors are in a worse position than the ones working through the intermediary already in the start. In any case, outsourcing has been taken forever and everywhere, wherever, at any time by a method of social dumping, in order to lower and reduce the protection of collective agreements and the protection of organised work through the folding and through the back door. The problem with the proposed law, which we are currently addressing, namely the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, is that it still limits the number of employees in the public administration authorities and thus prevents injustices that occur or have occurred under the pretext of saving these workers. Thus, even if the management of a public instance is willing to directly employ these workers, they must not be obliged because their hands are bound by today’s law. To correct this, the socialists propose two measures with our amendment. For the first time, when a subcontractor so gravely violates the labour rights that the contract between him and the State authority ceases to apply automatically, that authority should allow the affected workers to work directly with him. Thus, if the employer violates the labour rights, plays the country, works with the state authorities at the same time, and this is established, the contract between that State authority and this outsource service will automatically cease to apply. And who's gonna pull the trigger here for a little while? You think he's a capitalist? Of course not, but those workers who would lose this job. We therefore demand that for all such cases it be possible for the public authority to take such workers to work and to work directly with them so that they do not end up on the road due to the mistakes of their own bosses. Secondly, we propose cases where there are no more serious infringements, that the State authority open up the possibility that the Insurrection Authority, that is to say, employ workers if it has sufficient financial resources, which is the path which has been decided again in recent years, in itself, by an increasing number of bodies, in particular those in the wider public sector. And I'm only going to give three concrete examples of good practice to see that this is happening and that it can. The first case was fought by the Slovenian High School Union two years ago at the Faculty of Social Sciences. There the cleaners worked through the infamous Manicoma, as I had previously said to the worker, the taxpayer and so on, well, they are newly employed in college directly, which is certainly a positive development. A similar story, a month ago at the Faculty of Philosophy. Again, the Slovenian High School Union was involved, and again, the cleaners were those who were outsourced and are now employed by the new faculty leadership, a few years ago, the then management of this cleaning company outsourced to a private company, which at the beginning of which, yes, provided about the same working conditions, and then took over by another subcontractor company and then went down, the contracts extended for a few months, etc. Personally, this development at the Faculty of Philosophy is especially heartening to me. I don't know if you know, but when we met a few years ago, one of our demands was also that outsourcing be discontinued and that these cleaners, the security guards, were hired directly in college. And I'll tell you another experience from that time. We've been in touch with these people, both security guards and cleaners during the ambush, but it's often happened that they couldn't talk about their situation, not in the college hallways, because they were afraid of how the outsourced employer would penalize them and discipline them. But then gradually, through some process, we began to identify and gain their trust, and they also gave us information about their working conditions. The pay is terrible. Now I hope this will be better. If I go from school to health. Here too are examples of good practices. If I quote the Minister of Health when she answered my question on 5 October, it is a good month ago. She said: “It is also clear from the annual reports of public hospitals that some non-health services have been transferred to external providers, such as cleaning, cooking, maintenance, washing, security and the like. However, some hospitals reintroduce this service because of lower costs or because of unsatisfactory performance and quality.’ End of quote. What I want to say is that, in short, outsourcing is first and foremost harmful for workers who have received it and who have pulled the shortest straw in this relationship, but it is also harmful for the public sector as a whole, because often these services are provided under conditions of poor quality, while the cost is often the same as if these people were directly employed. There are some positive examples of good practice due to the pressure of trade unions, but this good practice is entirely from the wider public sector, although the problem is also present in public authorities, but hospitals and universities have a little more free hands when employment takes place, and state authorities regulate the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, which we have here today. In Levica, we propose to adopt an exception in this area, which will allow, if you want, the correction of the injustices that have occurred to these workers in recent years, that is, workers without whom the state authorities could not function normally. To conclude, I would like here to invite the present parliamentary groups, representatives of the Ministry, to define themselves before our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Vraničnik Erman, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. The proposed amendment cannot be supported by the Government. Undoubtedly, the issue of rights or infringements of workers' rights is an issue that we must pay extreme attention to. We need to provide conditions or a way to detect, eliminate, and also sanction infringements. However, the solutions proposed do not offer this. They offer a way out for workers, but by reducing the standard of transparency of public sector employment and unequal treatment of workers in job search. Finally, with the solutions proposed, responsibility or consequences for infringements of the rights of the amendment workers shall be transferred from the one who actually violates the rules to the contracting authority. It expressly instructs the contracting authority to offer employees employment beyond the rules of the Labour Relations Act and beyond the rules of normal decision procedures necessary for transparent conclusion of labour relations. With regard to the possibility of additional employment, we give the resources the opportunity to apply the possibility of additional employment to themselves in accordance with their options and the specific situation in their department. However, I cannot agree with the thesis presented in one of the introductory presentations to address the inefficiencies of the state administration only through additional employment. We allow additional employment to be controlled, to a limited extent and where it turns out that there is a need to assume either new tasks or because of the collapse of the state administration in the past crisis years, which has led to a critical lack of qualified staff in certain segments. You have also addressed one of these issues in the National Assembly in connection with the work inspection, and you have discussed several times in the National Assembly security or border protection issues, and these are issues that we can address by proposing additional employment in the public administration. However, the issue of the effectiveness of the work of public servants must be addressed through organisational and managerial receptions, not by restricting or forcing them to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Madam Secretary, are you serious about outsourcing? Well, if some of the workers are exploited and working illegally, it's okay. But to get these workers to work, legalize their working relationship and grant them all rights, and that's not okay. You said that now in your position. That's what you said. You said that under the line, that's the truth of your answer. And go ahead. It is somehow permissible that administrations, management of public institutions, including public companies of the Luka Koper type, should look at the violation of workers' rights in their regions and not be responsible. I mean, if management can take, rent, outsourca some of its cleaning service, security, then it has to answer its decision, but not to wash hands now, yes, no, only the capitalist who actually runs the outsourced company is responsible, but management can wash hands peacefully, but it's nothing to blame. I mean, the user is just as responsible as the one who directly violates workers' rights. Pika.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u95	Madam Minister Mag. Matthew the Vranic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Please don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. But above all, you're not looking for subtopes in what I say, because I mean what I say. And my first argument was that in any way it was necessary to pay attention to violations of workers' rights and to sanction, detect and sanction them. However, I cannot accept the idea that the public authorities that decide to order services instead of hiring people must be responsible and the priorities must take over workers from among their employees without the proper procedures being carried out, and this is provided for by this amendment. The port of Koper, however, is something completely different, to which this article does not apply at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, chairman. Outsourced workers, so-called port service providers in Luka Koper, are structurally in an analogous position, such as outsourced security guards and cleaners in the public sector or in the wider public sector or in the state administration, as it does not matter. This is the same story of outsourcing as the same story of exorcising work and lowering labour law across the back door. We do not need in your answers, Madam Minister, to look for various subtons, because you have basically also repeated in your reply what I have said to your position in my first debate. So if some public office hires illegal outsourced workers, that's okay, but it's not okay for me to answer my decision. Here's one canyon of rights and responsibility that would only involve decisions that are lacking in your logic. But not to be too petty, I'd rather approach or try to approach the problem from another entry point. If not what we now propose in Levica, for which we have already taken up most of the mandate, what solution do you have for outsourced workers prepared in the Government? If you recognize this problem, how will you solve it? If I don't run and say why you haven't done it so far, I think it's more productive how we're going to solve this problem in half a year's time than we have left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 69 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Anybody want to talk? No, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, wow, I'm sorry. Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it is right for us to say something about this matter or say something myself, given that the proposal of an unrelated Member to change the distribution of the annual allowance of pensioners, I must say, however, that the amount proposed by the Government amounts to some 140 million euros, that the proposal made by the unrelated Members actually amounts to about 140 million. It is true that we obtained this information from the pension fund. In the proposal that we have drafted together in the government, it actually has 5 classes of division, of course the ZIPRS provides for this, but in the proposal prepared by unrelated Members, the amount is divided into two classes, so those with smaller pensions would get a little less, and those with higher pensions would get a little more. So we will not under any circumstances support this proposal. Perhaps even in my debate, I would like to highlight the debate or position of one of the parliamentary groups that said that in ZIPRS for 2018 and 2019 there will be a harmonisation of pensions of 1.1%, this is an extraordinary harmonisation, but I must say that there will probably be about 2.2% of additional regular reconciliation of pensions. There's so much to do with it. Now there may be something general that has somehow stabbed me, with regard to this possibility that the old composition of municipal councils will adopt budgets for the next term of office or budget for the following year, for the next term of office. I would say that it is not the most politically hygienic thing to say that a certain composition adopts a budget for the next period when there will be a completely different composition in the authority of the local community, but at a given time. If I were in the old composition of the municipal council, I must say that I would not suggest this to my colleagues and colleagues in the municipal council or to the mayor to prepare such a proposal. As regards employment, 0.7 % in public administration, I would like to point out the following. As a rule, the public administration should not be increased, but in any case it should somehow be rejuvenated. What goes naturally is said to be a natural outflow, replaced by young, more ambitious people, and essentially public administration should not increase and I am not too excited about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mag. Alenka Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Yes, much has been said in these two days about pensions, pension coordination, the payment of the annual allowance, but when we talk about numbers, we need to be precise and correct. Yes, the fact is, pensions will double this year, and I think that's a good thing, given that we have almost 5% of economic growth, you're satisfied that this is one percent twice, okay, okay, so you've made up your mind. The fact is, of course, it is not true that pensioners of the annual allowance will receive the same amount as in 2011; it can be a total amount, but 300,000 pensioners will get less than they received in 2011. Is that social justice or not? That's what you've decided. Of course it's your right and responsibility. I've told myself many times that I'd do something different. All pensioners with a pension of 550 euros and one cents receive less from the government proposal than from the amendment proposal, that is a fact. If pensioners with €550 are rich enough to get less than the law provides, fine. As I said, it's in the government's hands, it's on the coalition to decide how and what. Of course, it is right to say, whether you want to hear it or not, that today there is a lot more money in the country to have a billion and a half euros more, and you are boasting that you gave the pensioners so much as in 2011. Okay, okay, there's no problem, so you've made up your mind; people see it, people hear it, of course I can only beg and appeal. And I've already said I wouldn't do it on my own. The fact is, in those difficult times, pensions were not coordinated as they would have liked. The fact is that together we have managed to ensure that pensions have not been reduced, as in another European country. However, the fact is that today, as we are doing better, you could not have put an end to the austerity measures. It's the only thing I'm warning you about, and the only thing I'm going to warn you about in advance, but let's not. For the first time, it is not known what will be the pension base on which the regression will be calculated. Secondly, if I recall correctly, we are all proud together to have set the lowest so-called minimum pension, which will probably raise some of the pension base. And the third fact that more than half of pensioners will receive less than they received in 2011, I am talking about an annual allowance. These are facts and let's be precise about these things, of course, I said so, and it's in your hands to decide how much you give the pensioners. It would probably be useful to consider further to determine in this system law the amount of the annual allowance, so that we do not barter and beat each other on the chest, who provided the pensioners with. It's a follow-up thing. The question, however, if this is appropriate for all in the National Assembly, it is fine to shake the chest and tell what has been assured to the pensioners, although if I use an analogy from the past, then it is also due to Miro Cerar, who is most responsible for leading the government at this point, if I understand exactly what you are saying back. I appeal again, and I ask that this amendment be supported. It is not true that it costs nothing, Mr Jurša, it costs 20 million, it costs 21 million euros, it would cost a country or a state budget, it is a fact, but I think we can manage these 21 million. If you think it is too little to give pensioners more, I will be the first to sign this proposal and your amendment and vote for it. Only when we're operating on numbers, let's be precise.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much. And I don't want to have a word with my colleague, Alice Bratusek, but one thing is right to say is what's holding what's black on paper in white. Now I'm going to tell you what the real regression was in 2011. For pensions less than 412.54 euros was an annual allowance of 367.95 euros. However, those who had higher than 412.54 euros received a regression of 223.55 euros. Now I'm going to tell you how much more they're going to get, or they're going to get this year, and hopefully next year. Up to €430 pension €400, from €430.01 to €530 260 and €530 to €630 200 regress. Of course, we must say, including those who have even higher pensions, and they will receive €90 and €630 to €760. Once again, we have obtained information from the treasury, where we have been clearly told that the amount proposed by the Government is the same as proposed by the Alliance or the unrelated Member, Mrs Alenka Bratušek. Now I don't know if I missed or if it was possible to say otherwise, but I am sure that 1.1% of the reconciliation of pensions has been talked about, that is, in the case of extraordinary harmonisation, and 2.2% is foreseen for regular harmonisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself would have responded to the amendment, which our group leader has already said we cannot support. I would like to say another reason why Mrs Bratušek or her Group of Members, the Alliance's Group, cannot be supported, because it reminds us of Superhik of Alan Ford. Indeed, it is also happening here, so after this proposal, it would be taken to those of the poorest pensioners who have a pension of around €440, which would be given in the very 140 euro annual allowance to those who have a very high pension. In short, such a proposal is unacceptable to Desus, who advocates righteousness, even when it comes to low amounts. On the other hand, I must point out this — although I am always happy when political parties advocate for those people who do not have a strong influence in society, but, of course, have electoral votes — that, as a result, the most common thing that happens to us is that this advocacy for the poor, which unfortunately includes many retired people, usually happens close to the elections. Because when elections are over when coalitions are formed, it is found that Desus remains alone and must work with coalition partners to improve the situation for both the retired, the workers and the majority of people who do not have such an impact on society. That is why, of course, I believe, given the work already shown in her mandate as Prime Minister, Mrs Mag. Brother, that her obedience to poor groups of people or to the needs of the retired is only now reflected before the elections, and later it will not be. Because if we look at history, we find that the pensioners in 2013 and 2014 did not receive any harmonisation of pensions. So, nothing. Not even a drop of ice cream. Although this comparison she gave to ice cream cupcakes, I have to say that it is very inappropriate and often reminds me of this: If people do not have bread, they should eat sweat. I don't think the valorizers are going to buy ice cream or they can't afford enough, but they're going to buy bread. And that's what we have to give them. And that's what we're trying to do in Desus to give it to them. However, if we are realistic about what happened in 2016 and 2017, it will mean that the pensioner, who has 500 euros in pension, will have a pension of around 11 euros at the monthly level after the end of these coordinations in 2016, 2017. At the annual level, this is then slightly more than €120. This also means something and is nothing, but of course this would mean much more if this coordination were in 2013 and also in 2014. And it would be wise not to save on these people. However, in the end, what has been achieved in the coalition negotiations is what has been best achieved. Of course, the situation is improving not only at the expense of the coordination of pensions, which were in 2016 and 2017 and will also be regular and extraordinary in 2018, so that this would slowly mean that the influence of Zujf is being eliminated. I hope it destroys itself completely in time. However, an increase in financial social assistance to the minimum pension for the full pension period, i.e. EUR 500, and the final recognition of payments for voluntary pension insurance, which we have also recently accepted, also contributes to a better state. These measures, which lead in the same direction somehow to improve the situation of the groups of people who are the poorest, were of course quite something. However, I would not like to talk again about the bank hole, and finally about Mrs Bratuška's contribution, because it has already proved to the NKBM that the owner of this bank has drawn more money, which means that this money was somehow unsupervised to banks, and therefore the pensions were also frozen. That's what we say. We overpaid the banks. I also hope that what will now be withdrawn from the New Ljubljana Bank will not go on sale, that again a foreign owner will be able to earn the 360 euros that our country intends to withdraw from this bank, of course, I think it is too small and that we should be more determined here and get the money that has also damaged the pensioners, which has left the pension frozen for a number of years. I hope that we will come back and that we will also be able to move harder then also after these increases and that we will, of course, completely destroy Zujf and those measures that have happened in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Before I explain our amendment, allow me to literally circumcise myself in the debate of Members Desus. I guess the election's really close. I find it really unworthy to keep talking about how Desus is left alone, naming the former Prime Minister by name, and deliberately letting yourself go. Sit in all governments, Your Honor! You've been sitting in every government until now. And now you're talking about the government of Janez Janša, the government of Alenka Bratušek, this was also the government of Desus. This was also the government of Desus. And let's just admit it once, that's what you've been doing, that's what you've been involved in today. To continue with our amendment. We well know that there was a time when austerity measures were needed. Also because the situation in the country is better today. Prime Minister Miro Cerar keeps bragging about how saving is over, how the crisis is over. Now tell me how this is known to citizens and citizens in their wallets. What do they know? Of course, you, in some ways, these austerity measures, I will say, are relaxing in this way that you provide some individual groups with something better or austerity measures no longer apply to them. But with this, you know, respect, share your citizens in first- and second-class, because you only take care of certain groups first. If it is true in this country that we are to return the situation and to fulfill the promise made, that when the time of crisis comes, we are tightening the belts of everyone when it is gone – and today we are talking about the end of the crisis, says the Prime Minister of the Government, not least, a little more money has come into the budget – then it is time for one general measure, that is to restore the VAT rate back than it was. It is said that the amount referring to the so-called general rate, which was raised to 22 % at that time, back to 20% and reduced from 9.5 to 8.5. This is a measure proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this amendment. This is for the benefit of all citizens and citizens. That's what everybody's gonna know. But you're obviously not prepared to take such an amendment. We also keep talking about how our society is getting older. This is also what statistics and global indicators say. We are one of the oldest societies in the world, not only in Europe, but nine from below are on a global scale, respected. Here is also a purely concrete measure of the Slovenian Democratic Party, when it comes to to tollers, to reduce the toll paid by 25 % on the basis of the number of family members known as vignettes. For those who support four or more family members, this toll is forgiven. This is a measure that will certainly help us to come back to Slovenia to have more births, to increase families and to ensure the future of this nation. This is a measure, and the money is for it. Of course, we have to ask ourselves where to put it. I have already said many times that the biggest priority problem for this budget is in fact. The biggest problem of the budget that we have adopted, which could actually bring some measures that we know about citizens, is not, I don't know how much money we've spent on some information clouds in these three years, and the ministries themselves warn that they have nothing to do with it because they don't have basic technical equipment to operate. In particular areas such as culture, we give money for some actions, for some promotional events or, I will say, ridiculous and humiliating events. Yeah, there's a lot of money for individuals, but there's no money on the other side. That's what the Minister of Culture does, Your Honor. Take a look at that vehement action, Janez Janša, and look at the budget, how much money is paid to such individuals for the stupidity and ridicule of the whole country, while for other things like Slovenian, the development of the Slovenian language is a trifle and so on. But to return to the amendment, specifically, a reduction in VAT for all groups, not just for individuals. Let the citizens know that there is no crisis. On the one hand, do not boast that there is no crisis, and on the other hand, you have turned this measure into a permanent, not a temporary one. You've made it legal all the time. I hope that in this National Assembly I will no longer hear how the government of Janez Janša has taken certain measures that are terrible, they have been devastating to citizens, while you are committing them all the time. At that time, it was made clear that it was measures for a certain time to be taken to bring us out of the crisis. These are your actions. That's your mirror. Some don't pretend you weren't there. You're everywhere. Some in this national council everywhere. Now you have a chance to put things back because there is no more crisis. The finance minister just has to laugh, there's more money in the budget, there's no crisis. Yeah, let's help the citizens, that's why we're in here. Let us lower these VAT at both levels, and let us show whether we are serious about whether this budgetary debate, which was yesterday practically all day and everything else, is just one bluff and preparation for the elections. Previously, it was also said that local communities cannot accept budgets for a time when they are gone. Yeah, what's the budget 2019? There'll be a whole other composition. But if we really want to do something, let us accept amendments that benefit all citizens and citizens and do not divide them into first- and second-class ones, because they all had to tighten their belts. Of course, some people knew much more, others a little less, but today we have the opportunity to remove this belt for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u109	Before I give the word "magic." Alenki Bratušek, I give the floor first to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance mag. Sasha the Badger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to fix the letter that the PIZ does not determine the amount of the annual allowance. The system law only provides for payment in two classes and the amount is set out in this law, which we are considering today, is stated in the Budget Implementation Act. The Coalition has decided that pensioners will be the first category in which the austerity measures will be eliminated in full, because they were in 2011 before the infamous Zujf, paid 140 million annual supplement, is the highest premium paid in order to pay an annual allowance in that amount in the following year. In doing so, she decided that it was more fair to split into several classes, because in the case and systemic legislation, someone with a pension of 440 euros and one with a pension of 1,000 500 would receive the same annual allowance because the threshold in the system law was set at 55% of this minimum pension base. From this came these 5 classes, which are fairer than just two classes, otherwise the height is the same. Therefore, the view is that the austerity measures in pensioners have been abolished and that they will receive in the following year as much as they have received before saving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u111	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u112	Yes, Madam Secretary of State, it is necessary to listen carefully and then to say exactly. The regression being paid in two amounts is provided for in the Pisa Act. The amount of this shall be fixed at ZIPRS. Yes, you have decided for five amounts and not to draw out those with a thousand 500 euros, but to draw out those with 550 euros that will also get less than in 2011. You know how, yes, it is, unfortunately there are more and more pensioners on the threshold of poverty or poverty. Desus has been in government for 20 years. How many of these will you take on your back? How many of these will you take on your back? For 20 years you have been creating politics in Slovenia. Yeah, maybe that's why the state of the pensioners is as bad as it is. Two cupcakes of ice cream was spoken of yesterday by the leader of the Desus Group, whether you believe it or not, and first it would probably be right to address it, I agree. It's totally inappropriate, it's totally inappropriate to talk when we have a billion-and-a-half money to talk about ice cream cupcakes that you're going to give to the pensioners. We'll give those who have less and take those who have very much. Can you believe that in Desus they say that the pension of 550 euros is very large. Okay, if this is big for Desus, it's big. I think people with 550 Euros of pension are very hard to survive. And one more thing, at this meeting, you will vote on my proposal to hold a debate on too much money in banks. I expect all 11 votes of Desus, not populism here, how there is too much money in banks, but let me do something. You've been running the government for three years and nothing. As for NKBM, Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, I think you were then the government minister who sold it. What more can we do? Of course you can defend yourself, but these are the facts. And one more thing, pensions have only fallen once to this day. Yes, you will now say that it is John Janša's fault, but without your votes, John Janša's pension could not be reduced. What you are doing is the greatest populism that can go on in Slovenian politics, the greatest populism. You're not responsible for anything, but you're responsible for everything. And you're in every government, left, right, whatever it is, and even more, you're stressing that without Desus, those governments aren't at all, so you're a key factor in all governments. But the good ones also come with a little less good stuff. In short, if measures are to be repealed, this amendment needs to be supported in order to change it, and we can increase the amounts if they are available to us. I look forward to Desus's vote on his question of departure to really clarify whether there is too much money in the banks and take it out and give it to the pensioners. And that will be from words to action.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u113	I wonder if he wants to see you want more, so please sign up for the debate. [[…]] The application shall be made. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor. But then I'll fire again so you can sign up. You want a replica? Mag. Lilliana Bizjak Mlakar, please, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I thought we had an understanding of the replica before. It does not seem right to me that Mrs Bratušek is talking about why Mr Franc Jurša was talking about ice cream cupcakes. Although I followed the debate myself yesterday, I know that this was a response to previous ice cream dumplings. I think it is right that when one person is mentioned that he is present, because he is able to respond on his own and that it is not necessary for others, who, of course, accidentally know what was going on, to react. On the other hand, I haven't said anything about Mr Janša, but I have been talking about the relationship that has been manifesting itself right with Mrs Bratusek since the time of her government, so what was actually happening. And, of course, there is also evidence, right from this period, of how important the factor is Desus in the government, where he is often responsible for the fact that certain bad things have not happened, but certain positive things have happened, including in favour of the retired. And if I recall the statement made by Finance Minister Chufar, I read it in the media, in the government of Alenka Bratušek, when he said that pensioners had not yet contributed to the consolidation of public finances or, as he says, the crisis, which was why he intended to reduce pensions by 10%. And if it wasn't for Desus in that government, of course, this would probably have happened, because we also find in the media that Desus stood on the edge of it, and that's why this black script didn't happen. However, when it comes to the New Bank of Credit Maribor, it is not possible to overlook that Mrs Bratušek was the supervisor in this bank, so to speak, helping to dig a hole in the bank. And that, as Prime Minister, she filled up this bank and overcharged it. The one who was the supervisor there should know that it is an excessive charge, which, of course, those who decided to sell in 2014 did not know. But if she did, I should have warned her. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u115	Procedural mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u116	Dear Vice President, I'm asking you to call your colleague about a hole I'm supposed to be digging. Prove it and not to speculate here in front of the Slovenian public, what Desus knows well, but okay, now it's my business, so please warn her to operate with specific information, with facts. I believe and feel pain that if you sit in the government and this bank is sold, of course it hurts to sell it for 200 million euros, but there's a billion in it. Yeah, it's a pain, let's just operate on real and concrete data. Please warn her. And one more thing. Someone may have said that pensions should have been reduced, but in 2012, Desus and he were getting laid. Perhaps you should remind her to say it in concrete and correct terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u117	Since I see that you have different opinions, I invite you to report to the debate if you want to, we can launch another round of applications. For the time being, Mr Uroš Prikl will be given the last word. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I would not sign up for the word, but I can see that this desant on Desus and desant on pensioners in the Republic of Slovenia continues. That there was not enough Friday's budget meeting for budget 2018, 2019, Saturday's meeting for budget 2019, yesterday's debate on both budgets on the plenary, still today in the law called ZIPRS, which is of a technical nature, this pensioner's allowance and Desus unfortunately continues. I understand that someone is in pain, that he has some past trauma to save something else, that he has done something different than was done in the past, but I do not allow here the Members of the House of Desus to put in our mouth a statement that they say in Desus, I quote: "In Desus they say that 550 euros is a great pension." End of quote. No one in Desus said that, and of course I would like an apology here, but in the future, such anomalies and such lies no longer appear. It pains me, too, that we sold the New Credit Bank at a price, recapitalised it sooner or later, with the necessary or excessive funds, and then practically donated it to someone who will sell it further. It hurts me too, but it's simply because of the wrong decision, I'm going to allow myself to say, these governments, which are the result of some promises made in the past by someone else. When it comes to what pensioners have contributed to the crisis and what they have not contributed, I say here that pensioners as a target group have contributed most to the crisis or problems of financial nature in that country and beyond. And that's why we are sincerely trying in Desus, and I believe that people will recognize this honesty, that these anomalies and all these injustices that have happened to pensioners in the past will also be rectified. A number of measures have already been listed, but we have finally started this curve of real pension decline, and we have stopped them in this mandate. After 5 years, pensions began to be re-coordinated. It is true that at first, shy, almost shamefully low, but yet, we have come to the point that both are regularly and exceptionally coordinated. And believe that we have had problems here, both with the former Minister as with this Minister, as always and always when a parliamentary party wants an additional means, there will, of course, be a minister or a minister who is a guardian here, and that is normal, some budgetary resources and a guardian of not going too much into spending. We've had problems, I'll caricature it, we've almost had to break our knees by a few dozen percent, but we did it, we're doing it. And of course we will not stop here until that lowest pension is so high that the recipient of this pension will not risk social poverty, social exclusion, until then we will not be satisfied in Desus. If I touch very briefly on what is under discussion, the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Personally, I have to say that I find the other part that tells me about the minus 25% for a dependent family member to be lower. However, since I have already said too many times in this National Assembly and also in the Committees what my opinion on value added tax is, of course, I will oppose this amendment. But if this amendment were broken and I was just talking about minus 25% for a dependent family member, my vote here is on the bench and it's clear. Of course, the value added tax is not concrete, cemented, no measure is permanent, the constants in life are just changes, dear colleague. Yeah, but when Desus is guilty of everything, it's kind of the red thread of this debate, Desus is guilty of it, Desus is guilty of it. I believe that Desus is not guilty, either, that Juncker has such a commission as he has, and that Desus is not guilty of any natural elemental disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. We have two replicas. First of all, mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you. I will also provide my colleague with a magnetogram, but Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar said: "The amendment of Mrs Bratušek takes those with the lowest pensions and gives those with very high pensions." And if I look at what the amendment says, my amendment gives those who have pensions higher than €550. If these are very high pensions, then I really don't know, Mr. Prickl. So maybe someone else will have to give the Slovenian pensioners an apology.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u121	First, we have another replica. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u122	In order to understand each other, raising VAT was then a austerity measure. And it was said that as soon as there were no more reasons for that, he would be removed. Your government today, when it says that the crisis is no longer that we have economic growth, has not only extended this measure, it has retained it. And it will apply until, of course, as soon as possible, the other government, which will of course change it, because it is not in your interest. And so I said, don't tell people the crisis is over because they don't know it in their wallets and they're not stupid. And that's the answer, of course, not to talk about nothing being cemented. So far, this is cemented because you don't want to change. As for our second part of the amendment regarding the maintenance of the family member and the reduction of the toll or vignette. Of course, you can always find a reason not to support something. It's always easy: if you would, if you would. Look, the fact is, here's a concrete proposal on the table. Whoever thinks that this is helpful – in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that when it comes to many families, that it will do anything to help them – would, of course, support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u123	Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar we will consider your intervention to be a debate and not a replica of the replica because it is impossible. So, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I think that whoever listened carefully to what Mrs Bratušek said could have found that it was obvious manipulation again. In fact, I never mentioned a pension of EUR 550, what she mentioned and claimed that Desus claimed to be a high pension. But I've talked about giving it to those who have high pensions. And if you look at it, that money is also given to those who have a thousand euros in pensions, a thousand 500 euros in pensions and so on, which of course means, but I never mentioned it myself, and that is also evident from what Mrs Bratušek said, and yet she claimed the opposite, so that Desus said that the high pensions were 550 euros. [[…]] That's what it's called, but it's Mrs. Bratsek's character, what we want, that's what it is. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u125	Replica, mag. Alenka Bratušek, the minister behind her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u126	Fortunately, there are magnetograms. I'm going to get it before the vote and read it to you, my colleague and to all of Desus, one more time. Yes, Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar said that the amendment, my amendment, takes to those who have the least and gives to those who have very high pensions. And my amendment also gives it to those who have 550 euros in pensions. What follows, such as the fact that 550 euros is obviously a very high pension for someone? Yeah, that's a fact. I don't understand. Then correct yourself and say that it is not true that he gives only to those with very high pensions. Then tell that to Slovenian pensioners. All those with a pension of 550 euros and more will receive an annual allowance lower than it was in 2011. That's a fact. It's a fact. Is it a high pension or is it a low pension? Don't hold it. He doesn't hold for me. It does not seem to me that my amendment only gives to those who have very high pensions. This was claimed by someone else or by a Member of the Desus Group. Those are her words. It gives those who have between 550 euros and 1 cents a little more than 20 euros and all the others so much more. These are the numbers. The numbers need to be precise.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u127	The Minister of Finance, Mag, has the floor. Matthew Vrančnik Erman, and then I'll give you my word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to define myself before the amendment to article 69 of the draft law on the implementation of the budgets tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The proposed amendment cannot be supported on behalf of the Government. The proposed represents approximately 350 million lower revenues from the state budget. However, in yesterday's debate on the 2018 and 2019 budget, I must conclude that I did not see any amendments that would reduce the expenditure of the State budget by an appropriate amount, so that we can continue to talk about the compatibility of the budget documents with the law, the Fiscal Rule Act and the Constitution. With regard to temporaryity and sustainability, I should point out once again that already in the 2013 stability programme, VAT increases have been defined as a structural measure, i.e. a permanent one. It is true, however, that it was implemented through the novelty or through the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets and only subsequently transferred to the Value Added Tax Act. The sustainability of one or the other approach is the same. You accept laws in the National Assembly, and you know how long it takes to change a single marriage. In the second part, which speaks of the toll, the amendment deals with unforeseen financial consequences on the revenues of DARS. The road is not a public financial revenue but is the direct income of DARS, which is intended to maintain motorways and to ensure the financial sustainability of the company as a carrier of an important part of the country's debt. If we make it impossible by interfering with the company's revenues to pay off the credits paid on a regular basis for the construction of the motorway cross, this would mean that the state or state budget must be cut down with a guarantee. In addition, I should point out that the road is a compensation for the use of motorways or toll roads, more broadly said, and therefore the amount of the toll should reflect the use of these public goods, which, of course, cannot be measured by whether the individual car owner has maintained family members or not. In short, not in the first or second part of the proposed amendment, the Government cannot support the impact on the state budget and the unforeseeable impact on DARS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u129	Replica, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u130	Minister, only a centimeter of your golden track would be cheap enough to get that money inside, both the items we're proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u131	The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much. While it would not continue that senseless interpretation, which was given, because when words are put on the mouth that no Member of Desus has ever spoken them, it is pointless to talk about it at all, because we have always said that the lowest pension must be at least 1 euro higher than the threshold of the risk of poverty. Otherwise, we always strive for higher pensions. In doing so, I would also like to say that we find, or at least ourselves, that the formula for the reconciliation of pensions is also criminal, and this also makes pensions fall in reality. In Desus, of course, we will also continue to strive and also insist that, in addition to the coordination of pensions each year, extraordinary reconciliations of pensions are also carried out, which we have already started and we also anticipate that this will happen in 2018, but that this formula will also change in this way, so that the well-being of economic growth so that the pensioners can also be more involved. So I hope that we will continue to succeed, and to a greater extent, so that other parties will also have a hearing for these needs, and that more and more can be achieved for all other people who do not have such an influence in society. Of course, everything depends on the number of votes, on the number of Members, on the number of ministers and on the power given to individual parliamentary groups by the electorate. Because voters simply determine how many individual Members there will be and, of course, the whole budget is always a reflection of the strength that each political party has in relation to what it has gained in the elections itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u133	Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u134	If all of us truly cared that pensions were to rise, we would not have half-truths, lies for four days, two days on the committee, and the second day at the plenary session, repeated and deceived people. But, please, let's stop here what someone said, what they didn't say, what anyone would do. Personally, I will then be satisfied – and the question if I don't want anything else – when the lowest pension is as high as the necessary means to keep a person from risking social exclusion. Now it really is possible just a word or two about these classes. We estimate that in every cascade model, in every cascade system, when there are several classes, there is always a risk that someone who has one euro more, someone who has one euro less or less than the euro, will fall into the second class. Dear colleague Bratušek knows well because she has worked on finances, worked in the budget sector, that there have been similar problems, and they are probably also in the children's allowances, which we will have again in the old, new, whatever you want, 8 classes. There is also the question of whether it is right, whether someone is always wrong, whether someone is wrong or not. In the final stage, we assess, and this is our firm conviction and it has also adopted it, finally adopted by the Government, which is proposing to us in a vote such a law on the implementation of the budget, where there are five classes, because we estimate that it is more fair, because we are always on the side of those and there is a greater emphasis, a greater emphasis where social pressures are greater. We will simply make it easier for those who have lower, lowest pensions to receive more, and those who have higher pensions to learn not to have enough high pensions, but some euro in the regression or the annual allowance less. Of course, we will be very careful in the new pension reform, in the White Paper, that things will not go in an unheard-of dimension, that even more will not happen to those who will retire in the coming years or decades, and we are counting on your support here. As a colleague of Bisza’s principles, the formula for the calculation of pensions, of course, is the key to reducing pensions all these years.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u135	Mag. Alana Bratusek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you. So that it doesn't stay in the air, I'm going to say it now. In short, according to the government proposal, pensioners who have a pension of EUR 550 ahead will receive EUR 210. The amendment I tabled would give me €270. Those are the facts. Indeed, populism has no boundaries, but in the case of specific things, and in the case of specific numbers, there are no words left. Once again, even 550 euro pensioners probably do not live well, and they would do well if we were talking about social justice, which we have been listening to for two days now. Yes, the government has decided so, the government and Desus have decided so. You have a right and, of course, do it the way you set it. And I couldn't make more than an amendment at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u137	Procedural mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u138	Mr Vice-President, the fact is that our Group of Members is no longer able to respond to this claim, because what Ambassador Bratuškov said proves nothing, but we cannot answer these claims, and please, if you can remind us for another time that it should not do so because it is unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u139	Before I give the procedural Dr. Duck, I respect your opinion, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, but you're running out of time while you're mag. But Alenki Bratušek did not, so, of course, he used this option legitimately. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go. You've got a procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. We're getting close to an election. As I have already explained, 37% of the elective body is pensioners and pensioners. I understand the interests of political interference, both Mrs Bratušek, who is looking for her space to remain in politics, like Desus and anyone else, third. But my first procedural proposal would be to stop making fools out of pensioners and pensioners. However, the second procedural proposal would be that after three and a half years, almost, Members and Members, in particular those who have already been in politics, you know how it is with the forecast of time. Which also saddens me, because I am finally from Maribor, but today you cannot work, and we will break up again, and tomorrow we will vote and so on. Such people should not be in politics because they cannot manage even with time, and time is money. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u141	Debate mags. Alenka Bratusek. Urush Prikl, did you want to proceed with the procedure? Mag. Alenka Bratusek, you have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Here you go, mag. Alenka Bratusek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I hope we still have one that coordinates the work of the National Assembly. The fact is that the country has much more money. The fact is, you've decided to still save money on your pensioners. And the third fact is that with this amendment we can fix one small thing. This is not a populist amendment because I do not promise pensioners thousands of euros. No! No! Unlike another party, I'm just saying let's go to what happened before the crisis. Thus, the regression payment in two amounts, and let us also give pensioners who have a low pension, €550, a little more. Something more. That's all. Those who speak of populism, put a mirror in front of you first.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much to all debaters and debaters. I see that there is no interest anymore, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided on Thursday, 16 November at 9 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Period of the day, it's an effigy of a bill amending the system of payments in the public sector. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration mag. Kseniya Klampfer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u144	Your Honor, thank you for saying so! The Law on State Attorneys established the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Slovenia as a State authority which is independent and autonomous in the management of its tasks and competences in accordance with the provisions of this Act. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall take all the powers laid down in the law for the Attorney-General's Office, the rights and obligations, the officials and public servants employed in the State Defence Office. In view of the autonomy and autonomy of the new State authority, which will carry out professional tasks in the field of the protection of property and other rights and interests of the State through legal representation in judicial and other bodies, the amendment of the third paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on the System of Public Sector Payments, which provides for the classification of posts or titles in wage classes, proposes to include posts or titles in the State's Attorney's Office with a general act, taking into account the classification of comparable posts and titles of Group C in collective activities. The Law on State Lawyers, which starts on 20 November 2017, has changed the structure of the staff, so that the civil attorneys' officers will be only the Attorney General and the Deputy Attorney General, and state lawyers and senior state lawyers will be public servants. This is also coordinated with the provisions of the Public Sector Wage System Act. The proposal for amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System was presented at the negotiating group meetings on 18 September, 25 September and 23 October 2017. Public sector trade unions have proposed that the harmonisation of legislative changes should take place once negotiations on the elimination of job and title abnormalities in the public sector's pay system have been concluded. Trade unions have also proposed to add amendments, namely Article 3a, Article 14, Article 19, Article 20 and Article 32, which should be subject to coordination. In view of the fact that negotiations on the abolition of anomalies for jobs, classified above the 26th Wages Class, are still ongoing and the introduction of the new Law on the Public Sector Salaries System is necessary as the Law on State Attorneys starts to apply on 20 November 2017, the harmonisation of the Law with the Public Sector Trade Union is not acceptable until the end of the anomalies or the coordination of additional proposals is accepted in time. In view of the above-mentioned National Assembly, we propose to approve the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u145	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. A representative of the executive branch of power, Members and Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 59th emergency meeting, on 10 June. 11. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. During the course of business, the amendments were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of Public Administration, provided an additional explanation for the article on the draft law, stressing that these are urgent changes and additions to the Public Sector Wages Act for the implementation of the already adopted Law on State Lawyers, which has changed the status of jobs and thus the determination of the salaries of state lawyers. Therefore, the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act should provide an adequate basis so that an act of the State's Attorney's Office can determine the actual distribution of jobs. He explained that the drafter had sought to achieve coherence with the unions, but, in view of the many additional requirements and proposals for inclusion in the draft law, the proposal contained only urgent amendments. However, negotiations continue on all other amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act. With regard to the doubts about the duality of the system, he explained that it was already from the Law on State Advocates that lawyers should complete their mandate and then move on to a new way of determining, so this is not about duality, but simply about the transition from the existing system to the new system. The representative of the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia said that the State Attorney's Office supported the bill and all proposed amendments from SMC, Desus and SD groups. At the time of presentation of the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had made comments on the article of the draft law. All comments to the substantive provisions of the draft law are based on the principle that a uniform approach should be followed when including the State's Attorney's Office, ensuring consistency and thereby safeguarding the constitutional principle of equality. It also notes that the comments with the proposed amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups are taken into account. She said that, as a result of the proposed amendment, the transitional provision had also been amended, following fully the seventh paragraph of Article 95 of the Law on State Advocates and also the final provision after which the date of application coincided with the date of entry into force. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is thus an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u147	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Anita Kolesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u148	Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting! This year we have established the State Attorney's Office as a state authority, which, in the management of its tasks and powers, is independent and autonomous and which performs professional tasks in the field of the protection of property and other rights and interests of the State through legal representation in judicial and other proceedings before domestic foreign international courts and arbitration. The State's defence has assumed all the powers laid down in the law for the State's defence, rights and obligations, officials and public servants employed in the State's defence. This will be the case with the Attorney General and his deputy, as well as with senior state lawyers, state lawyers and candidates for state lawyers. The law has changed the structure of the employees so that the state's attorneys will be only the Attorney General and his deputy. If the lawyers were state officials with an eight-year mandate, state lawyers and senior state lawyers will be public officials employed indefinitely. Since the law has changed the status of jobs and thus the determination of the salaries of state lawyers, it is necessary to provide an adequate legal basis in the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act to determine the actual distribution of jobs and the corresponding wage classes. By amending the provisions laying down the way in which posts or titles are classified in wage classes, it is stipulated that the posts or titles in the State Attorney's Office are included in the general act, taking into account the classification of comparable jobs and the titles of group C in the collective contract of activity. Thus, an enzyme regime as already established for other independent and independent state bodies is established. The envisaged gradual transition to a new regime will result in the financial consequences of the proposed law gradually and over a period of several years. By the end of their eight-year term of office, state lawyers and state lawyers appointed under the provisions of the Law on State Defence will retain the salary class achieved. Thus, when the attorneys have completed their term of office, they will come into a new way of determining wages or wage classes. The government has submitted an amendment to the adoption procedure late, but there are objective reasons for the delay. The Minister of Public Administration presented the proposed solutions to the public sector unions in due time. The trade unions proposed that the harmonisation of legislative changes should take place once negotiations on the elimination of the anomalies in the classification of jobs and titles in the public sector's pay system have been concluded. In view of the fact that negotiations on the elimination of job abnormalities have been put at the top of the 26th pay grade, it was no longer possible to wait to achieve consistency in line with a number of additional requirements and proposals. Therefore, this novel contains only the urgent amendment necessary for the adoption of the Law on State Lawyers or for the integration of state lawyers into the system of public servants. We will support the bill in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u149	Ms Anja Bah Žibert will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have before us a proposal for amendments to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. This is a proposal for amendments that are actually due to the adoption of an unimaginable and controversial Law on State Attorneys, which will begin to apply on 20 November, in a few days' time. The government's approach to the adoption of binding legislation just before labor is irresponsible, as it is highly likely that the proposed solutions are inconsistent and, as a result, may pose additional problems. In view of the fact that, on the one hand, the individual ministers of this government have seen a solution to the situation for certain groups of employees leaving the public sector wage system, the Minister of Justice has acted in exactly the opposite way and has classified state lawyers as state officials and has completely subordinated them. It seems that this government has cancelled all the logos and is acting in an entirely interesting manner. The Law on Lawyers was already opposed by the entire professional public, the Council of State, and the warnings came from the Legal and Legislative Service. Today's law also has no agreement on the essence of unions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that state defenders should remain representatives of the public interest, not the country's extended deadline. Independent experts should remain who must form and express the will of the countries in judicial and administrative proceedings in accordance with the law, so that the rule of law can be protected and strengthened. At the request of the Minister, the Law on State Lawyers has adopted the status so far and has also changed the structure of employees. The independence of the State Attorney's Office has been abolished and is subject to the Minister, who is a political official, in a new change of clothes. Obviously, the Minister of Justice and this government believe that instead of the state's attorneys or the new state's attorneys, we need only some attorneys who will always follow the direction and interests of the state until the end of all proceedings, regardless of whether they are justified in law or not. Public defenders should never become just one of the powers, but should also remain the so-called conscience of the country, and should also guide the country along the path of law and alert it to any negative decisions that need to be remedied. This will no longer be the case, as it becomes the Minister's exclusive extension. From now on, there will be senior state lawyers and state lawyers or former lawyers, civil servants, and as a result today we need to consider a proposal for amendments to the Public Sector Wages Act. Given that the Law on State Advocates comes into force, as I have already said, in a few days' time, it is now necessary to quickly and horribly change this law and resolve the status of state defenders, so of course we cannot oppose it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but many concerns remain and we will certainly face this issue in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u151	Mr Peter Wilfan will present the views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u152	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! Members and Members of Parliament adopted the Law on State Advocates in February, which, inter alia, amends the status of defence counsel with the exception of the Attorney General and his Deputy General to the status of civil servants. This is precisely why we today have a bill on amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System, which duly places state lawyers in the system of public servants. As we have already said at the time of the adoption of the Law on State Attorneys, in the Member State Common Desus we believe that the previous system in the field of defence has been obsolete and expectations today are different, as media-disciplined cases also show. At the loss of millions of taxpayers’ money, it is incomprehensible how no one is responsible for such consequences; even more, it seems even as if the lawyers in their position are completely untouchable. We could rightly say that it is precisely because of the lack of control mechanisms over the functioning of the state defence against the shoulders of citizens and citizens that several million euros have fallen. The fact is, in recent years, ten judges and state prosecutors have lost their jobs due to disciplinary procedures, while this number remains at zero with lawyers. We must say that, at the meeting of the parent committee, the amendments to the law that we are discussing today have also been supported by the representatives of the defence. In the Desus Group, as has already been said, we welcomed this change in the status of lawyers and therefore support the legal basis for regulating the systematisation and classification of jobs for state lawyers. We are confident that this will prevent possible political recruitment, since it has named by the old system attorneys what rules itself. It is worth recalling that some attorneys have been appointed even at recent government meetings. They will not be appointed by the government, but will be able to apply for invitations under the rules for public servants and, essentially, they will be decided by a special expert commission. In the Desus Group we certainly support this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u153	Mag. Bojana Muršič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats will support the proposal for the amendment of the Wage System Act. The solutions relate to the urgent regulation of the salaries of state lawyers. The deadline for regulation shall expire on 20 November of this year, i.e. in five days. Before the adoption of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the state's attorneys had the status of an official. With the new law, only the Head of State's Attorney and his deputy, and all the other former attorneys, according to the new state's attorneys, became public servants. It is therefore essential to adapt their pay system. Social Democrats believe that the full explanation of the applicant for this novel is not entirely in place, especially in the work where the explanation relates to the failure of negotiations with trade unions in some others, but for public servants of important matters relating to the abolition of salary abnormalities. The change in the position of public defenders from their official status to that of a public official, with the exception of the management of the Authority, was one of the objectives of the Ministry of Justice and the Government for years. This was predicted for a while, of course, we finally decided on April 2017. It would be appropriate for the salary system of state lawyers to begin to be regulated immediately after the adoption of the Law on State Lawyers and not to wait for the deadline for its implementation. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u155	Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u156	Today we are dealing with, we can say, a less difficult amendment to the Public Sector Wages Act, because it is a real job allocation for state lawyers who will do their job in accordance with the recently adopted Law on State Lawyers. The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Slovenia assumes all the powers conferred by the State Attorney's Office, but otherwise determines the structure of the employees. Only the Attorney-General and his deputy shall retain the status of officials, and the other state lawyers and senior state lawyers shall become public servants. It is therefore only one urgent implementation coordination, for which the Government has not yet reached coherence with the unions. In New Slovenia, we believe that the whole public sector payment system needs certain adjustments in terms of the comparability of individual titles, professions and professional groups, taking into account their complexity, responsibility and labour burdens. Let's put a group of professional firefighters out there. This is the salary of 122 out of a total of 665 professional firefighters, representing 150 000 euros per year. This is the amount due to which the Government and the Trade Fire Union do not find a common language. Negotiations for the elimination of anomalies above the 27th class have also not been completed. According to Nova Slovenije, the existing pay system is also highly disstimulating for good employees. Their salary depends solely on the classification in the title and salary class, regardless of the work results shown. If we want a more effective public administration, a substantial shift in this direction will be needed. The summit of the Slovenian economy also draws attention to the necessary measures towards a more efficient public sector. At the time of consideration of the draft budget rebalancing proposal for the following year and the draft budget for 2019, the Government or individual ministers did not present any concrete measures in the area of wages and salary system. Members of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats will support the draft amendments to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, while at the same time we expect the Government and the government coalition to take measures for a more efficient public sector also in the area of wage systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u157	Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public Sector Wage System shall be adopted on an urgent basis. We have already explained at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly in Levica why the urgency of the procedure and thus cannot be supported by law. For the government says that the adoption of the law before us by means of an emergency procedure prevents the emergence of difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. But you have to ask yourself why these hard-to-repar consequences should arise. The answer is simple: because the government has not prepared this in six months, one side of a long marriage. The law is being adopted because the Law on State Lawyerry was adopted in April this year. This has transformed the State Attorney's Office into the State Attorney's Office, and the amendment of the Public Sector Wages Act, which we are considering today, is precisely due to that previous law and the transformation of the body. The law is therefore necessary because of the amendment adopted seven months ago and will take effect on 20 November. At best, today's law will come into force at least five days too late. We have received clarification from the Government that this was due to the fact that there were other provisions in the law which were not covered by a consensus on the public sector trade unions. As is a well-established practice, the Government has therefore squeezed the union's urgency argument into its last moment, and such practices are already a permanent feature in this mandate. The Government is delaying the adoption of the law, and lastly, it is proposing them by means of an emergency procedure. If anyone then opposes or demands veto or even referendum, he is immediately accused of being irresponsible and of hurting the country. That's how it was at the second track. That's how it was, after all, at Magna's. On both occasions, the government itself took the solutions completely too late, and those who opposed the government's solutions for ecological or other reasons were accused of treason on the day-to-day basis. In Levica, we oppose such abuse of the democratic standards that govern this country, so we will also oppose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u159	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Thursday, 16 November, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 35th agenda or at 9 a.m. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 35. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law on the financing of municipalities. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration, Dr. Nejc Bezovar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The reasons for amending the Law on the Financing of the Communities are as follows. Firstly, they are based on long-term analyses of the effects of the applicable law on the existing system of municipal financing; they are based on the adoption of the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the further development of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia by 2020; they are also based on the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of November 2016 repealing the Regulation establishing sub-programmes which are considered to be the calculation of past expenditure of municipalities and consequently on the determination of the average; they are also based on the audit of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia of June 2017, which explicitly required a more precise definition of the procedure for determining the average level and taking into account the fiscal rule in determining the municipality. The key changes brought by the novels are as follows. The proposal for a law contains amendments and additions to remove inflation from the average of previous years in the process of determining the average. The novelty clearly and transparently lays down the procedure for setting the average and takes into account the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the State sector under the law governing the fiscal rule. The proposal follows the audit of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, which assesses that the current text of the Article is ambiguous and allows for different interpretations and does not take into account the general public financial situation in the country. Article 13 amends the weights in calculating the appropriate consumption of municipalities in order to eliminate discrepancies between the structure of costs and the value of weights relevant to the determination of appropriate consumption due to the demographic characteristics of municipalities. Multiannual analyses of the final accounts of Slovenian municipalities show the ratio between the number of people and the amount of costs. The new calculation follows a higher burden on the municipal budgets of municipalities with a large number of people, especially those under the age of 6 and over 75. Article 20, as amended, lays down the legal framework for the share of the total eligible expenditure for co-financing of municipalities for the exercise of the rights of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and provides the basis for the adoption of a regulation establishing the criteria for the allocation of funds between municipalities. Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities amends the provision on co-financing of joint municipal administrations. The aim of the proposal is to optimise the number of joint municipal administrations with a minimum number of municipalities involved and to enrich the set of tasks carried out by the Joint Municipal Administration and co-financed by the State – at least three municipalities and at least three tasks, while the common set of possible tasks increases from five to eleven. The amendment fully followed the revision of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia of June 2017 and the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of November 2016. In the second reading, amendments were adopted at the home labour body, partly as a result of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the two amendments were adopted on the proposal of Members of the national communities and the other six were adopted on the proposal of the Association of Municipalities. Article 23 of the current law on co-financing of investments is complemented by Articles 23 of the current law; the addition of an article setting the time limit for the submission of new investment proposals is set after the new 31st of August of the current year; the amendment of Article 8 and Article 10 of the amendment relating to the co-financing of the common municipal administrations - namely, the amendment deletes the ceiling of the amount of the funds to be co-financed; the amendment of Article 3(3), which also takes into account, in determining the level of the average in addition to the macroeconomic circumstances of the public finances, the amount of the revenue belonging to the municipalities; and the last amendment, which provides for a transitional period in which by 2024, by 2024, the statutory provision of 6 % of grants for investment will be reached. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly carry out the third reading of the bill at this meeting and the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u161	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mag. Baby Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Secretary of State with fellow Members, Member of Parliament and several Members of Parliament, a very nice greeting! The Committee on the Interior, Public Administration and Local Self-Government shall be held at its 30th meeting, on 25 June. Ten. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Community Financing submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government on 30 June 2017. 6. 2017. At the request of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Jozet Tank, the National Assembly shall be held at the 33rd meeting of the 26th session. 9. 2017 on the proposal for a law held a general discussion and concluded that it was appropriate for further consideration. The amendments to the draft law were tabled by SMC, Desus and SD, as well as by the SDS Group and the Levica Group of Members. The representative of the proposer, the Minister of Public Administration, said in a supplementary explanation of the article that the draft law had been closely coordinated with the representatives of the Association of Municipalities. The key amendments to the bill are: prevention of lowering the bases for calculating the average for inflation, a more clearly defined procedure for calculating the average, which was the explicit requirement of the Court of Auditors, a change in weighting in the calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities, a change in the provision on co-financing of municipalities in areas where the Italian and Hungarian national communities are located, a change in the provision on co-financing of joint municipal administrations in order to encourage the participation of municipalities and to work more rationally, an early deadline for proposals to amend spending plans to co-finance municipal investments from 15 September to 15 August of the current year. On the basis of the opinion of their services, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made these provisions more clearly defined by the amendments to the SMC, Desus and SD groups, while amendments were also made to the transitional provisions which also contain content relating to the financing of municipalities. The representative of the Council of State said that the Council of State did not support the proposal for a law and pointed out that the proposal for a law had been introduced into the legislative procedure without more serious coordination with the associations of municipalities. The Council of State recalls that the proposal for a law was submitted to this procedure without harmonisation as mentioned and expects that the Community funding system will not be affected without the analysis previously carried out. The President of the Association of Municipalities of Slovenia said that the Law on the Financing of Municipalities was one of the pillars of the operation of local self-government and expressed the opinion that the law in force was good. He said that some of the proposed changes were not harmonised and to a large extent weakened the system of autonomy and stability of municipal funding. The representative of the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia expressed concerns about the proposal for a law, in particular with regard to the amendment of Article 12, which provides for the calculation of the average costs for the financing of municipal tasks and the determination of the average. The representative of the Association of Municipal municipalities of Slovenia stressed that the proposal for a law contains only partial solutions and the communication from the Court of Auditors on the financing of municipalities clearly shows that the system needs more comprehensive changes. On the individual questions raised by the coalition and opposition Members, Minister Koprivnikar explained that the law already in force contained a compensation mechanism, namely that it was a solidarity settlement. The bill, however, refers to the need to take into account demographic changes in municipalities; both the ageing of the population and the large number of preschool children who are particularly troublesome in some municipalities. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained, with regard to the introduction of a transitional period in the provision of municipal co-financing for investments during this period, that it was an investment transfer and, in the transitional period, the extent to which such a solution was useful and used. The Committee then adopted amendments to SMC, Desus and SD's parliamentary groups and rejected the amendments of SDS's members as Left. Thus, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u163	Since the assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 33rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 11. 2017. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Tomaž Lisec, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Honorable representative of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! When we received a proposal for a law on the financing of municipalities in the National Assembly, in the second paragraph, I quote: “The analysis showed that the current model of the calculation of the average should be improved in the future” and so on. When we asked what kind of analysis, there was silence. When we said how this would financially improve the condition of the congregations when we all wanted them to have higher averages, it was silence. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we have proposed that until we have the answers, what does the new law on average mean for the following years — except for the fact that you have already transmitted to the congregations by letter 10. 10. when you wrote that according to the draft law on the implementation of the budget, i.e. the bill, the average will be EUR 551 in 2018 and EUR 558 in 2019. You send a letter to the municipalities, but in the National Assembly we have the Law on the Financing of Municipalities and we have in the National Assembly a bill on the implementation of budgets where the average is determined. I wonder what if Members once stood on the edge of the government and said, but now, boys, for a moment we will stop and, say, raise – I don't know – the averages for 2018 are 580 euros and for 2019, for example, 600 euros. But no, you can write a letter to the municipalities on 10 October about the appropriate consumption, income and financial balances for 2018 and 2019, what will be the situation. As they say, the National Assembly should accept what it accepts, that will be the situation. But the fact is, every mayor cuts his ears when he hears the word "average" and when he hears the word "consumable use." In addition to not getting any assurance that this calculation of the average will be better, so that matters for the municipalities will be easier, on the other hand, we have received in one of the preceding articles abrogation of the indexation. In the year when the government brags about how things are getting better, the indexation declines. Then in about half a year, given that we are likely to arrive in 2018 during both national and local elections, the government will come with a bill and, as announced today for the public sector wage system, will come with a pre-election candy. Now you are taking, and then you will give, and in the end you will boast of what you have accomplished. But only a pear effect will be important when you go to the mayors and say it's the government that listens to the municipalities. Unfortunately, the facts are quite the opposite. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we are concerned that we do not have any concrete data, but that the analysis that would convince us that, as the new model for calculating the average will be better, is worrying about another situation. When we wanted to find out what this appropriate spending would mean for the municipalities in 2018 and 2019, the fact is clearly the same as you sent it to the municipalities: we have a bill on the implementation of budgets in the National Assembly and the matter is the same as it is. When I explicitly wanted to answer the question of what does this slightly different formulation mean, or a new model, which is more affecting the separation of municipalities with age structures slightly different, so that they get some small municipalities, which have several younger ones, who also have more older ones, on the other hand, we received an answer from the minister: “Mr. Lisec, go to the Ministry of Finance’s website and calculate for yourself.” But when I said, okay, we're going to see these 212 municipalities, and this formula, we're going to see what the financial impact is, we're only going to see three items in this coefficient calculation: the number of people, the area of the municipality, and the length of local and public roads. But nothing about what this age weight will mean for the congregation. After hearing from a Member coming from Ljubljana about how the municipality will receive 800 000 euros more in appropriate spending, and when we read in the draft proposal or proposals of the law that the law has no financial impact, we wonder which are the very likely rural, smaller municipalities that will only have to cover 800 000 euros on Ljubljana's account, probably a little less for Maribor, for Celje, for Koper. So whether smaller municipalities — we know how many of them were hit again under 3,000 people — by adopting legislation because it is the same theme again: centralisation at the expense of smaller rural municipalities. That is why in the SDS Group we have not opened an article on appropriate use at least half the way to what the Association of Municipalities proposes. The Community has already immediately proposed that, as long as what they themselves require, the calculations for the average area are known, that the calculations are known for the appropriate consumption so that the law is not dealt with. As it is said, because we only have an article that deals with the question of the average, we are proposing in the SDS Group that this article be deleted. While we hoped that we would have the opportunity to withdraw this amendment, to get on the parliamentary bench or in the parliamentary group a calculation of what will be the new model of average calculation, because you wrote it yourself, quote, "we want to improve the model of average calculation or we want a more transparent method of setting the average". The fact is that hiding behind these improvements and for better transparency means only one thing: attacking municipalities, attacking municipalities that do not hear the name of Ljubljana, and here at least a little is on Ljubljana's account of a certain municipality. All the other mayors, all the other local communities, we lose. Given that we are talking about one of the laws that is a package of budgetary legislation that is being adopted in these days, we see not only in the budget but also in other laws and explicitly in this law that certain improvements that you will give to certain groups will be paid back by the municipalities. The answer will probably be the same again, at the time of the crisis the municipalities were least saving; but the opposite is the fact that, in the time of the crisis since 2011, regardless of whether there was an electoral year such as 2013, the municipalities were the largest investor in the country, except for what project, such as the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, we are almost not really tracking in the practice of the project carried out by the State. But not only did the congregations do what the state imposes on them as compulsory tasks, they did what the state should do in the field of investment. Thus, the municipalities invested their resources in hospital systems, municipalities investing in investment and in the renovation of state transport infrastructure and so on. For the reward of all that the congregations survived at all, they likely receive one of the last blows — the Law on the Financing of the Congregations. But again there is another fact, concrete calculations and practice will unfortunately only be visible in practice – when? When the government and this call of the National Assembly will be no more! That is why I appeal once again, especially to those Members who also have the opportunity to be municipal or city councillors, to be sober and to consider what kind of law you will support. Because I personally find it very difficult to listen in my own congregation to representatives of the clergy groups SMC, SD and Desus, who speak about what this country takes from the congregations. If we still have the mayor who says, because this is the government's fault, the ministers are guilty, the Members are guilty of accepting nonsense, I've had enough of it. In adopting the 2018 municipal budget, I also said that we can soon expect a budget rebalancing, because only those matters that are in circulation in the ministries, namely legislation and, last but not least, individual regulations, indicate that, in addition to the Law on Community Financing, in addition to what the Government has put into average and appropriate consumption, there will be other moments that will weaken what I think is the highest added value of this country - the municipality. I have always said that if we have a local community, we get a 1.5-euro project from one euro project, if we have municipalities, we get about 1 euro from one euro, if we have state projects, and we get 0.50 euros from one euro a project worth. What am I trying to say? So far, municipalities are the most rational master, since each mayor is committed to almost every one of his own inhabitants. While we Members are only partially committed to our inhabitants in our districts, we are also partly committed to our political affiliation. While the ministers are often brought points by that Uhmepisian syndrome, when they say yes, we decide, and everyone else does what you want, because we look and work with the power of authority, and you have to do all of this. Therefore, due to the fact that you did not bring concrete analyses and concrete models in the course of the whole procedure for the adoption of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, what this will improve, the calculated average, and since we know for now only the promise that the average of EUR 2108,551 and EUR 558 will be foreseen for 2019, we propose this amendment in the SDS Group. If this amendment is not adopted, we will certainly not only vote against it, but we will consider other measures that will be just the opposite of what you are doing. After you have reduced the power and financial influence of the congregations, we want to improve it and give the congregations the opportunity to do things that some have long stopped defending. This is, you want 10 strong congregations and everything else to join the larger congregations. Practice proves otherwise. Go, for example, and I don't want to offend the former mayors of Ptuj, and ask the mayors of those smaller municipalities if they were still under the authority of the Municipality of Ptuj. Or you might want to ask some other congregations, but from Ptuj, many smaller congregations have emerged. And everyone says, no matter what, because people and mayors were aware of what they got for every euro. The State is not aware of this; it is aware of only one fact that the local community can be mortified as long as it can. Even if local communities kneel before the country, this will be no cost for the country, only one concern, one less deal to be concluded. In the SDS Group, we will support the amendment's proposal to keep the calculation of the average at the current level. Why? Since we have not received any analysis, no methods have been used to calculate that the average for Slovenian municipalities will be better and evenly distributed so that the population of smaller municipalities will not pay what you, in particular, give to the largest municipalities by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u165	The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, chairman. Some very pressing issue, and I am surprised that we are so few, especially of the larger groups of Members. I will start with this: if my colleague Lisce and I were to agree so much in the field of energy, asylum policy, public education, health care and anything else, this society and the state would be better for all of us, and probably even pensions would be at least 100 euros higher when you address pensioners. Why? Even if this society and the state were to think more about themselves or be more normal, because I am taking it as normal, for a quarter of a century we would need some serious reform of local self-government. We agree here, probably a lot from the coalition, but you don't know what to say. Today I spoke to some former mayor, including some former minister of one of the coalition parties, and they agree, I don't think so. As I have said many times before, we have some Ministry of Public Administration, if you are reading the Ministry's tasks, this is a ministry that has the most different substantive tasks. Then Mr Minister added a little more information to the public administration, the government, because he's smart, he's smart, he's smart, and he realizes that the money is spinning there, and I'm going to say that this sector of local self-government is some unfortunate, ugly black duck that we're dealing with too little. Personally, I think that I would need a transition to a five-year parliamentary term when Austria, such as the United Kingdom and something else, at least three and a half years, if not four years, a normal parliament can work, and that it would need at least two mandates, in short 10 years, a ministry for the reform of local self-government, which would have opened this issue up after a quarter of a century and would have taken the establishment of regions seriously. I've said it myself many times, from professional deontology, so many regions like the archdiocese, the bishops or, in fact, one less, I'd say. That's it. And we're always around mandatory tasks, spending, and we're doing something about it. In fact, this should be opened and this balance sheet should also be opened. To see whether these congregations are too large or not; you know, people usually say, there are too many congregations, sometimes we had only so many, let us put an end to all of them, and then that mayor would knock them up, except for ours. I mean, I can make the community even more than it is now, but I've already explained it. But not all congregations have the same mandatory tasks. Here we have touched on the problems of ageing of the population, of preschool children. We've known for a quarter of a century that we're going to get to where we are, and we're going to get somewhere else. Personally, I think we should take a few tasks when it comes to this redistribution and centralise them. Including primary school. Why? Because those of us who get to know each other a little are also those of the congregation who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who Think about it! What is centralised and, of course, also orders and these matters, at least at some basic level, to leave municipalities with fewer tasks and that the municipalities can finally pursue some development. One congregation will be more crafty, the other more touristic, the third something, one more mixed. In fact, even in this way, you know, smaller municipalities, if they have a smaller scope of mandatory tasks, have a slightly smaller average or principality, actually get more money on one task, and in this way you also develop areas and areas of development at risk. I don't mean it. This is a reform that, for example, is now relatively successful in Austria's Styria. Of course not on the chorus. I know you have a lot of appetites in the regions, but on a horrage that a political party will sit in which region. That's not the way. Even in Austria, this reform was marinated for several years and the mayors were against it first. The reform of local self-government goes to Albania, the reform of local self-government has been carried out, cited as one of the better cases, Denmark. Here I agree with my colleague Lisce that this number of small municipalities at some point was a huge development. This can be seen in our country if we do not go through Slovenia as a horse with coats. On the other hand, we are now at a time when we need to be aware that we need greater aggregations, integrations for future development. Not necessarily in a way that we must give the congregations together, we can also decide on this, but in a way that is actually also responsible for the budget. This would require regions. Not because someone would actually like it. That's what I've been warning you about, this whole mandate, nothing really happened. Well, sometimes there's a small part here on the mayor's shoulders, not so much. Most mayors are honest, they want to do something serious. In Levica, back then in the United Left, we had kind of a rule that you don't run for municipal elections because we already have enough work here, but we do have some experience with it. Look, now I have some of the most recent information. I will read percentages: Lendava 43%, Velenje 42, Hrastnik 41, Črnomelj 40, 78 other places over 30% Short, 82 places, local centres. [[…]] These data relate to a reduction in the population aged 15 to 26 years. Of course, the answer is often simple — they went to school somewhere, they went to study somewhere. But most of them won't come back. Including me — I realized at the age of sixteen that I would be more difficult to do there in the congregation of Črnomelj if I could study. And that's the problem. We also have to ask ourselves how we're going to go about some polycentric development or not. Or say we're all going to live in cities, and we're going to go there with the jeeps that are a little fashionable now, or the SUV for the weekend. These are some of the important issues that the next term or the next two mandates will have to resolve. It's not gonna be easy. Of course, they will be rebellious, both mayors and certain political options, and in fact I am not an offensive person, but that is indeed an insult. Especially SMC, because this mandate is a mandate when there is no such pressure of mayors at the National Assembly. This mandate was the ideal mandate to start reforming local self-government. Now, through Charc, and someone else, a mayor's party promises, there will be more squabbles, and I fear less responsibility, and this is one of Cerara's government's major mistakes not to go into reforming local self-government. I agree with Lisce here, and some serious analyses have not been done. Of course you have to, and I'm with the opposition, some kind of abstinence appetite, especially when you're doing a little better. But now we could seriously discuss these matters and start some urgent reform. But you know, because I always say that we forget that in the end we are all essentially citizens of certain congregations. I cannot support this in part, what my colleague Lisec said, he also knows, because currently this factor for calculation works the worst for Maribor. As far as it looks, Maribor is almost half in a super state, which is very far from the truth. But, you know, we have to be aware in the 21st century, as Miro Cerar said, that's, that's complicated. We also need to be aware that we need to open this balancing machine. And we also have this balance sheet because of some increasingly bewildering policy, whether you're in favour or against it. We need to begin to think a little more complexly — these congregations, and in fact some differences between them. I've been on Facebook for the last two days. I've been spinning the data. You know, the best is actually the municipalities around Ljubljana, this kind of suburbanization, a little by the highway – those who have money to build a byte. That's it. After a lot of other things, we're all more and more in the bull. This is my second, third Slovenia, which is the result of an irresponsible policy, and this mandate has not been saved, and the Ministry of Public Administration also deserves a very low assessment. But I'm gonna save some time for our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u167	If there's still a wish, please report. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you, President. This is already a practice when it comes to the local self-government of Franz Trček, that I must then answer. I have been taking local self-government very seriously since 1996, but I remember when we fought for the establishment of a congregation, that I spoke on the phone and persecuted certain people at the Ministry at the time — that the same people were there. No, the Secretary of State isn't, because I'm sorry when he hears things that he's not guilty of, because he flew in like SMC to this function, and if he'd been there that long, I'm sure it would have been different. [[…]] Look, I have this feeling all the time that the state has a bad attitude towards local government, all the time. For almost 35 years, since I was active, at the time in the local community, when we voted on local self-contributions to tarnish the macadamian municipal roads, he has collected six years from the house to the house for all these sections, that is, 35 years ago when I started. It will be 21 years when I'm very serious in local self-government. Of this, I was president of the local community congregation back in the old days to the president of the local community, and I have been procuring for 13 years. And things are clear to me. Status. Most of it happened in the field when we had local self - contributions, and we did some physical work, paved these roads, but, you will not believe, there have been three quarters of the paved roads in our congregation since then. No one overcoated them, we only flick holes, roads are insufferable because there's no money. The local self-government, which began in 1994, when the first congregations were established, was the greatest start of the first four years. Then, in my opinion, these small congregations with the presidents of the former local communities have done too much and the state has done nothing, and it has to be stopped from seeing people in larger cities or in larger centres, why nothing is done with us. Let's look at Ljubljana back when there were some female mayors, so, excuse me, they're good, but nothing's done in Ljubljana, nothing's moved, not in Cyprus, but no, I don't know where else. In small congregations, however, much has been done. Now if the value of this public property in the municipalities were to be looked at from 15 years ago, 20 years ago — those that were created at the time — at least now, they would have tripled the municipal infrastructures, transport infrastructures, all together. At least triplets. What about the state? And the state didn't give it away. If we now look at how many budgets there were, how much more did the municipality itself provide for the appropriate use of the various investment funds. At least twice as much investment for investments from appropriate spending or from the state! However, there was a reverse system in the country, and investments were three times more expensive where only the state paid than those in small municipalities. The results are clear, and some thorough reflection and action would be needed here, because if we look at how many basic tasks of public economic services we have in relation to neighbouring countries in the field of water supply, in the area of waste water treatment and waste management, which is the basis of the task of municipalities, and in the maintenance or management of municipal roads. What legal problems we have regarding the ownership of municipal roads where there is no need for money, but in 20 years no one in the country is smart enough to solve it or try to solve it! Why? Do you have a solution? We have recently adopted legislation in this area, but nothing has been resolved in this area. The State Council is now making a law; the question is whether it will withstand this solution of judgment somewhere in a constitutional court. In addition, I think we should take a step forward so that local communities can also start dealing with energy supply after all, with local food supply, local care, self-sustainment, where many can do things in an organisational sense, or management or management. What we have now is the same 20 years and does not solve certain problems. These changes too, not to mention the strategy for the development of local self-government. We'd better forget that and us and the government and start over. We are not going to support this law, because according to this amended formula, the mayors say that almost three quarters of smaller municipalities get fewer and larger municipalities get more according to the changed formula. This is not a solution, but the needs are certainly reversed in these small congregations. Look at how much we've taken from these small municipalities: the local offices have been shut down, then the pharmacies, then the ATMs are already taking everything. Instead of turning the services closer to the people, it goes against everything because it's all over the money and it's not worth it. That way we don't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u169	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that, President. A nice greeting from the Member of Parliament, the Members who are still here, of course, the Secretary of State with the co-worker! I must admit that there could be a lot of involvement on this subject, but given that I can say directly, because I was a little challenged by Dr. Trčko, I also agree that in this mandate we are not proud that the coalition simply did not bite into the so-called, let's say, only category that is enshrined in the constitution and is not realized, and that is the landscape. I agree that we have here parliamentary groups, Members, certainly a slightly different view of these matters, but I think that further or even in the coming mandates we will have to look with interest at how much will be done on the part of the parliamentary groups. In particular, because of the fact that when you strategically embark on the implementation or realization of the only constitutional category that is not realized in these 26, 27 years, because the big problem is certainly occurring at the so-called local levels, 200 and so many municipalities, and I think that in the past there have been some attempts, but this so-called interest of mayors, let's say political parties, apparently prevailed before this category to be systematically pursued. Here I must admit that I look somewhat differently at the existing strategy for the development of local self-government as opposition Members, which is completely understandable. It is an extension or some form that is being tried for this so-called transitional period, as far as I can assess, even with this instrument, if I may say so, a combination of administrations, at least a little closer to some economics, especially integrity, in line with what we have already touched several times in the National Assembly when we adopted spatial legislation, in parallel to the construction where this so-called local self-government and mayors meet with this particular category that we call the regions; and clearly again, we are tied to financing, European funds and so on. Indeed, it is likely that it is high time that after two decades or even more of a systemic step into the realization of this so-called constitutional category. Fellow predecessors talked a lot about Ljubljana. Given that I come from this environment, we certainly have more or less experience from this kind of local self-government. I must say that I do not agree with the respected colleague Laho, who said that there were also women mayors in Ljubljana – and what have they done? You know, they did something, too. It was not that noticeable, but things were touching things and it was crucial during that period that the largest municipality or municipality in Slovenia was not as indebted as it is today. It is true that if you have more money or money at your disposal and are also very developmental and provide certain resources, even when in debt, then you can see very much this development, which is practically an intervention into space or into all segments, not just construction and special services. This is not always the case here. I will continue to touch on what is the biggest problem — averages, but before that I would like to touch something else. When we talk about local self-government, I belong to that category of Members, which we are very happy to find out from the data prepared by the Ministry, that at the end of 2016 there were quite a few municipalities that were not in debt at all. It is certainly not all about how effective the master or mayor is with his team around him, as well as with the clergy and even with the authorities that run the congregation. It is also true that on this occasion it is publicly stated that in 2016 we had even two municipalities that settled all obligations, meaning that they had a positive zero or were in a positive business. These are Churches in Gorenjska and Mengeš. We also have municipalities that provide what is necessary, not only municipal infrastructure, but also all that is necessary in a particular area of the country or local self-government to provide all the necessary infrastructure and other conditions for the normal life and functioning of the people living there. I must admit that in this critical debate, my colleagues have missed one point, which I believe is the biggest problem or a very large problem of local communities, and in particular the individual municipalities, which the mayors have been working on for many years – the so-called categorisation of municipal roads. I think that this is at least a major problem in regulating space and so-called local infrastructure. Let me now touch this average, which is one of the key issues in changing this law. Here I have to object a little bit to my colleague Lisco, who said that on the Home Working Committee, when this was discussed, he suggested that the Government should provide some analysis and so on. It is correct to say that we have interrupted the parent committee precisely because the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, have provided very clear information, as well as an overview of where those tables and a table display have been the basis for calculating these averages. I think that's when we got rid of it. This means that, even for this base and this model, which is now practically ahead of us and which has also been confirmed by the parent committee, does not hold that there was no systemic approach based on some analyses. What is very important in this context and should be mentioned is that the funding of municipalities is also an integral part of the country's funding. Here, whether or not we want to hear it, the fiscal rule is present and we simply have to stick to it at all levels. I'm not going to let go now, is it in line with the reference to the fiscal rule all the way we'd like? Well, that's never gonna happen. But the fact is, it has to be respected. It is also true that little is highlighted when we talk or talk about the needs of local communities. That the average, as a rule, or if I say roughly, represents only half of the so-called revenues of the local community or the congregation. That's the average. About half. It certainly depends on how much; what the colleague said about Maribor being more or less with some such approach slightly worse, the Municipality of Ljubljana is supposed to be in a better, smaller municipality – again there is a difference. You know, the fact is that some formula that is set up If you have also listened carefully to the report, one of the representatives of these community associations has even said, to the surprise of the members of the committee, that in principle it does not even oppose such a form, but it is true that this is a thing that is alive and on which one must be alert and adapted. [[…]] What I think still needs to be mentioned is how local communities or municipalities care for the other half of the resources needed. For we know that the local communities have some original income, as a very well-known compensation for the use of building land. I have to admit, when we had a debate on construction legislation, I was really surprised that we even have a municipality in the Republic of Slovenia that does not collect almost this tax. He's not picking up, but you know! It's a shock to me! But when we talk about average, then we have to give all the country. We have here certainly some reflection and if someone does not take care of their original income, I think it would be difficult to have such an entity, or the local community, or the mayor for a credible interlocutor, if necessary for funding, unless they have such strong income from another address. We also know that one of the key issues is inheritance tax and gifts, real estate tax and the like. Let us not be surprised if this real estate market is highly developed in smaller or larger municipalities. More than traffic, there is more revenue from the municipalities and talking about a balance sheet, that this is in some ways an average, I think it is not right for these 200 and so many municipalities, because these are different approaches. That I will not then talk about various payments for public services services. Mayors who somehow manage or operate local communities themselves will overestimate whether such services are charged in some reasonable amount or amount, or not charged, or very progressive in the collection of such charges. Thus, there is a very wide range of such debates. To conclude, the fact is that this average, which is ahead of us, is an integral part, as it is said, of the need to take account of the fiscal rule, and I believe that in the following terms, in particular, it will also be possible to engage intensively with the competent department and the Government with the province. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u171	Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Uroš Prikl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! But there are some thoughts on my part, too. Since the adoption of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, it has practically been a decade, and we are here somewhere. The analysis, which was not so small, indicated or focused on the need to modify, improve, make a more optimal existing model of calculation of averages, taking into account data on actual costs or data on standardised costs, where this is, of course, possible depending on the type of legal tasks that individual municipalities have in Slovenia. The city’s municipalities are those who significantly deviate from the average, have a high proportion of the elderly, which is one of the key issues, resulting in the cost of non-economic public services, we know, especially in the area of social care or social protection, and so on. In addition, urban municipalities and all those which are more powerful municipalities, if I may say so, show relatively significantly higher per capita per capita costs in the area of these non-economic public services, spatial, residential and municipal matters, while the smaller derogations are still part of the operation of local self-government and transport. The municipality was shown to be on average, according to the data available to me, to be 13% higher per capita costs, at an average of 26% lower than the corresponding corresponding consumption. Here, these are the facts, these are the facts. Of course, as a coalition MP not to be too critical, I will not be very critical, but this law, which is here before us, of course, I must say this as a representative of one of the municipalities that you may have understood here – without taking into account my emphasis here – Maribor, the Municipality of Maribor, of course I do not regard this bill as dry gold. If he were harmful if he said he was harmful, he would, of course, have been unjust to the preparers. However, if I allow myself to be a little bit critical, I think it's too ambitious – I won't say too much revolutionary, because there's no need for revolutions that eat, to the way, to their own children, but one would expect something more. But what I would expect more in the first or second year, let's pour ourselves some pure wine, not in the finish line, as I said yesterday, the mandate of this government or this coalition. That the revised formula for calculating the appropriate consumption is somehow possible a step in a more fair, more correct direction, is likely to be deleted by inflation in determining the amount of income belonging to the municipalities – okay, nothing wrong, okay. Amendment of the provision on co-financing of joint municipal administrations, this is certainly a step in the right direction, integration, integration, I will tell you what we have written in the coalition agreement, and I could also list some small steps, small contributions to improve local governance policy at least a little bit. What we wrote under point 4.9. Local self-government. It's not written enough, but it doesn't matter. And now I'm going to quote and read it, and I hope someone doesn't read me reading exercises. Local self-government is a closed area. “We will direct power and knowledge to the integration and integration of municipalities” – as I spoke about this earlier, municipal administrations, those common services that can have positive effects, which have some multiple effects, reduce unit costs and so on – and their mutual cooperation, taking into account the principles of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, the findings of the Constitutional Court and the opinions of the profession. Only connected or united municipalities – I do not mean here – do not talk about abolishing that someone will not hold me to the word – “they can be strong and developed and oriented towards sustainable development. We pledge that the reform of local self-government will take place at the same time as the reform of the state administration." It's all about reform. That doesn't say because that was my interpretation now. “We will strive to simplify and rationalise procedures, but not to the detriment of service users.” And the users of services are all of us who are here, all of us who are outside, all of us who are citizens of this country, and also of tourists and those who come, go ahead and so on. Refugees, too. We have also written this down: "The strategy must also answer all the key questions regarding the establishment of the provinces," this colleague Verbic said earlier, "and the emphasis must be on bringing together municipalities and reforming the community funding system. The reform of local self-government will take place together with the preparation of a reform of the territorial organisation of the state administration." By doing so, once again, we can all sign, and the drafters of the amendment of the law have gone in the right direction. As I say, not too much, for my taste, not ambitious enough. So I expect that this will be a small step, although the mayors – let alone the ones they are, they are not ours, they are theirs – they can be critical, but they are aware of the daily problems and problems they have, and not just and only about funding. Once again, don't mind me saying one mantra, and here are the representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration, who are those protagonists of conversation or negotiation, if you want, a deal with representatives of the municipalities, all three unions, that is, the city and so on – because we know what I'm talking about – let's really make one effort here. After all, the mayors will not be washing you, and we will not be so critical of Members unless the principals or the averages go to heaven and I don't know where, and I don't know, 600 euros. We will also be satisfied at the final stage if any more euro is possible at these points, we will already try to wrap and wind up, but if these municipalities in Slovenia, which are, will not have to do some stupid things, forgive the expression, unnecessary administrative, non-profit tasks, they will probably come together to sew the place with the existing resources that are intended for them. And there must be [[…]] When you talk to each other, listen to yourselves, and please, in the end, you hear each other. I'm sure the mayors aren't too excited to be assigned some new tasks that don't carry some added value that don't do any good. This is not only true for local administration, it applies to every economic and non-economic system, everywhere. Not last time, even in the family. If we don't have to, what would we do and what would we do? I will be most pleased that those congregations will – and here I have more to say, and I have already said this several times in this house, Maribor, and there is no one here who can challenge me, that city, that congregation that has been through transition since the breakup of Yugoslavia, through the financial crisis, and what else, really experienced the greatest Ma, I don't know what to say? [[…]] Tragedy? He was most affected by the economic crisis, with all the odd jobs, and in the end, he was beaten by the country in one way or another. So listen to what I have told you in the beginning, that you actually listen to numbers, to the real moments of everyday life, and also have someone – let us have, I will speak in the first person plural, I will gladly support such laws – even some positive discrimination if you want to, to those who have been in the past and are still the most affected today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u173	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I regret that we don't have a minister for local self-government. We have a minister against local government, and he better not be here. As regards the strategy, which was critically discussed by Comrade Prikl and Mag. Verbic, I'm just adding that I want the next coalition to write a directive for this strategy: Take it, take it to the trash can, in the garbage can where the paper is written, because we are ecological and separate waste. With Mr Bezovar, who is an expert in local self-government but does not have political power, he is an expert, hoping to write with him a new strategy, a right for Slovenia. This strategy is contrary to the Slovenian Constitution and is contrary to the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which has the position of a surrogate document. And how many debates we have here, especially us coming from the periphery! It is obvious that we are people on the periphery, and congregations on the periphery, second-class people of this country, and we are also Members coming from the periphery of the second-class. About it some other time. And that's amazing. The last person to do anything in this area was the coalition, when we had the finance minister Dr. Bayuk and Minister of Local Self-Government Dr. Ivan Žagar. At that time, remember, we greatly improved funding, yes, including rural communities. Now, if you want to have Slovenia only Ljubljana plus a little bit more around, even Maribor is not satisfied that no one will think or say that you are, but I don't like it either, it is also double-faced, we are not satisfied, but because I am coalition, I will press plus. Come on! This has to be finished, you've gotta throw it in the basket, and we're gonna go get a new one! We have a violation here, a manifest violation of the Constitution. For several years now, forgive the expression that we are violating the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We have fantastic congregations, small, rural communities. My neighbor was the best since the European funds were drawn years ago. Some of you say [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Left coalition, you threw out the mayors. You threw the parishioners out! We weren't there at the time. And it all went to hell!
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u175	The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that, President. “It all went to hell!” I don't think that congregations still exist, but it is true that their status is changing. It is clear that we must decide once again whether we want to decentralise or centralise local self-government. Here I must say that I actually agree with my colleague, Lisce, who also cited this. We don't have any analysis on this law. While I must say that we have received some information from the Committee on the Interior, whose municipalities or one has been exposed will receive more, but the sum of sumarum, if you look at this proposal, will result in larger municipalities gaining and smaller municipalities losing. The Court of Auditors has made it clear that clear tasks should be laid down and that it is necessary to allocate funds more fairly. Now we're in this place, and I'm wondering if this law, which is now being amended, with all the amendments we've adopted, is following this. I certainly believe that small congregations have taken a major step in the development itself at this time, because in small municipalities, with the help of European funds and with the funds they have now received, they have achieved unfathomable results and their assets have simply increased. Why am I talking like that? I have to say that I come from a congregation of two smaller congregations. So in 1998, this division occurred, and the following happened. Back when we were together, we were actually talking about these municipalities, what was going to happen, what priorities and somehow certain investments were just going to be missing out on and off in the year. In fact, the two small congregations suddenly fell apart, and now we are going to a congregation of our own — thank God — this has been confirmed — and today I must say that these two congregations have developed very well. They satisfy the needs of the people and the inhabitants, and that is certainly good. This is certainly a step in the right direction in these small congregations. But it is true that if we want to, because in fact 212 municipalities in Slovenia are a large number, that is a fact. Some are far from sufficient for this number, which is written down, by the number of inhabitants and by other tasks, so it is important and saluting that we have these common tasks. I also welcome that this set of tasks we have is now increasing in this law. In particular, I will talk about budgetary accounting. Why? This is because when the three congregations were formed from one congregation, we had a common budget for a year. You're not gonna believe this! At that time, there were only three people working in accounting. When two new congregations were formed, there were three and two other congregations, or more. Thus, the number of employees in these smaller congregations increased. I think that these joint municipal administrations can achieve savings. Internal audit is also one step forward. However, I must say that I will not be talking about all these tasks now, because I think it will not be so much time, but I want to say that I still have a colleague who wants to talk – and yet I want to say that the congregations are the first ones to intervene at any time. When there's a fire, when there's a cold when there's a flood, we all know what kind of way we've got of a country before it gets there. But people just have to be helped in the floods. They cannot wait, make an application, and wait for a year, so the congregation must have the means. The method of financing must be adequate. I must say that I fully agree with the weighters — but will these weightings go to these small congregations to carry out all these tasks? There are a lot of things in the area of local self-government, in all my years, I must say that I am simply glad that these congregations have evolved in a different way; some better, some less better, some better, some well-reaped European funds, others less. Above all, in that first perspective, it was possible to make a huge deal with European funds in the area of infrastructure, at least road renewal. In the next perspective, these funds had to be invested elsewhere, and if they had successful mayors with a vision, with a strategy ahead, this was successful. But if the mayor was new, it just took him a year to get used to it, just as we Members have used to being here in these benches and how this process is going on, so has they. The year before the projects were prepared, it was the second year — and what happened? After four years, the mayor was gone, and he didn't have much to show after four years. It happened that they were simply thrown away for four years. Thus, despite the fact that there are people left behind in municipal administrations, politics changes over the years. So here's the thing. Certainly, I must say that we should give this issue of local self-government greater importance at national level. I certainly support this idea that we should have our own minister. One thing has happened in Mr. Zhagar's ministry. I sincerely hope that in the next term we will think in this direction or that you will think in this direction, because we do not know how this will all turn out. We also need to start thinking about the constitutional provision and to bring it to life or to change the constitution, which I think will be even harder. However, in fact, a constitutional provision that has been in force for how many years, we do not get it together and there is no political consensus, but it is another thing. That's a lot of things. I'm leaving time with my colleague. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u177	Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! I hope that the Members and Members will, however, listen to all the warnings that have come from both the associations of the congregations and the Council of State that rejects this law. It is a simple fact that this law is obviously not aligned with those to which it applies. It would be correct for the National Assembly to reject such a law, but the arguments for this are indeed very large. The point is that a more serious analysis has not been made of changes in the funding of municipalities by this proposal. No congregation really knows what that means to her. This has also been pointed out by associations. In addition, you change the way you negotiate in ways that you no longer take into account the associations of the congregations, namely, representative associations, but allow them to negotiate with you about what the appropriate consumption or average will be, in a way that allows the congregations to be organized by establishing an association, which means that this association can be established by two — or three congregations. So, how will these negotiations even take place? They can establish two, three congregations of their associations and then come to negotiations. How are you going to reconcile this? Now there are representative associations, and you have city halls, larger, smaller, and you have three serious negotiators, and even all three serious negotiators have warned that this is inappropriate. What surprises me, as I have also pointed out in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget today, where it is written down if the Government with representative associations fails to reach an agreement under the law governing the financing of municipalities, the average set by the Government is included in the draft budget. Excuse me, this is an intervention into local government, this is no longer a local government. Such a provision cannot at all be recorded in the Law on the Financing of the Communities. Somehow you may still accept in the implementation of the budget that this is some kind of current weakness, if I may say so, either the government or some financial situation to do this for one year. However, if we write this down in a system law, this is an intervention in local self-government and this law should not at all enter into a procedure with such content as it has been tabled. That's the key point. No matter how you negotiate, how you don't negotiate, then the one proposed by the government will be informed. Last but not least, even if the financial and economic crisis situation is changing, the Court of Auditors also points out that it is necessary to specify exactly what tasks are being financed by the municipalities, and also, if the financial and economic situation changes, it is necessary to define which criteria need to be taken into account so that this burden of consequences of the crisis is divided by pre-known criteria, not arbitrarily, how someone will negotiate. These negotiations, as you now have, are arranged so that two, three municipalities will negotiate well, say, I don't know, the Municipality of Ljubljana, maybe the Municipality of Maribor, the Municipality of Koper, but not all others. And that's what you're bringing into this marriage, so that's also the opposite of what the Court of Auditors has warned us about. The Law-Legal Service has warned in the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets that this law is contrary to the Constitution, because it takes the autonomy of the municipalities to decide for themselves how this money, which is their autonomous source, will be distributed. In fact, you also suspend additional funding to those municipalities that have a Roma councillor, so you are interfering with the Law on Local Self-Government, which stipulates that 20 municipalities also have a mandatory Roma councillor. By this law you abolish the possibility of additional funding, maintaining only the Italian and Hungarian national communities as an element where this is to be taken into account. In all of these 20 congregations, you delete this. Why? There's no serious explanation either. If this provision was not implemented because no one wanted to implement it because it did not want to give money to these congregations, it is not a reason to change the law, but a reason to ask those who so planned not to respect the Law on Local Self-Government. This was a condition when we discussed the Law on Local Self-Government, who, whose congregation will have a local representative of the Roma community and which do not and now do not briefly delete. The Construction Act refers to certain additional tasks to municipalities for inspection services. This law reduces co-financing of joint services, from 0.5% to 0.3%. The municipalities have organized themselves, set up inspection services as a rule, and are now being punished for organizing themselves to receive fewer funds if there are only three congregations in this association, for example. Now you're asking for more congregations. I mean, I don't understand that logic, but... So I hope that the National Assembly will reject this law and indeed prevent this unilateral act, which is by no means part of the Law on the Financing of the Communities. And if we give serious thought to establishing regional congregations, let us transfer our powers to congregations from the country, not the other way around. Regional municipalities are a solution, not a solution that actually makes the current situation worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u179	Does anyone else want to discuss this third article? I'm asking for an application or you don't have to apply in this case, I think it's just one. Mr. Franz Jursha has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Yes, local communities, the municipalities are very important for the development of a certain part of the country, and to a large extent I have to agree with those who spoke about how the development of the congregations went after 1994. In any case, I must say that the environment from which I come has been reorganized, and four congregations have been formed from the congregation of that time. Perhaps this division should be, or it would be desirable, to be a little different than it actually was, but the interests of people in the decision must be respected. Now 212 congregations, whether this is too much or too little, find it very difficult to judge. In any case, it would probably show that the reorganisation of local self-government in Slovenia is arranged to reach the provinces. My colleague Janko said, to the regional municipalities, I would say; no, we also have this degree of organisation of the country in the constitution, and we should come to these matters in a short time in order to easily define the tasks that are now in charge, I would say centralised, countries transferred to the area of the provinces, because people with significantly more sense could express their interests mainly in the area of the development of the area. Because, even though we are not a great country, we might sooner say that we are a small country, we do not like to look over certain, I will say, Trojan – and I will not speak any further. Here we are sometimes weak and this simple and simply some do not like to see. It is true, however, that we have laid down the conditions for the establishment of congregations in law, and it is also true that the policy of that time actually established the congregations on the basis of certain political decisions, these are facts. And we have 111 municipalities in Slovenia that do not meet the basic condition enshrined in the law. Now I'm not saying it's wrong or that it's okay, I'm talking about how it is. Right after 1994, when new municipalities were formed from more or less former local communities, I have to say that in the area where I come from, the largest municipalities per square kilometer. There in Pomour we have 27; 27; and I must also say that this development went relatively, relatively quickly, because people began to take sides and had a sense of importance when they made decisions in municipal councils. This was some new progress and it was seen very much, because the mayors were primarily investing in infrastructure in the first periods. Most of the infrastructure that was actually seen, these were simple roads, a huge number of roads were asphalted, but later also into other infrastructure and people's satisfaction was actually and positively assessed. But I just think after so many years, it's time to start a thorough reorganisation of local self-government. I am concerned here, and I must admit as a coalition Member, that I actually expected more to happen during this term of office. In fact, something will be prepared to discuss this matter. I think we could talk a lot, because the coalition is relatively large, and if we had good suggestions, probably the opposition in some part would support them, of course when we start talking about it, everyone starts to judge whether this rooster will now – and I will not name it in my actual space, so that I will not say any other comparison – I can kick, because this is crucial. Everyone sees their own environment, their own network, which just sort of creates around them. However, my concerns regarding the joint municipal administrations must be said to be great. In fact, when these options came, in some way in local communities, I was responsible in the local community myself, organized with some congregations and set up common services. I think that this should be further encouraged, further encouraged, in some way, to give thought to those who have poor conditions or lack the means to function normally after so many years to start thinking about unification, because it should also in some way be the task of a ministry covering the area of local self-government.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u181	Anybody else want to discuss this amendment? No, no, no. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. I'm happy to hear all of this and I'm actually glad that somehow with my colleague Lisce, we provoked Laho to put it that way. Now I'm going to say I'm going to take the amendment for a relatively short period of time. If I were to be entrusted with the next term of office to do so, I would essentially invite you all to the ministry on the team, all the speakers we talked about today. Come on, maybe with one exception from a colleague of Urosh Prick's, not because he'd be bad. He was also a good analyst at the Ministry, but he is a less colorful man than I am, but he better run for mayor of Maribor than I am – now Fištrovec will be happy – or if Bojana also wants to be mayor. Why? Because we know something about this thing from different angles and if we don't start hitting the first ball, it was now a school hour, what Parliament should look like: Parliamenting! [[…]] And people say you're bullshitting again. One thing is here -- I don't know, maybe Jank and I understood, maybe not, I remember, back in Maribor, when we had these protests -- but I didn't throw something that they read to me, and in fact they protested before the administrative unit, not at the work of the congregation. Or especially older people will say, oh, I'm going to the congregation, and he's going to the administrative unit. Do we need this duality? I think we should think about that, too. There's too much money here, too, but you know it. And now someone's gonna watch it, that doesn't mean people are gonna lose their shit. I mean, we've got too much work to do. Most of us, however, are here a generation that we have also built this municipal standard somehow. I was a five-year-old pub, and we dug the plumbing. Then, in the woods, we hit the wiretaps. Otherwise, it was more on the Croatian side because I have a grandmother there. On the Slovenian side, we and the principal of the elementary school and the eight-year-olds had children's games, and then we went a little hugged at these games in the evening, and we didn't break them because we were proud to make them. Yesterday at that trade fair, someone told me, but you know, like he said, a pond percentage; from one euro we make two, that's that percentage. We can do this in local environments because we like to do it, only these bytes and the ministry have to somehow give the conditions for this work. And I think it's some kind of message. Unfortunately, this is where we lost our mandate. I wish, like the unions, that all the mayors are united into one association, but there is a political background for why it is not. Maybe some faction, come on, or faction, ad hoc group, or faction of city halls, and those that have Roma, and those that are borderline, and so on, as recorded in the Law on Harmonized Regional Development – we do not have a region. This amendment of ours, as far as it can be fixed here, goes in this direction that we still leave two congregations, because sometimes it is purely geographically small, you have some congregations, I don't know, in some areas, it prevents the third one from coming along or there are two large — I don't know, maybe Kočevje, Ribnica, something like that — plus that, coming from all those that I've mentioned earlier — that they still have 10% of some compensation, I hope to argue that. I agree with what Jozko said. Members here are second- and third-rate. To make up for home — you with the car, me with the train that is regularly late — is something different than when someone — with all due respect — who will be here in 15 minutes can walk a puppy. And they asked me who I was really thinking about; none, but you know. These are some facts and, of course, I would also like to call on this team or consult with Mr Zhagar, who is a top expert on what I also value very much. Maybe if some other line of SLS won, maybe I'd even be in the SLS if I was honest, because I'm a more rural man, because I can see it. Well now I hope that Piki wins, I hope that we will have the Ministry's next term. [[…]] I would be very happy if this law were to be overrun here now because we need to show that it is not serious – and Janko also dissected and analyzed it very seriously and said where there is a whole series of problems here. Look, but every autonomy, including the scientific spheres, including the research spheres, not just the municipalities, ends and starts with the money. If you don't have an autonomous pennies, we can be philosophically unconscious, but I can write 27 strategies of anything because I've done it in my life. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-11-15-SDZ7-Redna-35.ana.u183	Is there another debate? But this time about this amendment to Article 8? It's not. Then I note that there is no longer interest in the debate and I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided on Thursday, 16th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 11. 2017, at 9 a.m. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
