ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mrs Marjana Kotnik Popot, Violeta Tomić, mag. Andrej Shercelj, Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec, 20th hour, Dr. Franc Runk by 4:00, mag. Branko Grims, Mr. Bojan Podkoršek, Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert, Mrs. Irena Kotnik, Mrs. Anita Koleša, mag. Bojan Krajnc, Mrs. Vlasta Wait and Mr. Franc Laj. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on non-materialised securities, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Irena Sodin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In 2015, the Law on intangible securities 1 was adopted, adapting Slovenian legislation to TARGET2-Securities. TARGET2-Securities is a project of the Eurosystem. Its objectives are to establish a single technical solution for the settlement of securities transactions to which central depository companies will transfer securities settlement and central banks to the settlement of the cash-flow of securities transactions. The bill in front of you removes some additional, after the law has been enacted, recognised discrepancies in Slovenian legislation with the rules of TARGET2-Securities. It contains three new substantive solutions. The first solution is the legalisation of the possibility that the flag right is formed by transferring the unmaterialised securities to the flag creditor’s flag sub-account. That form of flag right is necessary in order to allow for the exercise of autocollateralisation. At the same time, the current method of creating a flag right is maintained to keep the security in question under the sub-account of the guarantor. The second novelty is the ban on the multiple flag. Since TARGET2-Securities does not allow multiple flags and because this rule must comply with the legal order of countries included in the system, the multiple flag shall be prohibited. TARGET2-Securities of the multiple flag shall not be allowed as the flag is carried out in a way that unmaterialised securities are entered into the sub-account of the default creditor. This type of flag entry cannot be accumulated. By way of a third solution, the central depository company shall enter, in order to withdraw the registry accounts, the unmaterialised securities and unmaterialised securities which, after the expiry of the time limit for the taking-over of unmaterialised securities from the court deposit, would belong to the State in a good account owned by the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance. Under such a provision, the benefits of intangible securities to be abandoned will be shared among all citizens in order to abolish registration accounts. The capital company of pension and disability insurance was chosen because, in accordance with the law governing the Slovenian State holding company, it has to be transformed into an independent demographic reserve fund under the law governing pension and disability insurance. In addition to the draft law, the same solution makes sense for non-materialised securities, which will be brought to justice in order to close the register accounts and to meet the conditions for state ownership in respect of them. I hope you will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u3	The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of Mrs Urša Ban.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good morning, too, on my side. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is held at its 32nd session. 1. 2017 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on intangibleised securities submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. In its opinion, the Service made specific comments on the individual article of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendment was tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary group on articles 12 and 14 of the bill. A representative and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained what the main purpose of the bill is and presented the main solutions to this law, which were also presented earlier today. With regard to the comments made in the written opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the Service had general comments and comments of a nominal technical nature and made comments on Articles 5 and 12 of the proposal. In the debate, a member of the committee highlighted the late amendment of the law and asked why registration accounts should be abolished. He also drew attention to the fact that the proposed solution would result in heavy administrative burdens on the courts. At the end of the discussion, the Secretary of State replied to the questions raised. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee considered both amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition's groups, both of which were adopted by Articles 12 and 14. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u5	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting on behalf of the Group of the Social Democrats! In the context of the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on intangibleised securities, we find that the text of the law follows the development of a European legal framework related to intangibleised securities. If we touch on the applicant's explanation, we can see that the provision of Article 49 of the Regulation is not without exception, allowing for a derogation from the rules on the free management of services by establishing that that freedom is without prejudice to the company's domestic law, which means that the legislation of each Member State may contain provisions under which the shares of issuers from that country must be entered in the central register maintained in that Member State. However, since the Company Act in Article 182 provides that the issue of shares in intangible form is subject to the law governing non-materialised securities, such shares may only be issued in accordance with this law governing the issue of intangible securities in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the current regime does not allow the issue of shares of companies established under Slovenian law in a Member State. And here we follow the so-called T2S Eurosystem project, which aims to establish a single technical solution for securities settlement, to which central depository companies will transfer securities settlement and the central bank will settle securities transactions. This is the part related to coordination with the European legal framework related to intangible securities. However, of course, only the text of the law touches on the identification of securities holders, which is somewhat too consistent after the notice of the Legal Service if I can use this term, but nevertheless follows the desire and purpose to facilitate the identification of securities holders. Otherwise, the law also refers to a decision taken in the National Assembly at the time when accounts were transferred to the trading accounts by the clearing company, free of charge, and thus, of course, caused a very large number of controversy, both in the management of these securities, i.e. in the securities brokerage companies, as well as in the holders of securities that had previously held these shares in the clearing company and did not have any difficulties or costs. We had, of course, to accept an authentic explanation in the National Assembly. These solutions, by which we reaffirmed once again the need to limit the costs of trading firms in opening commercial accounts. However, this solution, which is in this law, follows, of course, a solution that would probably be much more appropriate at the outset, so that the situation and registration of accounts on the Clearing House of Deposits is actually transferred to Kad, which is also expected to become the so-called demographic fund. In fact, this asset, which was at the Clearing House depository, would be transferred to Kad’s management in order to ensure a more stable pension system in the long term. In part, these solutions have been taken into account in the amendment of the law, as it all appears, not completely cleared, but this solution is one that we will, of course, also support, so that at least part of the problem arises with the transfer of securities accounts from the clearing company to the stock exchange companies. And in this case, of course, it also allows the transfer to the capital company. Let us hope that these solutions will help resolve the situation in the field of intangible securities in Slovenia, and that is why we will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u7	The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, for her Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The government with this novel extinguishes the fire caused by the coalition itself when the registration accounts were abolished by the government before last year. The government then de facto claimed that Slovenia would be excluded from the European T2S system if it did not abolish the registration accounts. Nevertheless, the Slovenian system has allowed double stock formation for more than a year and, of course, the Eurosystem has not broken down, nor have we been thrown out of the T2S system. This amendment simplifies the proceedings for the deposit of shares in a court of law. One of the consequences of the cancellation of registration accounts is that at least 100,000 accounts of natural and legal persons will have to be deposited in the Court’s account. This procedure is extremely demanding, and the courts will not start these proceedings until April, even though the accounts of legal persons were abolished last September. The courts, which are stifling with regular procedures in one way or another, will now deal with this, i.e. with the transfer of 100 000 physical accounts and the citizens will wait even longer for judicial proceedings. It's been a bad month since the cancellation of the register accounts, and all we can say back is that everything we've been predicting in the United Left has happened. Thousands of citizens have given up their shares or sold them quickly without knowing how valuable they really are. To those who opened the trading accounts, stockbrokers generally charged too high a cost. The government and the Securities Market Agency, which were responsible, were looking past. The government has sent a law to the procedure without a single consumer guard. When I pointed out this to the Minister last June, i.e. that intermediaries are charging costs that are too high and not in line with the law, I received an answer that the Ministry is being constrained by regulations, as they are supposed to be proposed by the opposition. When we considered the authentic interpretation as an additional guardian for citizens in October, State Secretary Irena Sodin cynically stated that people should go open accounts to a state bank that charges by law. Until an authentic interpretation was adopted on the proposal of the United Left and the Associated Members, neither the ATVP nor the Ministry did. They watched past the violation of the legal provisions and were hindered from them. The government has sworn to work for the welfare of Slovenia. And with this cancellation of the register accounts, she showed, in the interest of who she was working for. She only used a stock exchange in the middle houses. As usual, the government is mechanically referring to European regulations, the ATVP is being implemented, someone from the ATVP told the board that they are not influenced by any lobby, while at the same time they have shown that they are nothing more than a stock exchange syndicate. Instead, officials who should be responsible for such measures are making progress. The previously mentioned secretary, who said that if stockbrokers break the law, should go open the accounts to a bank that respects the law and is present here today, President Pahor's proposal will be raised to represent Slovenia at the OECD. Unfortunately, it also turned out that I was right when I announced that the SDS amendment would not solve the problem by limiting costs. Until the stockbrokers were controlled, they cheated openly. Even after we accepted the authentic explanation, they found a new hole. The SDS amendment limited only the charging of the opening and maintenance of the account, not the transfer and commission. Illyrika, for example, bypassed the limit by now undermining the transfer of shares five times, and by doubling the commission for a one-off sale. However, anyone who goes to open an account from Alta needs to select one of the four types of accounts in a new way, he can choose an account that formally takes into account the law, but all the other services are extremely expensive, but he can choose an account that is not in accordance with legal restrictions, but then he can do so voluntarily and a stockbroker's house only refers to a choice. Basically, thieves are one step ahead of the chase, and however you turn around, the solution is catastrophic. The only possible solution would be to keep the registration accounts back then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u9	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat is responsible, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Irena Sodin, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a new Law on intangible securities brings two key changes. The first amendment is related to the TARGET2-Securities Eurosystem project aimed at establishing a single technical solution for securities settlement. One of the characteristics of the T2S or TARGET2-Securities system is the possibility of automatic acquisition of a secured loan at the central bank for the purpose of settlement of securities transactions, and this is the case for the implanted central bank autocollateralisation. The issue of this law is how to secure this loan. The proposal introduces a new form of collateral in the execution of central bank autocollateralisation in a way that transfers securities to a flag account opened to the good of the central bank. We do not oppose this in New Slovenia. Another key amendment to the new law is that a central depository company enters intangible securities that have been abandoned for the cancellation of registration accounts at the expense of the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance. The applicant has chosen Kad where, in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act, it must be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund defined by the law governing pension and disability insurance. In Novi Slovenija we oppose the way the government faces demographic changes in Slovenian society. When I talk about demography, a lot of people don't know what that means. It is simply that this government, before and before, simply cannot face the problem of underbirth in this country. And if it goes that way, soon, we can calculate, the Slovenian people disappear from the face of the earth. The transformation of the Capital Society into a demographic fund is seen as a poor attempt to solve the previously poorly played role of Kada. Moreover, the introduction of the demographic fund does not affect the key demographic issues related to both the increase in the number of births and the modernisation of the pension system. The population is old, the birth rate in Slovenia remains among the lowest in Europe. Birth in Slovenia remains among the lowest in Europe. In the next 10 years, there will be 100 000 more citizens in Slovenia who will be over 60 years of age, which will put extraordinary pressure on health and pension bills. Currently, in Slovenia, 1.5 children per mother are born. This number should be at least 2.1 for any nation that wishes to survive. For the sustainability of the Slovenian social and economic system, at least 30,000 children per year should be born in Slovenia. There's a few more than 20,000 born in our country. The Government cannot only offer an answer in the form of a demographic fund to such important questions, but it must respond to these challenges through serious measures to promote more births and modernise the pension system. In Novi Slovenija, we will abstain from voting on the amendment of the Law on intangibleised securities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u11	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear Members, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State, very nice greeting! The European Union law did not address the issue of non-materialisation of securities until the adoption of Regulation 909/2014 of the European Union. That Regulation provides that a issuer established in the European Union which has issued or intends to issue transferable securities traded or traded in trading venues, in particular in an organised market, must immobilise or issue such securities in a non-materialised form. This is the first time that a rule has been established for the European Union that says when intangible securities need to be issued in all countries. The Republic of Slovenia decided to issue intangible securities years ago. So much for the intro. The proposal to amend the Law on Non-materialised Securities sets out the solutions concerning the flag of these securities. The flag may be transferred to the sub-contractor. That's how the flag right is signed in today. As this method does not change the holder of the non-materialised securities to establish the flag right, there is also no need to transfer the intangible securities. Therefore, the entry of a flag right, which shall be exercised in a manner entered into, shall be effected on the basis of a unilateral order. It is also possible to transfer the flag to the sub-account of the creditor. This method requires rules on autocollateralisation. Thus, one of the key advantages of the T2S system is the possibility of automatic acquisition of a secured loan with the Central Bank for the purpose of settlement of securities transactions. It shall be effected by transferring securities with which the loan is secured to the account of the Central Bank or by transferring them to a flag account opened to its benefit, either by being designated as days into the insurance. The bill also takes into account the fact that T2S does not allow multiple flags. That's how this novel was banned. With regard to other solutions, the transfer of abandoned securities to Kad should be highlighted so that the Central Depository Company registers unmaterialised securities that have been abandoned for the cancellation of the register accounts in a good account owned by the Capital Company of pension and disability insurance. By such a provision, it is intended to ensure that the benefits of intangible securities which will be abandoned for the purpose of abolishing the registration accounts themselves will be shared among all citizens and will not be given to those who wish these securities first. In accordance with the proposal for a law, such intangible securities will belong to Kadu. When it has been chosen because, in accordance with the law governing the Slovenian State holding company, it must be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund, as defined by the law governing pension and disability insurance. In order to ensure the best possible transfer of intangible securities to the Court of Justice at the expense of the Court of Justice, the Supreme Court has proposed that the deposit procedure may also be led by a stand-alone judicial assistant or a senior judicial assistant and thus burden the judges. Such a solution was supported and also supported by the Council of Justice. For all of this, the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Intangible Securities.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u13	The text is given by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lepi Šimenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! We have talked several times about the Intangible Securities Act in recent months. We were most concerned with the amendment of the 2015 law when, at the initiative of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, an amendment to Article 48 of the Act was adopted to protect small shareholders from unduly high costs of transfer of securities and the annual total costs of managing these accounts. In practice, it has been shown that some stock exchanges did not respect this, which is, of course, contrary to the provisions of the law. Total costs have become disproportionately high in some cases, outside the provisions of the law. Since the legal amendment of the law, even the Ministry of Finance has been under the pretext of being proposed by the opposition and the Ministry has disagreed with the amendment. The supervisory authority in this part has not done its job more than apparently. Anyway, we've talked about this at several meetings of the parent finance committee. I hope that we have also successfully concluded at the last meeting when certain decisions are taken in this area. The main solutions to the amendment of the Intangible Value Act, which is before us today, are, according to the applicant's statements, intended to establish a legal environment for obtaining a secured loan with the central bank for the purpose of settlement of securities transactions, to settle the issue of the issue of the origin of the abandoned intangible securities and to facilitate the identification of registry account holders. We will not support the proposed changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, nor will we oppose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u15	The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mr Uroš Prikl has spoken.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Allow me to brief you on the position of our parliamentary group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on intangibleised securities. We will support him in the Desus Group. The bill establishes a legal environment that will allow for autocollateralisation in Slovenia, will also address the issue of who owns the abandoned intangible securities and will ultimately facilitate the identification of registry account holders. An additional possibility of automatic acquisition of a secured loan by a central bank for the purpose of settlement of securities transactions will be legalised by transferring the securities with which the loan is secured to a deposit account open to the benefit of the central bank. In our Group of Members, we welcome the purpose of the novelty to transfer intangible securities that will be abandoned for the cancellation of registration accounts and those deposited in the Court of Justice to the interests of the Capital Society, which is being transformed or upgraded into a demographic reserve fund at this time. Allow me to say here that part of the urgent notification of the holders of these accounts has also been added to the insistence of the Desus Group in the process of drafting the law. Among them are many older and middle - generation members, so it was necessary to inform them in writing in addition to two publications in the daily newspaper and on the website. Personal written notice has certainly a greater effect for the older generation than a one-time publication in a daily newspaper or a publication on any website, but the one who publishes it in writing is probably not going to cost too much. The benefits of intangible securities that will be abandoned or deposited will thus be enjoyed by all citizens, and not only those who would want these securities first. In doing so, we would like to point out that under the law, the Capital Society must be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic fund as soon as possible, as defined by the law governing pension and disability insurance. The proposal for this law, which we are considering today, also contains a security guard that prevents the obligation to make a takeover offer that would arise if the Capital Society and its associated persons exceeded the threshold for acquiring shares. Such indiscretions have occurred after the accident or not in the past, and therefore the state in important societies has been in significant societies for quite some time without voting rights, which is, to say the least, hard to believe and hard to understand. In order to effectively transfer intangible securities to the Court's account, the deposit procedure may also be led by a stand-alone judicial assistant or a senior judicial assistant. This was proposed by the Supreme Court, and the Council of Justice gave its consent. In the first stage proceedings, it will be solely the District Court in Murska Sobota, having the appropriate capacity, and thus taking into account the principle of equality of all regions. Everything's not in Ljubljana. Following this, we will support the proposal of law in the Desus Group. Of course, we want the independent demographic fund to have the greatest benefit in this regard, in particular and exclusively in the interest of the current and future pensioners, to whom it will also be directed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. Decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, 25. 1. 2017, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day, first draft of the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 19 Members and Members with first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 19 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed magi. Mark Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u18	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have again decided to propose a proposal to supplement the Banking Act. The decision has several reasons. We are convinced that the Slovenian banking system is not functioning properly and that legislation needs to be supplemented. Slovenia is the only transition country that has had to rehabilitate its banking system in its relatively short history twice at the expense of taxpayers, which we see problematicly in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but is of course trying to hide the responsibility of those involved in the rehabilitation of the banking system and the need to recapitalise different banks by means of tax money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the Banking Act itself is not sufficiently transparent, so we have again proposed certain amendments and additions to the existing law. The key objective and the principles of this law are to obtain relevant information that will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt effective banking legislation to prevent irregularities and inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system. The proposed law also seeks to disclose the liability of those who have participated in the granting of loans without adequate guarantees, in cases where the bank has accepted State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The proposal to supplement the Banking Act follows in particular the principle of transparency and openness. What are the main solutions to the proposed law? The proposed solution will make bank data, which have so far been confidential, available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the working bodies and investigative commissions operating within the National Assembly, if the bank data relates to a bank that has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. This will enable the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which also makes important decisions regarding the resolution of banking problems, to obtain relevant information regarding the situation in the banking system, to identify who is responsible for the situation and, in particular, to adopt appropriate legislation that will effectively prevent future irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. It is also proposed that, in the event of a bank’s termination, whether it is a regular or forced termination, the obligation to protect confidential data no longer applies. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we call on Members and Members of the ruling coalition in particular to reconsider and to listen in particular to the arguments of the Slovenian Democratic Party for this addition to this law and to determine today, through discussion, whether, according to the Constituent State, this law should be supplemented in view of the fact that it is a first reading. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we are convinced, even in the light of the discussions at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, where, more than once, coalition Members or Members have expressed concern that meetings of the National Assembly should be closed to the public in the event of discussions on the state of the Slovenian banking system. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that in the event that the tax money is in play, when banks are recovering with tax money, that the degree of confidentiality should be withdrawn and that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia should be made aware in a transparent manner of what was happening in the banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u19	I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Mag. Miranda Groff Ferjančič.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members! A bill of similar content was tabled in the parliamentary procedure in December 2013 and February 2015 and the Government did not support any of these proposals. As there are the same professional concerns regarding this proposal, the Government does not support this proposal either. Allow me to introduce them briefly. In order to effectively and autonomously identify and explore the actual state of play for the exercise of the powers of the National Assembly, an instrument of parliamentary investigation was introduced, whose function and content are defined in detail in the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. Under this law, the National Assembly may also obtain confidential information on the various stakeholders, including private entities, when it requires such information to take legal and political decisions under its jurisdiction. On this legal basis, the Commission of Inquiry shall also, with a view to carrying out investigations, require the submission of confidential data on the bank’s committees, if necessary, in order to achieve the objectives of the Commission of Inquiry. The Banking Act also lays down, in Article 126, the obligation to protect confidential data and in the same article also governs exceptions to that obligation. The legal exceptions also include the case where another law provides for the competence of an individual body or entity to obtain confidential information from banks for the purpose of exercising its legal powers. The practice of the courts shall already be taken into account. Therefore, since the powers of the National Council for the Acquisition of Confidential Information on Bank Committees are already regulated under the current Law on Parliamentary Investigation, including rules on the treatment of confidential data and procedural guarantees protecting the constitutional positions of individuals, we consider that there is a sufficient basis for the State assembly to obtain confidential information on bank committees through the investigation commission and individual investigations where such data is required by the exercise of its constitutional powers. Complementation of the Banking Act is therefore neither necessary nor appropriate in this part, as it could point to the interpretation that the Banking Act allows for a broader interpretation of the exceptions to those resulting from the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, for which all the necessary material guarantees do not exist as regards the protection of the privacy and confidentiality of the data. According to the law, the bank's obligation to protect confidential information would not apply if the bank was terminated, whether it was a regular or a forced termination. The proposed supplement is also in this part, in the view of the Government, inadequate due to the fact that the applicant is equalising all the termination procedures of the banks, including the regular termination on the basis of a joint decision, which is carried out in order to ensure that the bank regularly and fully fulfils all its contractual obligations to the parties. Since, in the event of a regular winding-up, the bank fully fulfils all its contractual obligations and the termination does not result from the infringements of the rules in force, the Government does not consider that there is any reason to justify a public interest in re-qualifying the confidential information of the beneficiary to the information that the bank may disclose to the public. However, in order to force the bank to terminate, as a result of the alleged infringements of the rules on the part of the bank, a special provision is in place in the Bank's Rescue and Forced Cessation Act, which specifically regulates the publication of data on individual parties in order to protect the legal position of creditors in the enforcement process and thereby eliminates the confidentiality of such data. In view of all of the above, I propose that the draft law on the amendments to the Banking Act should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u21	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Members of the United Left, the last Port of the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you for saying that again. Good-bye! The stated purpose of the SDS Group by this Act is to enable the National Assembly to identify specific responsibilities for the creation of bad claims in banks receiving State aid. However, the proposal is written in such a way as to enable customer manipulation of bank data. The criteria on which the National Assembly and its bodies could gain insight into classified information are, according to our assessment, too wide and discriminatory. The first criterion is that the bank was granted State aid. This criterion is discriminatory. For example, if an official received a bribe in an account with a private bank that was not granted State aid, this information to determine the liability of the holders of political functions is as relevant as data on who signed the credit agreement with a bank that received State aid. In short, the arrangements should apply equally to all banks provided that the acquisition of such data is necessary for the work of the Commission of Inquiry or of any other qualified body. The second criterion is that data are needed by the National Assembly, the work of the National Assembly, or by the State Assembly’s Commission of Inquiry. At this point, we say that this is an overly broad definition. Of course, we agree that such information can be obtained by an investigative commission, of course, by adding that it has been previously approved by the court. Getting information from the National Assembly is dangerous for manipulation. This may mean that all Members receive them. For example, the Commission would require data from a political official on the other hand, such as a government official, and with such a law would practically have the Bianca allowed to search the bank data of its political opponents. Such a measure does not make sense to us and therefore we cannot support it. According to our assessment, the same purpose, real control, democratic control of banks could be achieved without risk. As is known, the applicable Banking Act allows for access to confidential information from the prosecution, the police and the court on the basis of an order from the investigating judge. In our view, this provision should be widely interpreted in such a way as to refer also to parliamentary investigations. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation provides that a parliamentary inquiry shall be conducted in the most sensitive areas through a court carrying out specific investigations. In our view, this is a sufficient basis for qualified groups in Parliament to obtain certain data, which is protected by bank secrecy, if there is a legitimate reason for this. In our view, the intention of the applicant would be to propose a provision that, in addition to the prosecution, the police and the courts, the parliamentary commission may also obtain such information on the basis of an order from the investigating judge. I don't think anyone would object to such a proposal, but such a formulation as it is currently written is not appropriate and allows manipulation, so we cannot support it in the United Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u23	The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, for which Mr Jožef Horvat is responsible, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Just on the days when we consider the proposal for the amendment of the Banking Act, we can hear about the possibilities for the renewal of the deadline for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Finally, the sale of Nova Ljubljanska Banka was delayed until spring 2017, and in the last days we were able to read about the extension of the sales deadline for more than 5 years. The last excuse of the Prime Minister for postponing the sale was brexit. We are anxious to see if the government will come up with a similar excuse. In the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately, we are not able to cut through the implementation of state banking. Why not? Because some, including political parties, have their ATMs in state banks. They have a lot of them, but some have ATMs where they can raise money without cover. That's the problem. And then what happens? Then there's a bank hole. This is so much more unusual if we take into account the fact that all citizens in our pockets have felt the billions of holes caused by the recapitalisation of several state banks. At the beginning of the debate on this bill, it should be made clear and clear that the best measure for rational economic and stable management of banks is their private ownership. For this reason, Christian Democrats are concerned about the rescheduling of the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. Well, yesterday's communication by Finance Minister Mateja Vraničar Erman following a meeting with Commissioner for Competition Mrs Margrethe Vestager is optimistic and we have heard that the sales procedures of the New Ljubljana Bank are normally taking place. It was interesting, however, that the Minister said this after the meeting, but she did not announce what the topic of the meetings would be before the meeting. Which means we logically conclude that the Commissioner may have said the following that commitments should be respected, and here she was referring to the document with which the European Commission was the date of December 2013, 18 December 2013 and the document SA33229. With this document, the European Commission allowed State aid to the New Ljubljana Bank amounting to €1.55 billion, of course with a catalogue of commitments. And one of these commitments is the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank by the end of this year, end of 2017. If Nova Ljubljanska banka is a system bank and if anyone thinks that we will not survive with the state system bank, then we should have made a plan B in December 2013, scenario B how to set up a new private system bank. It is not difficult to understand the anger of taxpayers when they see that, despite the fact that each of them contributed around EUR 2 000 500 to the recapitalisation hole, banking criminal proceedings are being carried out for so long and virtually no epilogue has been experienced to date. The whole bank hole wasn't caused by crimes, and we're probably all aware of that, but it must have been a significant part of it. What kind of a society is it where the culprits for the billions of bank holes exist and walk freely around the country and there is no sanction for their conduct because the law enforcement authorities could not enforce them? What do those who may be planning to commit new crimes in banking think at this time? So far, no one has been responsible for the bank hole. Why would anyone answer in the future? And in the coalition agreement, the government coalition committed itself to sanctioning bank hole drills. That is why it is difficult to understand that the government coalition has not supported New Slovenia's proposals to specialise in the work of courts and prosecutors in the field of banking crime. This would ensure that actions within the law enforcement, investigation and prosecution procedures are carried out by the persons most qualified to do so. The government coalition has also rejected our proposal to prevent persons who, in the past, used to make non-profit claims to carry out casino banking from performing their functions in the management or supervisory council of the bank. We hope that the government coalition does not understand the concept of circular economy simply as the circulation of personnel. The fact is, there's a bank box. And the fact is, these people are actually changing, so they're circling. But it's not a circular economy. The circular economy is something else entirely. And we wanted with our banking law to prevent this bank box from continuing to hamper good business results and to stop casino banking for all time. In the past, we have already witnessed the obstruction of the work of the commission of inquiry on the detection of abuses in the Slovenian banking system, when the court of parliamentary inquiry refused to hand over the documents necessary for the investigation. By adopting the bill before us, bank data that have been confidential so far will be available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly if the bank data relates to a bank that has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. It is for the sake of ensuring the smooth work of parliamentary investigative commissions in investigating banking crime that Christian Democrats will support the Proposal for a New Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u25	The text is given by the Group of the Modern Centre Party, Mrs Andreja Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u26	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues! The first-signed group of Members, Jozet Tanke, re- tabled a law to the National Assembly, which had already been tabled in December 2013 and February 2015. This time it submitted Article 126 of the new Banking Act ZBan-2. The proposed definition of Article 126 of the Banking Act, as written, is difficult. The bank secrecy to terminate for banks that have received State aid means that everyone could see all transactions and all accounts in the bank that received State aid. If it is intended to make business worse in state banks, it is a real mechanism. The rule of law shall act in such a way as to declare a crime and to bring an action before the competent authorities the rights and obligations of each individual, i.e. Members, in the event that they learn of circumstances which may give rise to suspicions of a criminal service, are brought before the competent authorities. It is sufficient for the notifier to demonstrate the grounds for the suspicion of criminal service. However, the competent authorities shall determine whether these reasons are justified or not, taking into account procedural rules and investigative powers. It is therefore not possible to establish the position that it is necessary to disclose confidential information for the work of the investigation committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in order to verify the circumstances concerning alleged offences of the holders of public powers. However, the Commission of Inquiry already has the legal basis for obtaining information through the court for the purposes of the investigation. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation is written to provide for the protection of the confidentiality of letters and other communications and for the inviolability of human privacy in the parliamentary investigation procedure. However, actions on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in respect of individual freedom shall be admissible if they are in accordance with the principle of proportionality, so that the provision of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation makes it possible to obtain confidential data as well. ZBan-2 laid down the provision of the obligation to protect confidential data in Article 126 of the Act. Thus, Article 126(3) of ZBan-2 provides that the bank must provide confidential information where such data is required in writing by the Commission to prevent corruption or is required in writing by the court, the State Prosecutor or the police, because of the conduct of a pre-trial or criminal procedure, unless the law expressly provides for the order of the investigating judge for the transmission of confidential data. Thus, the Banking Act of ZBan-2, in the third point of Article 126, legitimized the extent of access to confidential data in a way that ensures that detection and prosecution authorities are always provided with their direct and rapid acquisition. However, banks shall also be exempt under this Article from the obligation to protect confidential data when another law provides for the competence of an individual body or entities to obtain confidential information for the purposes of exercising their legal powers. Therefore, it can also be understood from the Banking Act that the Commission of Inquiry will obtain information on the procedures laid down in the Parliamentary Investigation Act. Thus, the method of data under the Law on Parliamentary Investigation is in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution, which provides for the right of judicial protection. This solution, as set out in the proposal for a novel, is not to be followed. In the light of the previous two attempts, a diction has been added to remove the confidentiality of the data at the time of the bank’s regular or forced termination. We also find this proposal difficult to understand. A regular termination of the bank means that this is done on the basis of a decision taken at the Bank Assembly, but that bank still regularly and fully fulfils all its contractual obligations to the parties, it is difficult to establish the public interest if no one has been injured. Indeed, the activity is transferred to the new acquirer and all obligations are serviced on a regular basis, so that we do not understand why interference is proposed in banks that have had no problems and have ceased because of the owner's business decisions. In the SMC Group, we will be against the fact that the law supplementing the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u27	Ms Suzanne Leup Šimenko, Slovenian Democratic Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! The rehabilitation of the Slovenian banking system has already cost us more than €5 billion, and it is of course worrying that this figure is not yet definitive, since Slovenian banks have again or still a lot of bad credits. The reasons for the second resolution of the banking system are in particular the granting of loans by friendly links, by low interest rates and by inadequate insurance. One of the reasons for the last rehabilitation of our banks certainly concerns also the lack of legislation regulating the operation of the banking system. The adoption of appropriate legislation to enable effective control is the task and responsibility of the National Assembly, or of all of us Members and Members. However, in order for Members and Members to be able to adopt relevant legislation, we need to be informed in advance of relevant data and information, but most of the data and information relating to the operation of the banking system is marked as bank secrecy and is not accessible to Members. It is understandable that banking secrecy is the basis for transactions between banks and their committees and is essential for the trust of the commissioners in their banks, but it must also have an appropriate security institution that prevents abuses. Under the current law, banking secrecy makes it impossible for competent institutions to effectively control the situation in the banking system and, as such, is often used as an excuse to conceal the wrong decisions of bank management, which have sometimes been taken at or across the legal borders, which has not been proven to be ineffective by the judicial system. In the past, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has already requested certain information from the Bank of Slovenia on the situation in the banking system, but it has never been possible to determine the responsibilities of the Bank of Slovenia, nor the responsibilities of the members of the supervisory boards and members of the management boards of the business banks who signed and gave credits without adequate insurance. According to Article 152 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia is independent in its operation, but is directly responsible to the National Assembly. Article 152, paragraph 12, of the Constitution states: "Parliament must be able to regularly analyse and control the implementation of monetary policy. The Governor of the Central Bank must always be prepared to provide explanations to Parliament and to inform all matters of monetary policy." One is the independence of the Bank of Slovenia in its operation and the other is the direct responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia to the National Assembly. The Banking Act currently in force lays down exceptions when the obligation to protect bank data is not in force. It is specified that confidential information from Banka Slovenije may be transmitted to a body which is competent for the supervision of authorities carrying out acts in the course of the compulsory liquidation or bankruptcy of a bank or in another similar procedure, but does not include the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, although it is responsible for the supervision of the work of the Government of Slovenia, which has carried out the rehabilitation or control of six banks through the recapitalisation and transfer of bad claims to the DUTB on the basis of the stress tests of 2013. It is also appropriate to include the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia among the authorities which may receive confidential information. The main reason for the adoption of this law is a change in the definition of bank secrecy, which will allow for the determination of liability for the situation in the banking system. This will help to identify who is responsible for the need to rehabilitate a banking system of over €5 billion, who is responsible for all the errors and wrong decisions of the management of Slovenian banks and the insufficient supervision of the Bank of Slovenia regulator. The main objectives of the law ahead of us are: the first is to obtain relevant data which will enable the National Assembly to adopt effective banking legislation to prevent the implementation of irregularities and inefficiency in the Slovenian banking system. The second is the disclosure of the liability of those who have participated in the granting of loans without adequate collateral in cases where the bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. The proposed solution will make bank data, which have so far been confidential, available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly and the working bodies and investigative commissions operating within the National Assembly, if the bank data relates to the bank which received State aid. This will enable the National Assembly, which also takes important decisions on the resolution of banking problems, to obtain relevant information on the situation in the banking system, to identify who is responsible for the situation and, in particular, to adopt appropriate legislation that will effectively prevent future irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will of course support the proposal to amend the Banking Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u29	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, for which Mrs. Marija Antonija Kovacič is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you! We have before us a retrial of the opposition after disclosure of the data, which constitutes a disproportionate intervention in banking secrecy. The Desus Group will also oppose such a proposal this time. Let us repeat a few key reasons why in our Group we do not think that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Despite the previous warning on our part, the applicants did not try to show a better comparative analysis of the other Member States of the European Union. Thus, the bill still provides an explanation for the burden sharing due to the recapitalisation of banks and not for the handling of confidential bank data. Therefore, such a representation of regulation in other legal systems does not have any added value in improving the understanding of the bill itself. We already have a strong enough legal tool at our disposal to access classified information. In particular, I am thinking of the work of the commission of inquiry, which, during the course of the mandate, is trying to reach agreement on what happened to the bank hole, and in particular to identify who is responsible for the situation in the Slovenian banking system. The means used by the Commission of Inquiry in its work are just quality data, better said evidence. The key law through which this option is made possible is the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which provides that a parliamentary inquiry into the most sensitive areas is carried out through a court carrying out specific investigations or carrying out certain evidence. That is why we also have in the country competent authorities and institutions to deal with such tasks. Further disclosure of confidential information beyond the statutory powers of the commission of inquiry is, in our view, unacceptable. This would cause additional confusion, particularly a lack of confidence in the already disputed and distorted banking system, which would only exacerbate the stability of banks. In doing so, we must say that in the Desus Group, we are not against finding those responsible for the chaos of the bank, and they are responding accordingly. Citizens deserve this right because it was millions of recapitalisations that were covered in their pockets. Of course, we would be happy to see this story come to a good conclusion as soon as possible. In the end, we could be reminded of past actions, but at the same time an excellent starting point, how we will act so that we do not make the same mistakes and learn from them. In the Desus Group, we also believe that revealing the confidential personal data of individuals would open up room for political abuse and abuse, so, as I have already said, we will support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u31	Mr Janko Weber, the Group of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u32	Thank you for your words and once again a nice greeting to everyone on behalf of the Social Democrats Group, where we want to highlight, in the context of the consideration of today's banking law in the introduction, the importance of banking confidentiality for people, for every person who uses banking services, who is the holder of a transaction account that uses payment transactions and rents and repays loans. It is precisely to protect such a relationship with people by banks that confidentiality is needed. It is a matter of the fact that, as a rule, natural persons guarantee their property for their loans and are not, in fact, those who cause a so-called bank hole or a bad claim because they have it secured by their property. And it is right that both their property and, of course, their way of borrowing credit and using credit be kept confidential. Secondly, if, of course, in these procedures, we face banking crime caused either by bank officials or by the misuse of this kind of confidentiality in order to achieve an unlawful advantage. As a rule, these irregularities shall be carried out in the case of legal persons, not in the case of natural persons. And the proposal before us provides that the obligation to protect confidential information provided for in Article 126 of the Law does not apply if the Bank has received State aid or is subject to measures under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and that data is required by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly's working body or the National Assembly's Investigative Commission. It also provides that, in the event of a bank’s termination, whether it is a regular or compulsory termination, the obligation to protect confidential data shall not apply. This is the point that, of course, we are also trying to clear in the National Assembly through a commission set up to detect irregularities and, of course, also the possible involvement of officials in the fact that bad claims have arisen or that people have had to recapitalise banks for more than EUR 5 billion. This is more than half of the Slovenian budget. When people invest money in the resolution of the banking system, it is right that they also have access to information as owners of these banks. In this process, I reiterate, it is necessary to protect all natural persons who regularly repay their obligations and have secured their property, compared to those who may have misused the confidentiality of the data in order to obtain a loan, for example, unsecured or not to spend it at all for what was envisaged. When people invest money in a bank to remedy such a situation, it is right that they also have an insight into this data as owners of the bank. I am confident that further consideration of this law will clear up any questions as to whether we are still protecting the data of natural persons who are regularly paying off their obligations, and that there will be, for example, a lack of confidentiality, abuse of this way or attitude towards natural persons. All of this, I think we can certainly clean up through the debate. It is right that, even in Slovenia, if we have not already been able to take such measures as Iceland has taken, but at least allow the National Assembly as a representative of the people to receive all relevant information on the so-called bad claims and measures taken under the Banks Stability Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u33	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. First, a representative of the Magi's proposer took the floor. Marco Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u34	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. We have concluded by presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups and in the Slovenian Democratic Party, according to the positions of the coalition parliamentary groups in particular, we can see that our addition to the amendment of the Banking Act will not be supported. Also on the part of the Government, it is suggested that the law is not suitable for further consideration, which is quite clear how this government, Mira Cerar, and the coalition of the Modern Centre's Parties, the Social Democrats and Desus, have, of course, been defined for this proposal. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are likely to be concerned about this development, which is happening in the Slovenian banking system, particularly in the detection of responsibility. In a way, we get the feeling that this coalition and this government are not in the interest of saying that those who have cooked this bank hole, which we have saved by taxpayers of more than €5 billion, would also be able to disclose responsibility, or that this path to revealing responsibility could also be reduced. We all know that we have listened to the report of the Investigation Commission to identify abuses in the Slovenian banking system, that time is probably one of the greatest risk factors in the case of obsolete deadlines. In particular, as a result of the long-term acquisition of these data, it acts as a time component of the risk of limitation. And here, on the one hand, it is unclear to us, I am sure that the National Assembly should make such a way that, as we propose, the entire National Assembly, on the other hand, as well as the Commission for the detection of abuses in the banking system, in an easy and fast way, can obtain data. From the report itself, we can come up with a result which, on the one hand, can also be shocking, we know that the courts in Slovenia act as they do, and that there are a number of obstacles to obtaining this data. On the other hand, in this amendment of the law itself, we have proposed in the event that the bank closes itself, that there will be regular liquidation or supervised liquidation, as we had in the case of two private banks, Probanks and Factor Banks, that the confidentiality of the data will no longer exist. We find that no harm would be done. We also know that somehow in the National Assembly we must act as Members and Members in accordance with the Secret Information or Confidential Data Act. At least for me, it's a scandal that we saved two private banks at the expense of taxpayers' money. They're in the Probanka and Factor Bank game. And there are probably still a number of unanswered issues, mainly by the government, by the Bank of Slovenia and, finally, by the Bank of Slovenia, also by the Company for Bank Claims Management, the so-called bad bank. As a result of the decision to attach these two small private banks, which have been rehabilitated by the taxpayer's money, to the DUTB and not to follow the original objective of going into the process of so-called supervisory liquidation, the Company for the Management of Bank Claims had to recapitalise with 50 million, re-taxable money. Earlier, in the position of the Desus Group, it was clear that in the proposal we had not sufficiently argued the comparison with the other legal systems of the other European Union countries. Honourable Members and Members of Desus, Slovenia is the only transit country in Europe that has restored the banking system for the second time at the expense of taxpayers. The last rescue cost us $5 billion. And see, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that no legal system within the European Union has as bad a banking system as Slovenia has. And also the results of Slovenian banks, compared to other banks, not only within the European Union, but also within the countries of Europe itself, and in the world as well, we can see that the results of Slovenian banks are devastating. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that where there is tax money, it would be fair for taxpayers to know what this money was spent on. The scandal of two small private banks, Probanks and Factor Banks, I am convinced that political responsibility should also be established here in particular. The fact is that the country had huge deposits in these two small banks, disproportionate to the market share held by these two banks. and, above all, that the state has made more than 1 billion state guarantees. To this day, we cannot somehow disclose who were the ministers who approved the placement of deposits in these two banks. Who were those ministers who signed the guarantees for these two banks? And look, on the one hand, I will now say, at the next meetings of the committees or meetings of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, I do not expect any more of the members and members of the coalition, that you will then vouch at these meetings, why the meeting should be closed to the public, why this is not done transparently, so that it is time for these responsible persons to be presented to the public as well. When the cameras go out, you explain a lot, but when we have to decide to move forward, and to allow the responsibility to be determined as quickly as possible, not. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance has very nicely summarized in the beginning the history of how many times the Slovenian Democratic Party has already tabled an amendment and the amendment of the proposal to amend the Banking Act. With this sole purpose, for we are sure, once again, it would be fair to the taxpayers. On the one hand, I was surprised that most of these parliamentary groups, which you said would not give your support to these changes, would somehow refer to an investigative committee. We do not speak in this law, if necessary, of amending the Law of the Commission of Inquiry. The Commission of Inquiry, I am convinced that it works well to act solely with one goal, for what has also been established – first and foremost, the determination of this responsibility for the resulting bank hole. However, they have difficulties in obtaining these data, and above all, I am sure that this change and addition could ensure that these data will be made more quickly, especially from the point of view of the risk of obsolescence of all these actions in the Slovenian banking system. On the other hand, we have tabled this bill, amendments to the ordinary procedure. This means that we have our first reading today, but several times in the mandate of the government of Mir Cerar or the coalition of parties to the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats and Desus we are witnessing the same story. This means, what the opposition proposes, the coalition decides that the law is inappropriate for further consideration, and in particular the representative or State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance has called on coalition Members and Members: the law is not suitable for further consideration. I really do not understand what the coalition is so afraid to disclose this information, but I am sure that for such a policy implemented by this government and this coalition, somehow the way is likely to be paved for the third time in Slovenia that taxpayers will have to rehabilitate the banking system. Look, I am also sure that the damage is being done to our largest system bank, in particular the statements of the Prime Minister of the Government, who somehow speaks in public about how it is not a good time to privatise this bank and the sales procedures are somehow going on. The Minister of Finance flies to Brussels, probably got a very cold shower in Brussels yesterday because she received a clear position by the European Commission not to deviate from the commitments made by Slovenia to this commission or that our largest system bank, which is 100% owned by the Republic of Slovenia, must be sold by the end of this year. I am sure that today we should have sales procedures in the final phase if we are to sell this bank with quality. Today, as we can read, nothing has happened for six months. They all hoped that the European Commission would somehow lift that commitment or allow Slovenia to do so. I am sure that in all these procedures the National Assembly should be better informed about what is going on. The government and the Ministry of Finance are voicing at the Slovenian State Holding: We have nothing to do with this, with state property managed by the Slovenian State Holding. Slovenian State Holding: we do not get information, it is under the authority of the Government and under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. Which makes sense to me, because the country is 100 % owner and country, the Ministry of Finance, the President of the Government should clearly say the position here. And I'm sure you're damaging the sales process with all these statements. And above all, again, who's gonna pull this short? The taxpayers will pull this short.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u35	Now she has the word Mrs Urška Ban, to prepare Dr Ange Logar and Mr Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u36	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Today, we are considering a proposal prepared by the SDS Group of Members to amend Article 126 of the Banking Act, which deals with the duty to protect confidential data. With this solution, which is proposed in this Act, bank data which are confidential in nature were also available for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly, for the purposes of the work of the National Assembly bodies and the Commission of Inquiry in the event that these data relate to a bank which has received State aid or has received measures under the Bank Resolution Act. Now, given that we also have a representative of the Ministry of Finance, I would nevertheless address one question, in this case it is a matter of changing my fundamental principle of trust between the bank and the party which is the basis for the operation of banks and trust in banks. Compared to the other countries mentioned in this bill, this comparison focuses only on bank resolution methods but not on disclosure of bank secrecy. And I would ask, the Ministry of Finance, if it has this information, what is the practice of disclosing banking secrecy also to parliaments in other euro area countries. I myself do not know such a solution, but perhaps certain solutions or certain legal arrangements exist. If I go further to the mere provision of this bill, the third point added in Article 126, I do not think that the intention of the proposer was certainly not to search the current accounts of the bank's committees or political officials on an average basis with this provision. The purpose was clearly presented by the applicant. I support this purpose. However, we may consider further if the law receives adequate support to supplement this article. I think it would be worth considering the conditions under which the National Assembly could request the transmission of information and consider setting out the purpose of the use justifying the intervention in banking secrecy, all in order to protect those committees that regularly pay all their obligations to banks. And I also agree that the Commission of Inquiry must obtain all the information it needs in its work, as it is ultimately set up to investigate the responsibility of the co-founders of the bank hole. And how to do that if he doesn't have access to the data. We know what riddles he's dealing with. I believe that such a way of obtaining data, when it lasts for several months, is certainly not effective. Many times in previous meetings, in previous discussions, it has been heard that access to the confidentiality of the data of banks reduces the confidentiality of the banking system so as to prevent the manipulation of classified data. Yes, I agree that banking secrecy is a prerequisite for trust in the banking system. But in this place I also wonder what is the precondition for trusting our citizens, citizens, taxpayers in the adopted budget documents that we accept. It is precisely in these budget documents that we foresee the task of covering the bank hole. And for several years and a few more years, we'll also be high interest in paying off credits that have been hired to cover a bank hole, if I say so. I wonder whether we Members have the right to ask, in the light of the transparency of the spending of taxpayers' money, who we are paying these interest for, how much we pay these interest and why we have to cancel certain public spending at the expense of these interest, which, from many debates so far, has been shown, is very much needed for the field of young people, new employment, education and, of course, other areas. I believe that not only do we have the right to ask Members, we also have the right to know the information I have said. Therefore, in the next debate, it would make sense to focus the debate on how to complement this article in the search for solutions, including those that I initially stated that this provision would somehow be written in an optimal manner. And now there is something else that can be said about confidential information, even when it has been said many times that it will be accessible to everyone. Even in the National Assembly, we are faced with a series of confidential data, which we also process in accordance with the rules, so that the same rules would probably apply to such data. As the purpose of this law, the proposer also states that this law will allow for the adoption of more effective banking legislation to prevent irregularities and inefficiency in the banking system. In my opinion, we already have a lot of legislation that prevents irregularities and inefficiency in the functioning of the Slovenian banking system. This legislation is already in force but needs to be implemented effectively. Banka Slovenije submitted more than 100 suspected irregularities in Slovenian banks during the period of high credit growth. Most of the cases are still in the police or the prosecution's pre-trial proceedings. What's the problem? Is there a slow court? We awaited our first legal judgment at the end of 2016 in the case of Factor Bank [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Stage one, yeah, that's it. Is this problem in the slow functioning of the courts or in the knowledge of prosecutors, judges? I don't know, maybe in the absence of criminal legislation, which I think should be changed in the part of the definition of banking crime, which would allow for more efficient work, as well as the work of investigators and courts. We have heard in today's debate that the Government does not support this bill either. I'd have a question for the government here. These measures to achieve these objectives, which the applicant points out, do not support, but I am interested in your opinion, or do you support, or do you see any other measures that would pursue these objectives, which are probably supported by all of us. Do you see any other measures? Which ones are they? Do you feel that, as it is, it is sufficiently and properly arranged? As I have already said, I will listen to today's debate and hope that we can also find solutions to this law, which could be complemented in further discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr Ange Logar has the word to prepare Mr Jožef Horvat and Mrs Nada Brinovšek. Here you go, Dr. Logar.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, Count Ferjančič, did you listen to the words of your colleague Banova, president of the Committee on Finance? If I do a little caricature, she's our finance minister, president of the Finance Committee. You're just the secretary of state at the Ministry, whose minister we've appointed here in the National Assembly, the ruling coalition. There were some very serious arguments here, which are absolutely contrary to what you told us. Open for discussion is the first reading, but we all have the same goal of pursuing banking crime to expose the culprits. If you refuse to do so, what do you offer in return? Because obviously the system isn't working. Did you listen to that? Because if I read your reply, the government's response, to this proposal, the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal regarding the amendment or amendment of the Banking Act, I will read everything before what a fellow Member, the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has now presented. Among other things, you wrote down, even damaged by the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the introduction: "Introducing legislative proposals is an acceptable form of continuous political action, but we note that such action also hampers the consideration of other legislative proposals." Yes, what have we prevented you from doing with the proposal we tabled regarding the amendment of banking legislation? If you have such a ploy of new banking laws that would solve the problem of bank criminals walking freely across our country or abroad, where in particular have we prevented you from writing something like this? Whether your problem is that you don't find any arguments against it, so write one of those, I'll say, inappropriate text, or you're out of ideas on how to actually figure out or find the ones responsible for the bank hole. If you have run out of ideas, here is one of the possible solutions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and worth discussing. Do you know what the problem is with this coalition? The problem with this coalition is credibility. You have entered into a coalition contract, in that financial work, somewhere, I think in the third paragraph, that searching for those responsible for the bank hole is one of the priorities of this government. Now I want to know what you've done in this area. What have you done in this area? It's been written for the last year of your term, but nothing has been done. More than that, don't stick to your vows. Why did Minister Vraničar Erman get a cold shower yesterday when she went to negotiate with the European Commission to extend her mandate, and they said to her: "My dear, the commitment must be respected. If you have paid tax money, then carry out what you have signed in full consciousness.” At the time this was signed, Mrs Vraničar was the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. The European Union, Commissioners for Competitiveness have eyes, ears, read what is going on every day. If you are the European Commission 6. 9. 2013 Please promise that in three years you will shut down the two private banks of Forum 21 that we have paid with tax money, you cannot then change this decision in 2015 and 2016 and put them on DUBB, you cannot. After you do so, then when you extend this state of affairs to two private banks and just transfer their employees and unpaid portfolio, which should be sold out within three years, to a bad bank, then you come to the European Commission to do so with the New Ljubljana Bank in order to extend it for five years. Then the Minister of Agriculture comes along to try the same thing with the terrace. Look, it's not working. If you've signed something, you have to stick to it. If you are aware in the coalition contract that your purpose, one of the key priorities, is to find out who is responsible for the formation of the bank hole, then you must do so, not change. As colleague Pogačnik said, Slovenia, I don't know, there is no country on the European Union that would just in turn every two decades, obviously earlier, repair the banking system, while at the same time chasing no one. Look at the specific case that we've come up with. Someone who had a high salary, I am talking about Mr Kramar, who was appointed by a man sitting in the Cabinet of President Cerar as then President of the Supervisory Council, who made a large barn in the New Ljubljana Bank at the time he was chairman of the administration. He won the prize — what? A million euros. He's got a million euros. He was in a well-paid position at the New Ljubljana Bank. The one who has given him this opportunity is sitting in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Cerar. There was a bank hole in Nova Ljubljanska Banka. Who pays for it? You too, Mrs. Groff Ferjančič. Two thousand 500 euros, and so do you. Then you come here and you say, "Introducing legislative proposals is, however, permissible, but this hinders us in the preparation of other legislative proposals." That's your answer, while someone has a million, he's done what he did, and there's no consistency for that. And that's the answer for us in the pursuit of banking crime. You're talking about not supporting this because we've already proposed this in 2013 in 2015. Then excuse me if we have an investigative committee that can obtain these documents. In December 2013, you could not say that we have an investigative commission that can obtain documents because it could not obtain them. In 2015, in February, you could not say that the Commission of Inquiry had obtained these documents because it could not because the courts had blocked them and it was necessary to bring matters to the Constitutional Court so that we could obtain the data once. You are now using the commission of inquiry as an excuse for not having to change the Banking Act as an excuse. I don't know how you're going after banking crime, which you have written in a coalition contract, unless you're prepared to do absolutely nothing in this area. And then you write down, you went to Mr. Kramar's defense, you write: "It would be unjustifiable to attribute state aid procedures, i.e. payments from our pockets to banks when bank holes were created, only to alleged irregularities in the operation of the bank, as the reasons could be wider." What were you trying to say? Five billion euros. Now, tell me, we have recapitalised 5 banks in this last recapitalisation – Which bank was it not a crime? Come on, let's go, Mrs. Groff Ferjančič, Nova Ljubljanska Banka – Are all the external circumstances or have SDT filed any criminal charges or is the NPU investigating any suspicion of a crime? Let's go, shall we? Yeah. Let's move on. New Maribor Credit Bank — Is it all a web of external circumstances and unfortunate factors, or was it a suspicion of a crime, or was a criminal charge filed? She was. Let's move on, Banka, Banka Celje. A web of circumstances or a crime. It's working. Factor Bank, Probanka – The online situation in Forum 21 orbit was it a crime? It's working. Where, then, do you excuse this sentence: “It would be unjustifiable for State aid procedures to occur to banks only in the event of alleged irregularities in the operation of banks, as the reasons could also be wider.” Where? Where did you find the basis for this sentence? Last time he reported to the investigative commission, SDT wrote about 250 criminal offences or suspected of total property damage over EUR 900 million. So it was 25% in the entire recapitalisation for crimes. And you're still saying that it's not necessarily a crime, but one quarter of what we've been paying for is, in the opinion of SDT, an official institution, a crime. The government, however, has recorded a third prosecution of the culprits for a bank hole. It's kind of not working out. And when you protect that regular bank termination, czech is regular, because this 126th article also states in the case of a regular bank termination in order to release this data. If I'm not mistaken, LHB stopped regularly. And there it was — what? Business – all b.p., no problem, no crime. Do you know how many bad portfolios they had in their wallet? More importantly than in the matrix. You probably know when you saw that data, you must have had a headache. And you still claim that all the banks that were thus abolished by a congregation decision had very high proportions of unprofitable claims. And I said earlier about credibility, earlier in the presentation of positions, my colleague Horvat said very well, see, they proposed the introduction of a specialised court, and you said that you did not. And we're at it again, with non-creditability. We have proposed a decision on the establishment of a specialised court in the commission of inquiry. You supported him, you supported him. 78 votes in favour, no objection. Then a concrete proposal comes before you, although I expected the Minister of Justice to propose it, I believe that today it is difficult for him to monitor how his wife is losing the case of coercion before the Slovenian courts, despite receiving EUR 900 000 for these proceedings. He's probably having a hard time because you can't justify it, damn it. And he didn't come up with that proposal. She suggested one of the opposition parties, and you firmly rejected what you confirmed two months ago in the National Assembly. Now tell me if this is credible. Is that credible? I see a very large lack of credibility here. I was disturbed by what my colleague from the United Left said, so that those documents would then be obtained by Members in this case, and that would seem dangerous to him. Look, this is really a lack of confidence in the work of Members of Parliament. We, when we become Members, commit ourselves to respect certain respects, access to classified information, to business secrecy, trust and so on, and we respect that and we have respected it so far. Look, in the partial report of the investigative commission, personal data were directly involved in banking crime, and there was not one issue that came out. So we know, we know when we have this data, but if we want to politically account with someone on the other side, we don't accept something that would probably be useful to accept, and then we use it as an argument to reject this proposal. But, look, this mistrust inside, it's unacceptable. If one of the Members does not trust the other Members, it means that he does not actually trust his own Members, because by his own judgment the rest. But I believe that most Members are not like that, but give those who can see what is good for the country and also follow it, and these national or group interests put the interests of the state ahead of some short-term political interests. The proposal we are proposing is important. The evidence that we can draw up an appropriate legislative proposal is necessary, otherwise that is not the case. And criminals have said many times that they have difficulty obtaining bank records. We've had a lot of meetings about this, and today I've had criminals looking for some paperwork about banks today. This is what happens daily and obviously is a problem if they come here to the National Assembly, if they come to the President of the Commission of Inquiry, we obviously have some, maybe even some advantage, that we can come up with a document that maybe criminals can't, or we can tell you where the document is. And now, if this is one, it goes with factor 90 one, but if this is 90 it goes with factor 90 ahead, and criminals can do much faster business and work and identify as a primary institution and identify crimes. Let me get this straight. On the basis of these findings of confidential data and bank secrecy received by the Bank of Slovenia and business banks, the Commission of Inquiry in the interim report is also preparing some legislative changes, this time in the field of procedural law enforcement, November 2016. Earlier, State Secretary Groff Ferjančič said that we had already proposed this in December 2013 and then in February 2015. We have proposed these proposals in the light of the conclusions we have met in November 2016. Now you can imagine that I would have been aware of this by December 2013, when this proposal was adopted. Where would we be today investigating banking crime? Or at least February 2015. We would have had more than a year and a half or even three years of advantage or banking criminals would have less time than three years. Now, Mrs. Groff Ferjančičič, is it in your interest that they had more time than three years? Is it in your interest? Yeah, then why are you against it? Why were you against 2013? Why were you against 2015? And why are you against it today? Once again, I hope that what she has said today, President of the Committee on Finance, I sincerely hope that this is the position of the Party of the Modern Centre, because this is the position that reflects the entry in the coalition agreement. That's the position. Now it's only a question of whether only some of you can read a coalition treaty or actually stand for what your president has signed. Or, thirdly, this commitment became obsessive when one of the former top bankers who participated in the banks where this bank hole was created entered his cabinet. Look, it's up to you. We have proposed a proposal that can be adapted accordingly in future readings. If you follow the record in the coalition contract, you'll put it in another read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor to prepare Mrs Nada Brinovšek and Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Dr Logar has already briefly mentioned the coalition agreement on page 10, paragraph 3, which reads as follows: "Research of the bank hole and definition of responsibility to ensure the recovery of confidence in the financial institutions, supervisory institutions and the legal state institute, the legal state institution, must define responsibility for the resulting bank hole and demand the compensation and material liability of members of the administrations and supervisory boards of the recapitalised banks. The responsibility for carrying out the investigation of the bank hole shall be transferred from the DUTB to the Bank of Slovenia and, in the case of suspected criminal offences, to the competent law enforcement authorities.” As far as I know, Banka Slovenije has already written more than 70 complaints, which fall from the current tape and I think they have decided not to write any more complaints, criminal charges, because it is Sisyphus's work. But now, what I read was signed by the leaders of three coalition parties: Dr. Miroslav Cerar, mag. Dejan Židan and Karl Viktor Erjavec. This is probably what the Minister of Justice read or was aware of, and I hope that he was involved in the coalition agreement, Mr Klemenčič. However, he would once have been on a single body called the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, and the Senate which chaired him on 29 November 2013 resigned irrevocably. And he wrote a very nice letter, yes, and to us also to President Pahor, President of the Government of Alenka Bratušek, President and President of Parliamentary Parties, members of the Government and residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. A letter to touch you. Very well written. That's right. Paper carries everything. But when you get a mandate, let's say you're the Justice Minister, and then put your hands in your pocket. After two thirds or three quarters of the term of office – What happens? Nothing. Nothing, not under the title of the coalition agreement, not under some of the laws proposed by the Government as a rule concerning the prosecution of banking crime here mainly by the right-wing bloc of the opposition and no one else. We'll insist. We'll insist. Well, now this letter, because I can't give you a link, but just Google it and you'll find it, and here these gentlemen, so this Senate of KPK – I have to commend and applaud, a really nice letter. But now only one small thing is needed — from words to actions. And here, among other things, are the reasons for their resignation. And they say, "It was published today..." So on November 29th, when victory day was once. “Today, the new Global Corruption Index Transparency International was published, where Slovenia fell on record again and between European countries. This is the year 2013, similar to last year 2012. There is no international indicator showing a positive trend with regard to Slovenia in recent years in terms of the quality of governance, integrity and the fight against corruption. This has been widely pointed out in the annual reports for 2010, 2011, 2012, none of these reports have yet been discussed at the plenary session of the National Assembly." Interesting. We're dealing with a lot of things, and that's not what we're dealing with. Okay, but then there are some very interesting recommendations in this letter. And it seems that this law, which we are currently considering, follows these recommendations and, of course, the Banking Act proposed by Nova Slovenija, as well as our proposal for a specialised prosecution and court proposed by Nova Slovenija, all of this is somehow following this letter and is, once again, very good. In point 2, this then withdrawn Senate proposes the establishment of a public and transparent investigation of the bank hole. The hole in the Slovenian banking system will be the cost of taxpayers, in other words the loss of banks has been socialised. For this reason, the cost of bailing out banks will be covered by the taxpayer's money, so the use of this money must not and cannot be kept secret, as is usually the case in banking. Do we now understand bank secrecy? It's about the money we gave up. 2 million citizens of this country have thrown money into a bank hole and now some of you say, oh, this has to be a secret. Really? This is about the money we gave you, almost five billion? Does this have to be a secret now, dear God? “In view of the scale and consequences of the bank hole, we propose: the establishment of a public investigation based on the model of Iceland.” Sounds good, Minister Klemenčič was in Iceland a few months ago, two threes. “The investigations referred to in the previous indent shall have all the necessary data-collection instruments, regardless of the level of confidentiality and the conduct of interviews with persons, and shall also be subject to appropriate high penalties for non-response to the requirements for the issuance of documentation and the transmission of data.” First. “As the objectives of the public investigation are defined as follows: to determine why this has happened, who are the key players, against whom it is possible to act civilly, criminally, to take away illicit property benefits, how to prevent a similar story from happening again, and if it turns out that something cannot be determined where the reasons for this are and how to prevent such practices from being concealed in the future. The deadline within which the investigation must be completed shall be...« You will not believe: “12 months”. So 29 November 2013 plus 12 months is 29 November 2014. Today we're nothing. First. “The findings of the investigation must be public. However, the whole file is of a public nature following the completion of the investigation. At the initiative of the Minister of Finance, KPK carried out a comprehensive review or assessment of corruption risks in the implementation of the Bad Bank Act in July 2013 and found a catastrophic situation...” and so on and so on. Who's following this letter now? New Slovenia and SDS. Minister Klemenčič, who wrote it beautifully, I repeat the third time, wrote it beautifully, today is the Minister of Justice. This is one special ministerial function and is also the most responsible for restoring citizens' confidence in the rule of law. I hope we all understand what the rule of law is. But of course there's a banking box that doesn't just contain bankers, which contains a very wide range of people. The late Bajuk has repeatedly said: "Everything is so screwed up, everything is so screwed up." Of course, it's all intertwined and you really have to have a lot of will, the insistence on actually breaking these knots, cutting them. And the only body in this country that is working in this direction is the Logari Commission, if I may call it, the parliamentary commission of inquiry. In this place, I also thank the leadership of the National Assembly, who found the money so that we could at least symbolically reward those professional colleagues of this commission who are helping us to study materials that are very eloquent. In this letter, which I have read in part, the warning is that we need to create an environment so that the bank hole does not repeat itself because it can happen again. See, we still had 4.9 billion non-performing claims in the Slovenian banking system at the end of 2015. If I may provide more recent data from Banka Slovenije from the monthly business information of the banks, December 2016, the non-performing exposure for September 2016 is EUR 3.7 billion. Fantastic money, 3.7 billion. The trend is fine, end of 2015 4,9, September 2016 3.7 billion, but it is still a fantastic number. But I say that because nothing happens, because this government coalition, which has the greatest power in this country, which is set up for the government and must rule, it does nothing, from here I logically conclude that the financial interest behind it is financial. That this government coalition also has ATMs in state banks and raises money without cover. I also have money at the state bank, but I don't get a cent without cover and I don't want it. And, ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to do something for these citizens, because otherwise we are truly, especially the ruling, just a big mouth. Full-mouthed promise of how we'll be. We haven't done anything, and the mandate's expired. And now the snitching, the minister went to the Commissioner for Competitiveness, and they probably negotiated and debated how not to sell the New Ljubljana Bank, which is just one of the commitments in that document that I have quoted many times, SA 33229. SA is probably a state aid – state aid of €1.55 billion. And there is talk in several points about commitments, first and foremost about restructuring the bank and then, of course, privatisation. But when I read the distinguished people again today, here I think of former Governor Gaspari, who says, but if the European Commission has prescribed how NLB should be restructured and how it should be privatised, then it is best that the European Commission buys NLB itself. Can you imagine the seriousness of the statement once made by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia? Read one of today's journals. This isn't serious. This isn't serious. And then, of course, we call this ugly European Commission what they're doing to us! Come on, we need to get home first and take care of our own credibility. And it is time, colleagues and colleagues, to reflect on the support of the law before us. Our job is to adopt laws if you want, in accordance with the writing of Mr Klemenčič, formerly President of the KPK, today's Justice Minister. Of course I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs Nada Brinovšek has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Janko Weber. Here you go, Mrs. Nada Brinovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you very much, very nice greetings to everyone in the hall! I must say that it is quite difficult to speak in terms of what they have said and what the predecessors have discussed, says Mr Horvat and my colleague Ange, who are real experts in this area, is said in the area of banking and finance, which unfortunately I am not. At the outset, I would also like to say that I liked the debate of a coalition colleague, the president of the Committee on Finance, especially when she said that we had the right to ask Members in the National Assembly and to know where the money went from the budget, and why we should not ask where the money was going — or we are so familiar with it — which was intended to cover the bank hole and, of course, the retail interest, if I say so. I liked your debate, Urska, even in the work where you said we could handle classified information, and that's not the only area in which we meet in the field of banking with classified information. We have a number of areas that we meet here in the National Assembly, just with these classified information. Even with regard to the slowness of work and the conduct of the courts, even in this part, I strongly agree with you and with your debate. My colleague Logarje finally said he hoped that we would convince the coalition and that you would end up supporting this proposal. Of course, he probably relied primarily on the debate of his colleague or the president of the Committee on Finance here, but if we have listened to the position of the Group, I think this will be hard. The Banking Act, which was preceded by this Banking Act, I think about 200 articles, which we adopted in 2015, covers over 400 articles. I remember, when we adopted him, he was amended with over 150 or between 140 and 150 amendments, but the fact is that this law is still not good. This law is still not good and still causes anomalies and still causes them to continue to work, I will say in the slogans, bank holes. And this law still does not allow or still prevent the National Assembly from obtaining data from banks that the bank claims are bank secrecy to determine who is guilty and, of course, who is responsible for the bad operation of banks and this bank hole. The fact is that we still do not have any levers to prevent this exercise of these irregularities, which we have already imposed today or my predecessors and which are, of course, happening in banks. And the fact is that banks are not responsible, banks are still politically staffed, and the fact is that someone should be responsible for all of this, I point out, of course. And all of these facts, it is said that banks are not acting responsibly to frame themselves politically, that no one is responding, all of these facts have led us to recapitalise this banking system twice, lastly in 2013 at 5 billion. And this money, don't forget, dear colleagues, or let's not forget, this money has gone out of the pockets of our citizens. I don't think we can pretend to care. We don't care if the money went out of someone's pocket who's already living on some extreme edge and doesn't have the basic survival. However, the fact that this is the case is that loans were, of course, given on the basis of friendly and political ties. That's a fact, too. And those who, of course, signed these treaties, were convinced that nothing could happen to them completely. And I have to say that this is true, because until today nothing has happened to them and it was those who signed contracts in this belief that nothing would happen to them were somewhere on the right path when they were sure they would not. Those who sign some credit that signs the contract must also ensure that the contract is executed. And in this banking case, it has to somehow ensure that the money goes back to the bank, but with certain interest. And it's clear, once again, I'm going to tell you who's preparing the contract and whether it might even be prepared perfectly so that it can be used or recovered by itself in order to get around it. I have to say, when I listened to the views of some of the parliamentary groups, it seemed to me that some in here really didn't care what was going on in the banking area. If we continue to behave this way, we will undoubtedly be following and another bank hole is forecasting, which I think we should be very afraid of, or, I will say, we should avoid this very much. It's over. With this proposal again after a year and a half, all we want to do is somehow end this cover-up, the wrong decisions of certain people in banks that have brought our country where we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor to prepare Mr Janko Weber and the mags. Matthew Tonin. Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! In fact, we have one very important point ahead of us, which we have been talking about practically for the past few years. Most of the time, when we speak, we all agree that this issue needs to be resolved in the direction of greater openness to the data that the banks are hiding from us, but when we come to concrete decisions and concrete proposals, the issue is largely divided into those who propose something and those who reject it. Moreover, today it has been heard by colleagues from the United Left who have much to say about how to prosecute crime, corruption and everything else, how this is in some ways now a political tool that we are proposing, and on the other hand, we all know that all the commissions in the National Assembly are responsible for seeking political responsibility, saying that there is nothing wrong with this proposal. Even more strange or misunderstanding of this proposal was their definition that we would be able to persecute some people who had received loans from private banks or that we would not be able to get them and that this is some argument why they would not support this amendment. Now I wonder what's wrong with someone in a private bank getting some credit. That's his problem. The problem is what colleague Anže warned us when we transfer private banks without any argument and against the commitments we have made to the European Union to a bad bank. At that time, these credits and poor investments become part of the responsibility of the National Assembly, including us Members, and from this point of view these loans, which have also been transferred, are subject to this solution that we are proposing. I hope you've read it. It is also possible to access certain data in banks that have received State aid by the National Assembly. Now, if my colleagues don't trust themselves, which has already been warned, that's their problem. However, I believe that all of us who have signed certain confidentiality documents have done so in full consciousness, not with a fig in our pocket. And I really want to know how you're going to end up voting in this law, because in all the documents you have signed in the coalition, the pursuit of a bank hole is first. According to everyone most competent to prosecute this banking crime, this is also a first priority. Some go abroad to look for good practices, but these practices obviously do not come true in us. Apparently, they're going abroad to look for other jobs, not a solution to our banking system. Just as obvious as your commitment to detecting a bank hole, which is one of the first priorities, it is also happening in an investigation into the Šostanj Termoelectrica and the sixth block, where you have stated publicly and in a coalition contract that this will be one of the first priorities and that you will set up an independent investigative commission to investigate it, and nothing is going on in this direction. So your goal is to put your head in the sand. Public explanation of how you are for transparency, persecution of crime and corruption, and in fact when the document is on the table, when it comes to a fairly simple law that you probably all understand, there is only one article that talks about it, and it is not a difficult topic that you would not understand, but it is obviously not a reference to whether or not someone understands something, but how you get ordered to vote. I hope that you will slowly understand your role in the National Assembly that you are Members of the citizens who are paying for these poor investments in the banking system, not the operators of some policy that comes from some quasi-logs. It gives me hope, at least, to the debate of the President of the Finance Commission, who has very frankly presented that this step is a step in the right direction so that it can be complemented through another reading, but in any case it is the right instrument, which should somehow receive support. I hope at tomorrow's vote you still support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the word to prepare the mags. Matthew Tonin and Mrs Eva Irgle. Here you go, Mr. Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye to everyone again! With regard to the protection of confidential data, and also with regard to the provisions relating to banking, of course, at the time that such provisions were enshrined in the Banking Act and other related laws, it was thought that all those who would take over the management of both banks or the highest regulator in Slovenia in this area of Banka Slovenije would also fully justify this confidence in the public. This is an additional commitment, a degree of confidentiality. Of course, it is a very serious crime at a time when the level of confidentiality can be used to conceal certain data that is, of course, needed, for example, the National Assembly to be able to carry out its task effectively, which is, above all, the control and, lastly, the use of resources invested by people in the banking system. However, we must say that the consequences of the fact that people have invested more than 5 billion in the Slovenian banking system are particularly felt by those people who had nothing in common with the bank hole. However, their salaries are lower because of this, restrictions in the public sector on progress, reduced regression, lower social rights, lower pensions, lower regression in pensioners – all of this is due to these actions. If people have already invested money in banks, with this recapitalisation they have become bank owners, then it is only right that they know what happens to this money as owners of these banks. There is actually a whole chain of problems that we are following today. One moment until it's found out there's something wrong with the banks. In Slovenia, although we had nothing to do with the US banks, there was nothing special about it, but then a mechanism with which lending was limited mainly to the economy was launched and there was a very large amount of bad claim. One bad claim is due to banking crime, one result of a conscious decline in the lending of the economy or a reduction and deterioration in the conditions of lending the economy, instead of 10 years, for example, reduce the repayment period to 5 years and automatically create a poor claim. So a whole series of mechanisms that suggest that this confidentiality can be misused. I think we also need to ask ourselves as the National Assembly whether we have received enough quality data from the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance when we adopted the Law on the Deletion of subordinated bonds. I think we were very confident at the time, both to the Ministry of Finance and to the Bank of Slovenia. However, many data show that this trust may even have been misused, i.e. the State Assembly’s confidence in these institutions. An additional problem when we are solving and looking for both causes and trying to address effective consequences today is how to get through all these procedures. The problem is also that we did not actually look into the banking system as Iceland did. And today we have a situation where those who were in Banka Slovenije at the time were at the Ministry of Finance who were in individual banks are still doing their job. How can you actually handle a tick like that if you don't get specific information and say, yes, this system has been misused and trust has been misused here. If I only add to this the fact that we also have a control system built by a private association for the education of supervisors training supervisors and granting them licences. But look, today no supervisor has ever been responsible for anything that was wrong with any bank. If you have a license, you're directly criminally responsible for what happened at the bank. And only the first case that will happen, and perhaps already should have happened, that someone would have taken this criminal responsibility, because he was involved, had the license he had for being qualified to do this job, would not be discussed in Parliament today whether this law on the abolition of the degree of confidentiality should be adopted or not. In fact, all of this has not happened in Slovenia at this time. Therefore, the only mechanism that Parliament actually has is to adopt a law allowing it to take a look at this data and then adopt appropriate solutions. The same process that I am describing, at the time we decided to set up a bad bank, as well as the Slovenian State Holding, in short, to manage all these assets, is organised in a way that is separate from Parliament's influence as a representative of the people, even though it is the property of the people. And this is the next mechanism, which shows that the misuse of confidentiality of data can occur in a way that damages both the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the property of citizens and citizens. Take the example of New Credit Bank Maribor. I think it is already widely known: the sale price of EUR 250 million, that is only 40.5% of the then book value of the New Credit Bank Maribor, which amounted to 616 million. And this 250 million represents 28.7% of the amount that the Republic of Slovenia invested in the New Credit Bank Maribor in the rehabilitation of 2013 was EUR 870 million. And this raises the question of whether public funds, that is, people's resources, were damaged. If we make a difference between 250 million and a book value of 366 million, or if we take as much as 250 million and the difference of up to 870, to the extent that it has been recapitalised, this damage is only EUR 620 million. These are terrible amounts. Terrible amounts that the National Assembly would not actually be able to successfully monitor and identify what is going on with these sales procedures. And just to compare, if the real value of the New Loan Bank of Maribor was only EUR 250 million, the Bank of Slovenia should require the immediate recapitalisation of the New Loan Bank of Maribor, but it is not. Of course, it is not because the capital adequacy of this bank is 23.3%, which is far above all system banks in Europe, Austria, Germany, French, English, and none of the European banks have such a high capital adequacy. The case also shows that the Bank of Slovenia has not done something that it should have done if the value of the bank was only EUR 250 million. And then when we look forward to buying this bank actually from Biser Bitco, a newly established company from Luxembourg, from the tax haven, just before the sale. According to the available data, Biser Bitco does not have sufficient capital to guarantee the possible payment of guaranteed deposits up to EUR 100,000 and, of course, if this bank is exhausted, this burden will again fall on us. The whole chain of these procedures can continue if we do not initially clear up this issue of what actually happened and whether we will have an insight into this data or not. In fact, this law makes it very easy to speak of the need for the National Assembly to have access to these data both to the working bodies and to the Commission of Inquiry. In my presentation of the Group's position, I have pointed out that many of the bank's committee members are paying their obligations on a regular basis, and this confidentiality must continue to be protected. And that's all we need to clean up, and I don't think there's gonna be any problem with what kind of marriage we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin, then it's Frantz Breznik. I'm sorry I skipped him earlier. Here you go, Mr. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u48	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Yesterday, TES 6, today's bank. Obviously, this is becoming the winter themes of this House, and it seems that the story is always the same, that we all know exactly what happened to the meeting, that the property was damaged. And nothing happens. I could just give you a repeat of what I said yesterday. The same as TES in banks. It is logical for people to be extremely angry and expect us to act in this house and to take measures to be held accountable for these things. I would hardly find anything to disagree with in the debate of Mr Vebra. But Mr Weber is in the coalition and at this point it is known who has responsibility in this country and who has the majority in this House. And of course, most of this is expected. What's the reality? Although there have been a lot of high-flying words before the elections, how this coalition will do everything differently, how it will deal with crime, corruption and all sorts of things, but now look at reality. You have an investigative commission for the banks and for the TEC, which has been forwarded by opposition parties, also led by opposition parties, where opposition parties are most active. Even in the current half of this mandate, everything from 2014 onwards has been all of the opposition types, one set of laws and proposals, from banks, SDH and more. All these laws have gone in the direction of sharpening certain matters, at least as far as the prosecution of banking crime is concerned. But the result is always the same. The laws aren't adopted. And then, after these results, how can we honestly believe that the coalition here has some serious desires and efforts to clean up these things? A simple question needs to be answered. That's not what this is. We also have a law before us today proposing that this National Assembly have the right to look into the documents of a bank if we have given the bank money, the common tax money to save, or if any other State measures have been taken to resolve individual banks. And as it seems from today's debates, this law, this opposition law, will not be passed, despite the fact that some coalition MPs may be discussing in a positive sense, but then it all ends in the vote. This Parliament is required to make a blind decision to make billions of dollars. For the second resolution of the banking system, we have given five billion euros and obviously, given the current business situation and the current situation in the world, something fast can happen, but in the future, there may be a third recovery of the banking system. We are required to approve high amounts for the resolution of the banking system without knowing the details. At least in New Slovenia we call it no, end, stop, that's enough. And some serious determination to account for banking crime and corruption in general in the coalition will show that you will also start supporting such laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Breznik has the floor to prepare Mrs Eva Irgle. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u50	Yes, thank you very much, Mr Vice President. We continue, as colleague Tonin said, with a story from yesterday. So both stories are stories where you come from, if the independent state essentially continues with some social capitalism, which with serious capitalism, with serious competition on the market, with serious institutions, systems and subsystems of the country operating in some balance where the brake and balance system is in place. Here is another story of an unfortunate transition, and above all it is a story that we can say is a breakdown of social capitalism, as a Member, to say that in these five years I have experienced quite a few of these in Parliament, we can say, the sad moments of this system. The first moment was here in 2012 when another Janševa government came to power, sitting there at a closed meeting of Mr Kranjec, at the time as governor, and told us Members not to spread the facts, that the banking system was okay and that banks were still lending the economy, despite the fact that we had a whole range of small family companies, serious export companies with large credit ratings that did not receive any more credit. And in the end, this story began to unfold. The other Janša government was the one that actually looked into this banking system, where we got at least some lists, some of those inherited investments, and the ticks began to unfold. The tick began not because of left-wing policies, but because of the right-wing second Janša government. Maybe this one, we could say, this break took a while to say the opportunity costs were a little bit more. What we are doing here today by investing, re-investing some solutions, is something that you actually wrote in your coalition contract, and in fact we are only helping you not to be left behind by brain cells or gray brain cells and to remember what you wrote in the coalition cooperation agreement in September 2014, about which you have spread out and what you actually won in the elections. We just want to remind you of what you wrote about banks and insurance companies on page 9, and especially about your principles. Let me quote: "In recent years, Slovenia has become too much of a society where the positive foundations of social integration are falling apart and is therefore without perspective. It's a society of mistrust and manipulation. A society in which man is no longer a goal and not a value, but often only a means of those who are led primarily by greed for power and money.” In the third paragraph, you wrote: "The main mission of this government is therefore to restore people's confidence in the country and its foundations, pillars of state-of-the-art action, political, social, cultural, social, financial, economic and other." That I will not read again, see, these are your basic principles of the 3rd coalition agreement. In fact, we are only cooperating and helping you as an opposition to bring at least part of these promises to 2018 when regular elections are held, at least until the end. Today we have heard, either by the Government or by representatives of the Government, for the first time, that the disclosure of banking secrecy is subject to the specific conditions that we are talking about in our legislative proposal, we are talking mainly about Article 126, namely that the proposal provides that the obligation to secure confidential data under this Article of the law does not apply if the bank has received State aid and is subject to action under the Act on the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of the bank and that data requires the National Assembly, the Staff of the National Assembly or the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly. So only these three factors are those in which tax secrecy can be opened, everything else remains exactly the same and Article 162 applies almost entirely back then as it was now. You're saying it's unprofessional. I ask you what the expertise was when the Governor lied to the members of the National Assembly and so far I do not know any prosecution against Mr Kranjec. What expertise was it that someone called, a third-rate economicsman, and received a 100 million - dollar loan in confidence? What kind of expertise was there among the judicial evaluators, I don't know almost any of them who were in prosecution who were actively involved in the literally banking mafia when they were, let's say, on a proposal from someone who wanted to get credit, who was rooting the prices of these properties? What was the expertise of your analysts in all these five banks that Dr. Logar was talking about today, especially when he was talking about all those five banks that were drilling this bank hole? I'm talking about analytics. Some, mostly sitting in these banks today. Most of them today, even as said by Comrade Logar, even in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. And today you're pleading for something to be done because we have an investigative committee. The opposition made an investigative commission, we made it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, they supported it in Novi Slovenija. We can also say that these colleagues who participate in these commissions are more actively involved than a coalition. And here are the facts. Continuation. Remember, we already forgot that NLB, when the story of detection of banking crime began – what did it do at first? And this is what my colleague Logar left out today, and I'm going to continue because he couldn't tell you everything, even though he was extremely precise. Remember the company Dragos. The NLB writes a call for a special group of specialists, experts who would like to take a look at it, to do some revision of the NLB. And what does he do? Take such a procedure in which the supreme audit house with its top masters, doctors of science and long-standing economists, lawyers with long-term audit experience fail and on this call wins company R. U.R. Dear Kosa with five, I speak again with five retired criminals, two former members of the SDV and three criminals, some even with secondary education. They start, we could say, literally dig through these maps, bank maps. This is your expertise, respected colleagues from the government, this is the expertise and price of these three, these five people, mostly from Maribor and the surrounding area, which have long retired, amounted to 250 euros an hour, together with VAT. After this was revealed by journalists, especially the Finance Officer, they reduced the price to very favourable EUR 218 per hour for the payment of people with a majority of secondary education, respected colleagues and colleagues. Let's keep going. Why do we need to renegotiate today and, above all, wait for your revelation of your words, will that word go to action? Because Mr Harij Furlan, whom some of you greatly appreciate, wrote that he has major problems with this very company, Draga Kosa. At the end of last year’s portal, Siel trusted reporters to say: “For months now, NLB has said that the review is almost complete, so most of the systematic survey of bad investments has been completed, so we are not currently ordering new services from this market.” That's what he says. Then in this interview, Mr. Harij Furlan says: “... that he implied that investigators were already receiving selected documents from this company. So investigators get to select documents, folders lack documents that are key to proving direct intent. This is a mandatory element when the prosecutor is chasing someone for a crime of abuse of the position. We're not going to prove it with the credit documentation of the direct design. For this are key electronic messages, testimonies, notes and so on. By some time we had received these notes in folders, later no, Mr Furlan explained.” Do you understand why criminals, it is normal in a country, a democratic state, that criminals come to the House of State Member Dr. Logar and ask him for certain documents because they were not able to obtain them from this bank on their own on official duty? Now, I seriously ask you, your mouth was full of you, my respectable colleagues, when you spoke, there was almost no man here in the National Assembly who was not talking about the practice of Iceland. 5 billion euros, respected colleagues and colleagues. The highway cross is supposed to cost something in 2 billion, which means two highway crosses. With this company, we could launch thousands of startups, such as perhaps the spouse of Login. This means, with this money, with these 5 billion, Slovenia could become the second Switzerland, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here was the foundation of another Switzerland. And this money was distributed to comrades, former comrades who owned state property after 1992. And today, when the new 4 billion fresh capital, the fresh money in these banks, these comrades who partially lost their assets, which they never earned, are voting again on this money, so they don't want it to be investigated to the end. That's the whole story. And with 5 billion, ladies and gentlemen, there is no more bank secrecy. As long as every person born is in charge of more than EUR 2 000 500 for bank recapitalisation alone, there is no bank secrecy. And now look – the end of my debate today – at your logic, especially the democratic logic of the democratic system. The Commissioner of the National Assembly, who is in the Commission, not only as an individual who is a member of a committee of the National Assembly, or as an investigator or as a committee for the supervision of public finances, that is, according to your logic, according to the logic of these great experts sitting on the side of the Government, there is no credible person, despite the fact that he has received thousands of votes from the people and the people have thus shown that he wants to participate in such procedures. Five criminals, three with secondary education, two ex-cons, and in the company of Draga Kos, they can dig through documents, maps, and these are trusted people, respected colleagues and colleagues. This is your understanding of the Constitution, your understanding of democratic processes and your understanding of democracy in general. Do you think that we are in the Communist congregation in 1988 that 400 people will raise their hands here as you say? Where do we live, sir?Oh, my God! How do you even hope to perform? How can you say we're not professional?? Everyone here, most colleagues have long experience either in banks or we've been abroad, or we've worked in some multinational companies. You're talking to us unprofessional, we don't have experience, we're not going to protect some personal data from people. On the other hand, my stoyer entrepreneurs, who worked for these investments, committed suicide. They worked suicide in this country because they didn't want to owe their workers. Isn't it sad? And today you're still talking about some kind of quasi-professionality. What's the expertise in 5 billion holes?Oh, my God! There's no expertise. It is imperative to examine under the fingertips to the end, a respected colleague and colleague. This is the least we have prepared today in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we will insist on this. We will insist on doing so. Because they say Oslo goes on ice once. In Slovenia we look like all donkeys because we have already gone on ice twice, we have recapitalised twice. And every neighbor should ask himself who he could create from nothing without a job, got credit on the bank, and he couldn't get consumer credit, and someone was ahead of him with millions of euros in credit. We will endure to the end! Look, if we don't insist, then we'll be sitting here again in five or ten years, maybe some yes, some no, and we'll say what it is, is, let's leave, now we'll put the new 4 billion in this bank. Can't you see something stinks? Can't you see there's something wrong with this system? Can't you see that this is a total merger on one side of the Bank of Slovenia and on the other side of the state banks, which were quasi-experts? Can't you see there's no other way? Comrade Weber, before you speak, I agree with you, but that's why the banks need to be sold. Maybe even I would be if some bank wasn't sold. They need to be sold because we will not otherwise dismantle this network, according to the local word. These are incestuous relationships in the Slovenian banking system. That's the point of all this. And here's the first guarantee, on the charts. Trustworthy people, who are supposed to be Members of the National Assembly, must come to these matters in parliamentary democracy. And all the things that I've somehow explained to you today in these few minutes, I don't have them available anymore, I want to tell you to get some notion of a broader debate, to see this incest relationship that we have in the banking system. And we will be accomplices, in 10 years they will point to us, that we did not prevent this when we had all the options, all the democratic possibilities to prevent it. Because then people will, I believe, go to the streets and literally it won't end well, and I don't want to. [[…]] Therefore, once again, dear colleagues, let us support this bill, a proposal for a recommendation, i.e. this bill to supplement the Banking Act, because I believe that all these matters and the stories we had in the Slovenian banking system are urgently needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor to prepare Mrs Suzanne Lepi Šimenka and then Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As has been said several times in today's debate, we have already recovered the banking system twice by now. Citizens and citizens, each and every one of us has put around EUR 2 000 500 to rehabilitate the banking system. And of course, citizens and citizens have the right to know where these funds went and how they were used or how they were managed. So we have a multi-billion-dollar hole. I am afraid that there will be any more if we work in this way and if we do not demand as the National Assembly, that it can look transparently at the documents of the Bank of Slovenia and other banks. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party have repeatedly wanted to amend the Banking Act and always in similar substantive points. It's about transparency of procedures. In the previous term, the investigative commission on banking crime and the bank hole were led by a fellow mag. The cooker and he had considerable difficulty with his committee because he did not have access to certain documentation, but it was essential that he could do his work professionally and responsibly. But Banka Slovenije did not want to provide this documentation. They've moved on all levels. And even when we wanted to legitimize it, it is said that in fact, somehow the bank would be forced to comply with the legislation and then, in fact, we have an insight into this documentation, the coalition has always been against. Even in the previous case of the amendment of the Banking Act, the coalition has always voted against transparency when we talk about transparency. Supervisors or supervisors who should be concerned about identifying irregularities in the banking system have not done their work and are therefore responsible for this bank hole. But, dear colleagues, so far in this country, virtually no one has ever been responsible for this exceptional bank hole and for this robbery of Slovenian citizens and citizens. I think so far there's only one case where someone's been convicted, not yet, legally. I'm afraid there's gonna be an acquittal. We've been able to do so much in this area. It seems to me that most of the proposals coming from the Ministry of Justice are purely for pir. They're driving somewhere to Iceland, but they're implementing good practices. Long ago, people in Iceland were imprisoned who were harming their country. What about us? We're just talking about it. When we propose that if the authorities are already in pursuit, and above all, the judges and prosecutors do not do their job so that other supervisory authorities in the National Assembly can do so, you are against it. Police have so far, if I am not mistaken, filed criminal charges for a total of around €800 million. 800 million euros, but it's stuck again and again with the courts and prosecutors. The judges and the prosecutors. And when it is proposed that a special specialised court be set up to deal only with this issue, because it is of the greatest social importance in view of the fact that citizens and citizens have been defrauded in this sense, and it should be in everyone's interest that this is somehow remedied and corrected, and that someone assumes responsibility for this created bank hole, you are against, even though when an investigative commission, which has led perfectly in this mandate by Dr. Ange Logar, proposes a decision identical, it is said that this court, especially an investigative court, is established, and everyone in the coalition is voting for. I don't understand what happened in this time of day. Have you had any calls? I don't know where to protect anyone. That's how I feel. You don't vote for laws that talk about transparency, even for that, I don't know if you will or won't. Maybe my friend Verbich will tell you more. I don't know. I don't know how you're gonna vote. I wish that this law that we are amending today would be supported, because it is good for you too. Even if we look only politically not to talk about responsibility, this is crucial. If you were the responsible party that you are the largest in the country, today you would support this law without question, without even one thought. It is only here that investigative commissions dealing with this difficult subject can obtain important and required data. They need to be able to do that. Look, the Logar Commission could have stepped up its work at the beginning if it had already obtained documentation from certain banks, but it should not have been for the sake of the courts, because the court said no. Well, then finally after seven months, they came to the paperwork and did a magnificent job. I hope you'll support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word shall be given to Mrs Susana Pretty Šimenka, and then it shall be mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mrs. No. [[...]] Mag. Dušan Verbich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President. State secretary with a team, co-workers and co-workers! Since he has quite a lot of time, I'm going to allow myself to introduce a few strange words. It's not my word, but I watched a movie a few days ago and applied to what I'm about to say. The good news is that he has a good salary and that he occasionally allows himself to express his opinion and position in this temple of democracy, irrespective of the position of the environment to which he belongs. You can explain that to each other in your own way. Given that this is a topic for which the present and absent Members have been aware of my position for two years, I will also stress once again when a respected colleague from the opposition party has also been listed and again, I am firmly in the position that the responsibility for a five billion-dollar bank hole is on the part of those who managed state-owned banks, the Bank of Slovenia bank regulator and the troops of all those who have cooperated in one way or another, including auditors, both internally and externally. Dear fellow Members, I thank you. You have told me that you care for my political, whether it is the path or the like or the support. Thank you very much. It is true, however, that we see many things differently, but I think that at least in this matter my view is not significantly different from that of the proposer. I will also touch once again before going to the content itself, which is often mentioned on the parental committees as well as at this plenary session – the comparison of Ireland. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we simply do not want to face the fact that this comparison with the Republic of Slovenia is not comparable at all. However, our representatives of the executive branch and representatives of law enforcement authorities may not know how much they say they want to learn to introduce their practice into Slovenia, such as the legal order, is more May. For Ireland has taken a completely different approach to the resolution of the financial crisis and, in particular, the banking crisis. The fact is that the Irish Government then decided that all state-owned banks had literally fallen into bankruptcy and had resolved cases from bankruptcy proceedings. It turned out a while ago that this was a very good decision, since taxpayers even receive some ratings from this title. It's a reality. The second thing Ireland had before the financial crisis and was extremely helpful in these processes and processes is that it had both substantive and procedural legislation already laid down and envisaged for any such event. And if we look at the Republic of Slovenia, the government's decision went in a completely different direction, the real recapitalisation with tax money, and what law enforcement authorities sometimes rightly comment and say, I speak in part that we have both criminal and procedural legislation as it is, and with the online manoeuvres of all participants in these proceedings, this is abused. However, I would like to say one more thing, namely, every financial institution, especially the bank and also the Republic of Slovenia, is set up to make a profit. The point for the bank is that the confidence of all those involved in these processes, procedures and the like has been established. Of course, the most important are depositors, savers, and, at the final stage, those who accept credit. However, the fact is that the system established and the transposition of the European directives is linked to the Banking Act 2, which has a particular weight, is certainly called the protection of such data, which in some ways is more specific to the protection of confidential data. I am sure that this is one of the key elements of the financial area and also the Banking Act. However, I must admit, and here I am frankly saying that I have strongly rejected their initiative or the proposal to correct in some way the existing legal provision of a title similar to today. Today, I have to admit, I am personally in a different position. I support the proposal from the side that we have on the table, but I support it only in one part and above all with an argument that I do not see any reason to confront the National Assembly with this confidential information, in order to deal with the parent working bodies in which we have 21 commissions and bodies. I strongly agree, however, that all data must be obtained by the parliamentary commission of inquiry. So much for this part. I must admit that I ask myself many times the following whether it is of any interest in the Republic of Slovenia to determine the responsibility of the persons who were the holders of the management, as it were, of the state-owned bank and as I repeat it all the time, and I think that from all the members of the recapitalisation groups in the amount of what, I will say, is strong in over five billion. My answer in this part and in monitoring such matters in some direction would give a grave assessment that the law enforcement authorities are in their activities, regardless of what legislation we have, we are deliberating, because in abundance or if so, I can say hundreds of indictees' motions, I hardly have the information that we have any legal charge. [[…]] I may be doing wrong for some particular case, but given the amount and the amount of such activity in the predictive process, now would be a time for some movement after so many years. What about politics? I must admit that I am critical, and I believe that there is no real determination on either the political side or the part of the policy. And here, speaking for myself, I'm not in this group. As far as I can as a Member, I'm active in this matter, I'm just trying. As far as this proposal is concerned, I will point out once again, above all, that there will not be any ambiguity, the proposal that has been tabled, certainly, that the National Assembly and the Labour Council face these data and that the so-called confidentiality will open up, I am firmly opposed. However, I support this bill in particular, and I will also support it if it is possible, in further procedures, to create and give the Banking Investigation Commission the possibility of all those tools and instruments that we can give it in order to deal truly with all matters, in accordance with its competence. Here I also agree with individual debaters, because I think that both Members and the public may sometimes forget, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, I will not talk about the introductory article, but I would like to touch the fourth article, which says: "In the parliamentary investigation procedure, the protection of the confidentiality of letters and other communications and the inviolability of the human personality is guaranteed." I think it is perfectly clear to everyone what it means when members of the Parliamentary Commission, and even in closed work, face persons as well as documents. But what is disturbing to me at this moment or in this process is I do not agree with the position of my government. The fact is, I will not go after the individual content of the allegations, but any word that the banking investigative commission would open up when this part of the state-owned banks that have been recapitalised opens up so that the same commission would then, after a long time, receive data from these state-owned business banks, not be true. I will not let go of why such statements are, only those who can and have the opportunity to look – the issued decision of this National Assembly of 24 April 2015 – may simply overlook the position that is written down a little differently. And just because of the importance, I am also talking about the political weight of such activities, I will allow myself to read the scope of the parliamentary inquiry. I cannot agree that there are certain indications which are misleading by reasoning why the banking investigation committee cannot reach data. And let's see what it says: “Investment should take over disputed loans”, even specifically stated, “loans classified in credit class D or E...” I believe that everyone who discusses this matter knows at least roughly what this classification means. “... and contested bank guarantees granted by banks owned by the majority state and their subsidiaries or companies in the group and poor loans or claims of banks transferred to the DUTB. In particular, it should be determined how much of this disputed funding was, under what conditions, how these controversial loans were managed or handled and who were the responsible persons who granted the contested loans. In addition, the role and responsibility of the competent supervisory institutions, the role and responsibility of the majority state-owned bank owner and individual public function holders, which could have affected the granting of loans for contested management acquisitions and then that Slovenian taxpayers had to remedy the Slovenian banking system for the second time during Slovenia's independent period. The investigation should focus on the period from 1. 1. 1997 until the date of the purpose of the parliamentary inquiry in question.” As it is said, the date that we adopted in this National Assembly, and I simply do not accept any explanation that, in this part of the Banking Act 2, the so-called secrecy of the data is open, there is no talk of transaction accounts, of the accounts of the commissioners and I do not know what else. I am here to join those Members in thinking that we simply have no interest and we are once again in the political interest. However, when we touch on this, we simply need to be aware in this National Assembly that these are procedures for identifying political responsibility. I am very fond of all the information that the President of this parliamentary commission of inquiry has provided to us that law enforcement authorities are also turning to him to obtain documentation. In some normal relationship, or if we were to talk about this comparability of Ireland, this is unusual. That normal law enforcement authorities find that they can't get to certain documents, and I wonder what happens to law enforcement. If there is relevant information that documents have been lost in some process in one way or another, the law enforcement authorities must also act against those who have deliberately or unintentionally destroyed business documents. This and other things certainly guides me in this firmness and determination that I am on the side that the banking commission of inquiry also in this case exclusively with the state-owned bank that they have recapitalised must obtain all the data, because in the final stage this National Assembly and I think that the vast majority of those present here are consciously teaching. Why is this my thinking that's pretty solid in some way? Simply because I also have to admit, according to Mr Kozina's distinguished Attorney of State, a few years ago, I was very confident that these matters would move in the same direction that not only do we expect individuals in this National Assembly, but I believe that, above all, those who in one way or another had to be deprived when the recapitalisation took place. Let me finish in this part. I support this bill's proposal in the expectation and hope that this content will shrink, particularly in the direction that the Banking Investigation Commission will do its job very effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The replica has Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you, Chairman. I must say that today's debate is above average constructive and an upgrade to the parliamentary debate as we have been used to. Where the views of the groups were presented [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] I see I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a proposalr. The word has magic. Miranda Groff Ferjančič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. The government is certainly inclined to disclose and sanction possible crimes and abuses in the banking system. The legal basis for disclosing confidential information in the Parliamentary Commission already exists, and this is one for which the Constitutional Court has also found that it takes due account of the constitutional rules on the proportionality of interference with constitutional rights. This was also recently recognised by the Supreme Court when it favoured the seizure of the documentation and found that the Commission’s measure was proportionate. In 2013, a new Law on Banking 1L was adopted, which added, among the exceptions to the obligation to protect confidential data, a case where the bank transmits data to the court, to the State Prosecutor or to the police in the event that there are grounds for suspicion that a criminal offence has been committed, except where the law expressly provides for the order of the investigating judge for the transmission of confidential information. In view of the first question, we have looked at arrangements in some countries for access to confidential data at the Ministry. The general conclusion is that banking legislation in other countries respects the confidentiality of bank data and allows only a limited extent of disclosure. As far as the disclosure of bank data under resolution is concerned, for example, the German regime is comparable to ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer of the magi. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u60	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to start by thanking all of today's debaters. For those of us who discussed, I had the feeling that the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposal was in principle supported. It is interesting, however, that we did not discuss only Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am convinced that today's debate is also by certain Members and Members of the coalition parties as evidence that the Slovenian Democratic Party is thinking correctly. And it was right that we had already re- tabled the amendment of the Banking Act in the parliamentary procedure. I am confident that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we will have to reintroduce this law into the procedure of the National Assembly. Because I am also somehow convinced that, over time, some Members and Members in the coalition are also aware that this is true, I would say, a rakrana of the Slovenian banking system, that even for the purposes of such an investigative commission on the abuse of the banking system as well as for the more efficient work of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the Commission on Public Finance Control, in order to determine our proposals that would need to be implemented in existing legislation, I would say, a positive side mainly because of the more effective meetings and in particular what I have already stated several times in the course of today, that I am certainly seeing as the greatest risk here the time, which is not an ally of the National Assembly, is not an ally of the investigative commission, the time is the ally of those who have probably made this bank hole. I think that as a proposaler, I would not repeat the things that we have already said in this high-quality debate, but I would like to express one surprise, on the one hand, nothing new, shocking that the government has spent, I don't know, 90 seconds. 90 seconds, Madam Secretary of State, you've spent, I'd say you've answered a number of questions that you've been asked today, especially by the coalition. You have not answered, I would say, the key questions raised by representatives of the coalition, not to mention representatives of the opposition. 90 seconds, respectable secretary of state. I think it would be better if we didn't come here to the National Assembly. You're wasting your time. On all these open issues, which you face at the Ministry of Finance, in particular in the procedures for the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, yesterday's visit to the Minister of Finance. Ninety seconds, Madam Secretary of State, you've taken as ambassadors and Members of Parliament. And there were quite a few questions. I am sure that some coalition Members and Members of Parliament have thrown you one such glove. I propose, Madam Secretary of State, if you are not able to look at the footage of today's debate, that you at least read your magnetogram thoroughly, because it will benefit you, but it will benefit the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in particular. I am more confident from day to day that taxpayers are wooded for the third resolution of the banking system. To the third resolution of the banking system, and on the one hand of the DUTB, which we have already recapitalised with 50 million, the representatives of the DUTB Management Board do not want to answer the committees to questions from Members and Members. They summarise the practices of the State Secretary, representatives of the Government. And, Madam President, I also invite you, or I call on the President of the National Assembly, to ensure that, when you have some coalition coordination, when you have some meetings with the Government, as President of the National Assembly, that representatives of the Government who come to the National Assembly answer questions from Members and Members. I'll do it again. You've spent 90 seconds. 90 seconds. You haven't answered a single question. You're saying you're pushing for bank crime, chasing banking crime. Dear Secretary of State, it's time. There's something else you can answer. On the basis of documents, have you, for example, filed any compensation action against any of the members of the Supervisory Board in these State banks? This can only be done by a shareholder under the Company Act. I think there's a time when we're gonna have to pour ourselves some clean wine. I view today's debate as very positive, as a step forward, in particular the debate of certain Members and Members of the coalition who have seen this interest and this fight by the Slovenian Democratic Party in this area to take a step forward here. And, Madam Secretary of State, I am confident that we will meet again in this National Assembly to meet this subject, because I am convinced that this debate today is also an additional impetus for the Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party to re- table this law. And if he's rejected again, we'll do it again. And I am sure that this government of Mira Cerar as well as the coalition of the Party of the Modern Centre, the Social Democrats, Desus will once realize that you will have to press the "for" button. It will be difficult to defend the vote against citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And the election is coming up.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. You've got your word. Time's not up yet. We still have some time at our disposal, so if there is still interest in discussing it, please sign in. Of course, the application is also valid for the representative of the Government and the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thought it would be more of an interest. I would just like to reiterate our sincere willingness. I think I can speak for NSI and SDS. Our sincere willingness to pursue a coalition agreement. The fact that you have committed yourself to the taxpayers before the citizens of this country who celebrated their 25th anniversary last year. In a very important jubilee you rule, ladies and gentlemen, and we want to help you realize your promises, your commitments. It's not just promises, we're going to give a thousand euros of pensions, it was more like that, but it's written down, signed. Probably from three smart gentlemen. What will you say to the citizens of this country when the time for inventory comes? What are you gonna say? You're going to go to page 10, point three, where it says we're going to hunt down bank criminals and put them on cold ground; if I may speak in an illustrative manner. People will ask you where the results are. And now, this year is the year for sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, this family silver, which has cost us billions of euros already. Thanks for the family silver, I'm just giving it up, and so is Nova Slovenija. And please do not deceive the Slovenian public, when you say, also the President of the Government, “not the time to sell the New Ljubljana Bank”. What the hell is in this new Ljubljana bank right here across the street that's so ours that you're holding on to it. We don't give the New Ljubljana Bank, not the lady, because it's ours because it's a system bank. What's a system bank? See the table how many banks in Slovenia have been lending the Slovenian economy over the last three years. Some say that the system bank is the one that drives the Slovenian economy. The new Ljubljana Bank is the one negotiating the Slovenian economy. Really? Really? Look at the data, I don't have it right now, but I'm sure it's the Bank of Slovenia that has the exact data, where you can see how much of the banks in Slovenia have been lending to the Slovenian economy in the last three years. How many of the banks in Slovenia helped the Slovenian economy to reach foreign markets. I think it's a little less that Slovenian economists in foreign markets were looking for money. Why? Because they're more competitive. And if it's not futuristic now, I'm thinking realistically when Mr Cerar says. »Not a good time to sell the New Ljubljana Bank.« When will it be? Or five years from now? That'll be 2022. What, ladies and gentlemen, about the bank system? The world is digital. Anyone who's not digital won't be digital. Are we going to need banks in 2022? Probably, but in a substantially different form. I hope to say that this aberration, I like this concept very much, has come to the banking sector, of course. Or are we gonna need a tall column here and I don't know how many people are in there? I believe that some are very effective, good, working and so on. But what about the new bank hole? What I had previously served with data from, I think, the Bank of Slovenia newsletter, we note that last September we still had 3.7 billion non-performing claims. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the information we are concerned about in New Slovenia. This should be done in order to avoid the recapitalisation of banks with Slovenian state-owned tax money.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, tomorrow, 25 January, in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A RECOMMENDATION RELATING TO THE PAYMENT OF THE REFERENCE OF THE RIMSCOCTATIC CHURCH ON THE LONG-RANGE OF DENACTIONAL PROCEDURES AND THE OTHERIR TERRITORIES. The proposal for a recommendation was submitted for consideration by a group of four Members and Members with the first signed mag. Alenko Bratusek. With regard to this proposal, the Group of Eleven Members and Members of Parliament recommended the first signed mags. Alenko Bratušek requested that the National Assembly hold a general discussion. The Committee on Justice, as the parent working body, proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee of Ms Ksenija Korenjak Kramar for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Committee on Justice is at its 28th meeting, held on 10. 1. 2017 as a parent working body, the proposal for a recommendation concerning the payment of compensation to the Roman Catholic Church for the longevity of the denationalisation procedures and their other claims submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first signed mags. Alenko Bratušek and is published on the website of the National Assembly, in the Rapporteur of 14. Ten. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Committee received the following material. Proposal for a Recommendation of 14. Ten. 2016; Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 21. 12. 2016 and the opinion of the Government of 17. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the course of the course of business, an amendment was tabled by the Group of Non-Aligned Members to point 1 of the proposal. The additional explanation, on behalf of the applicant, was submitted by mag. Alenka Bratušek, who said that among the first four responsible for the so-called bank hole are three companies owned by the Roman Catholic Church, hereinafter referred to as Zvon One Holding, T-2 d.o.o., and Zvon Two Holding. The hole that the RDC has dug in our banks through its legal entities is 500 million. The total amount of compensation and interest still expected by the RCC from the country should be around €60 million. The aim of the proposal was to point out that the Government would save these 60 million taxpayers and that the RCC would recognise its share of the responsibility for the bank hole created, agree with the Government and cancel that amount. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the proposal for measures for the work of other national authorities, in a specific case of the Government, should be clearer and more specific, in particular as regards the issue on which the proposal concerns the legal persons concerned and the content of the action for work. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Mr Stare, from the Ministry of Justice, stressed that, given the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, this recommendation cannot be implemented. It stated that legal persons, both RDC and all entities owned by it, are independent legal entities which enter legal and commercial relations on the basis of public rules, in particular on the basis of the Company Act. It is unacceptable to treat these entities differently from others in the same legal environment in the rule of law if there is no explicit basis in a law which, of course, must be justified by some public interest. All claims made by the RCF against Slovenia should therefore be dealt with in accordance with the rules under which these claims have also been made. The representative of the Slovenian Conference of Bishops, Dr. Tadej Strehovec, presented the opinion of the RCC, in which he recommended that the proposal be considered inappropriate. He expressed his belief that the lack of intolerance to the Catholic community in the Republic of Slovenia and the call for discriminatory treatment of the constituent parts of the RCC and the compensation provided for in the denationalisation procedures. He agreed with the proponents that the denationalisation procedures were too long, but it is also the country's fault. As unrealistic, he called the applicants' claims that companies, as an integral part of the RCC, had caused 500 million damage to state banks. He considered that the state banks on both holding companies had already been paid or would be paid and that the RCC was not responsible for the state-owned recovery of the losses of state-owned banks and therefore expected a public apology from the applicant for the dissemination of the misinformation proposal. The Advocate General asked whether this proposal dealt with the report and the compensation for the inability to use the property returned in the denationalisation proceedings or the payment of monetary compensation for the damage caused by the infringement of rights. It concluded from this that it is not possible to request and treat entities differently, whether it is other entities or the RCF. Sebastián Cafuta, Head of the Legal Service of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, said that DUTB is committed to the prosecution of banking crime and is committed not only to criminal liability but also to compensation. With regard to the proposal, however, the recommendation considers that it should cover all the natural and legal persons responsible for the bank hole, in order to effectively account for it also on the financial side. In the debate, the representative stressed that the proposal for recommendations was not directed at the RCC nor against the believers, but intended to protect Slovenian taxpayers. Members of the coalition and some opposition parties agreed that, in the case of a proposal, a recommendation was made for companies which are separate and independent legal persons by status, so the responsibility to obtain credit from these companies in Slovenian banks is not to assign RDCs to these companies. These economic operators cannot be treated unevenly, that is to say, differently from other entities under the Company Act. They also pointed out that the proposal for a recommendation was both legally and politically uncontained. The Committee on Justice thus concluded that the proposal for a recommendation was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I give the floor to the representative of the Magi's proposal. Alenki Bratušek for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u66	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues, Vice President! You have before you a call on the Government to try to save taxpayers 60 million euros that could be allocated to people: to coordinate pensions, to scholarships, to children's lunches. Let me begin by saying that all the formal conditions for adopting this recommendation are met. The recommendation is consistent with the Constitution, in accordance with the legislation and in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. We have all found this together on the Committee on Justice that there will be no further dilemmas. It is said that the adoption of a recommendation asking the Government to do all it can to save taxpayers 60 million euros only requires the will of Members and Members. But let's go in a row and get back to 2013. In 2013, Slovenia was ahead of a great test. Despite the fact that Slovenia has faced problems in our banks since 2008, the then government has not acted. Even the then Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, acknowledged that, in his mandate, the banking problem was not sufficiently serious. In 2013, the situation in the country was so serious that local and foreign experts put us at the edge of countries that had to ask for foreign assistance and, in my opinion, lost their economic sovereignty by this step. There was no media, domestic or foreign, who wouldn't speculate every day when we'd be so on the edge that we'd have to ask for help from abroad. They weren't wondering if we were going to, but when we were going to go bankrupt. Of course, the situation today seems quite different. But I can tell you that it's not nice not knowing at the end of the month if there's enough money to pay your pension. It's not pleasant when you don't know if the state budget will be able to pay salaries to cops, soldiers, teachers. It's not nice when you think about whether bank speculations and machinations will require a reduction in scholarships, a reduction in maternity benefits, child support. On the other hand, you know that companies, business owners and bankers have done the country billions of damages. It's a lot of damage. And if we wanted to put Slovenia back on track, our banks needed to be rehabilitated, cleared of their debt and provided them with fresh money. Recapitalize them. Even in the National Assembly, we can often hear the question of why we did not do as we did in Iceland and put the bank simply in bankruptcy. You know, when a man on the road asks me this, I'm happy to take the time and explain to him that the biggest creditor of our banks was the Slovenian economy and that by bankruptcy our banks would bury the entire domestic economy. Unlike Iceland, where the bankruptcy price was borne mainly by foreigners. And the fact that banks were bankrupted by our companies was the only reason that there was no other way than for the state to help banks because we helped or saved the domestic economy. When asked by a man on a road who had never dealt with banking and was only interested in why he had to contribute to the rehabilitation of banks, I gladly take the time and explain it to him. However, when a fellow Member asks me the same question, who knows the banks and the operation of the banks, I become appalled. And this is also happening, unfortunately and several times you can hear such a question in the National Assembly. The year 2013 was a crucial year for our country. If they created Slovenia alone in 1991, we maintained our financial sovereignty in 2013. Either way, someone wants to admit it today or they don't. Sanitation banks were expensive. That's a fact. Five billion of them were taxpayers. Whether this money will ever be returned to the country depends on the business, especially the operation of the DUTB, the so-called bad bank, and the functioning of the government. The objective was, of course, to cover the entire amount of bank recovery from the sale of claims transferred to the DUTB. I can also hear several times in the National Assembly: “People want this money back and they are right.” 5 billion, as the banks have been rehabilitated, means EUR 2 000 500 per taxpayer. Now that Mira Cerar's government has encouraged recovery for an additional EUR 50 million, the cost is even higher. And yeah, it's right that people want that money back. And it's only right that they get it. The DUBT website, the Companies for Bank Claims Management, publishes data which companies, when and at what amount have contributed to these 5 billion bank holes. Since these are the reasons for today's proposal, let's look at them together again. Among the first four of the greatest sinners on this list are three church companies. That's a fact. It's a publicly known fact. One bell contributed EUR 163 million, T-2 131 million and Zvon Two 122 million to the bank hole. And this data is only for the three largest NLBs, NKBMs and Abanko, and it's really fascinating numbers, nothing. And all this managed to do to one owner, one legal person, this is Nadskofija Maribor. Together, this means about EUR 500 million. And that's a tenth of the entire bank hole that was created in our banks. A dozen of these bank holes were created by three church companies. Do you know how much EUR 500 million is? Any pensioner could get 833 euros. The most vulnerable could be increased by more than twice. The scholarship could be distributed five times as much as it is today. Yeah, we're talking about such huge numbers. And such a huge hole has been dug in our banks by church companies. Mr. Rode says it's a small local slip. Apparently 500 million euros is a small local slip, which is even higher than the budget of our largest municipality, that is the Municipality of Ljubljana. All of this is the reason why in the Alliance we decided and wrote a letter to the Government and the Roman Catholic Church urging them to do everything and to find an agreement that, because of the moral responsibility of the owners of companies that have hung the 500 million cross on the back of taxpayers, they will cancel 10 percent of that amount, 60 million euros in compensation required from the State. According to our assessment, this is the least that the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church can do for the country and for the people. Although they particularly want to present in the Roman Catholic Church the call of the Allies as an attack on the Church and believers, of course this is not true and it is not our goal at all. I have demonstrated the respect of the institution by visiting the Vatican and Pope Francis on 13 June 2013. I have to tell you, he was very interesting for me to visit. We talked for quite some time and talked about many things, about young people to be returned to, about the poor to be given the opportunity, about the unemployed to be helped, and about the challenges that Slovenia faced during the 2013 economic crisis, and about the assistance that the Catholic community can offer to our people in cooperation with the state institutions. And that's what we call it in the Alliance. Please let the Roman Catholic Church know that when I pay compensation for the denationalisation process, it can help the state and people. Although I do not go to church alone, where people learn what is or are mortal sins, I think there are seven, but I have looked at them and greed is one of them. Greed is one to seven deadly sins. At least that's what we say. And there's nothing I can do that I don't call greed these compensations that are required of the country. In the denationalisation process, they've recovered a lot of assets. Why is it that when the country decided to do so, I don't know. It is necessary to ask Mr Peterlet, who was then Prime Minister of the Government, but the state has made this decision and the Church has acquired very much property. Now it also requires compensation from the State because it could not use this property. Yeah, it's true, the law makes it possible. But on the other hand, there could be so much moral responsibility that, looking at the list of 500 million euros, they would say, yes, because our companies are responsible for 500 million euro holes in Slovenian banks, which all taxpayers had to cover, we give up 60 million euros. And that's exactly what we're suggesting. The proposal to try to get the government to agree with the Roman Catholic Church. Is that right? Hard to say, but we'll never know if the government won't even try. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I ask you to support the Alliance's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice for the introduction of the position on the proposal of the working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The Government considered the proposal for a recommendation just presented at its regular meeting on 17 November last year and adopted an opinion which concluded that the proposed measure was not based on the legal order in force. In the case of the RCC and its own company, these are separate legal entities which each have the same rights and obligations in legal traffic as other legal entities. There is no way for any independent legal entity to require different treatments than for other legal entities. Nor is this possible for claims and obligations of an individual legal entity. Although the proposal is well-intentioned, it is not feasible because unequal legal treatment of independent legal entities is unacceptable. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia could collect data on existing claims to the Republic of Slovenia by the RCC and cannot take into account the damage to banks caused by RCC-owned companies when paying these claims beyond the applicable legal order. All claims against the Republic of Slovenia by the Republic of Slovenia should therefore be dealt with in accordance with the rules on the basis of which these claims were made and on each particular case, in particular within the framework of the applicable rules, the possibility of reducing the State's obligation. It is also not to be overlooked that the economic damage associated with the operation of RDC-owned companies is also due to the insufficient diligence and prudence of state banks in granting loans. In its opinion, however, the Government pointed out that it would be most prudent and economically effective if all national authorities, in matters where there was an obligation to pay any compensation, compensation for damage and the like, acted with particular care and care and sought possibilities for settlement of indisputable parts of claims in order to reduce the State's obligation to pay. However, in this regard, it is not possible to adopt a general guidance, as I have already said, on a number of cases based on different legal bases, which differ in substance, and therefore they need to be treated differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u69	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Mrs Iva Dimic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u70	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a recommendation made by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Alenka Bratušek cannot be sufficiently debated. This is a completely political move that does not have a tail or head and points, on the one hand, to the ignorance of the laws and, on the other hand, to the obvious intolerance of the Catholic community in the Republic of Slovenia, which, according to the proposaler, should be subject to different rules than other entities. More than 42 000 applications for denationalisation procedures have been submitted, more than 42 000. But let's just look at a few facts. Companies owned by the Roman Catholic Church are independent legal persons and in legal traffic, as well as other economic operators, act independently, on the basis of the rules in force. All claims made by the RDC to the State must be treated in accordance with the rules on which they were made, i.e. in any case individually. Where claims have arisen on different legal bases and between different legal persons, each claim must be dealt with separately. The rule of law cannot afford to draw parallels between them and put them on a common denominator. The rehabilitation of Slovenian state-owned banks of EUR 5 billion was not necessary solely because of the poor management of RDC-owned companies. There were a lot of bad loans, and they were approved by the banks themselves. We can all rest assured that it is very irresponsible. All companies, regardless of whose ownership they are, must bear the same responsibility, with the responsibility of banks that approved the loans even greater. Only the State is responsible for the conduct of the denationalisation procedures. Will someone answer that after 25 years of asset recovery procedures have not yet been completed? There are 164 more cases pending with the epilogue. Why should a denationalising beneficiary be responsible for unreasonablely long procedures or for the inability to use returned property? If the State had led the proceedings quickly, without undue delay, such claims would not have been submitted by the beneficiaries. In New Slovenia we have repeatedly pointed out the incomprehensible duration of these procedures and the large number of outstanding cases. In response to our oral question in May 2013, i.e. at the time of the government of Alenka Bratušek, we received the reply of the Minister of Justice that he absolutely agrees that all denationalisation procedures should be completed long ago. Let us also note that the most outstanding claims are those relating to property of high value. In order to ensure that there is no confusion, all those who have been waiting for long years to recover their assets are entitled to compensation, as required by the RCC in this case. Will the proposer also require them to give up what is lawful to them, property unlawfully confiscated and supported? The proposer points out that the proposal for a recommendation is not directed against the RCC or against believers, but is intended to protect Slovenian taxpayers. It is difficult for Christian Democrats to believe this, because it is discriminatory to seek fault and responsibility for a large deficit in the state budget on the return of assets to the RCC alone, on the basis of the values it advocates and lives. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that everyone responsible for the bank hole must also be responsible. Unfortunately, taxpayers bear part of the burden, regardless of who caused it, so such unilateral treatment is not acceptable. Is it true that only the Church must prove itself again and again in its credibility and resolve conflicts that have long been overcome elsewhere? It would be time for us to accept it as part of any normal society. Let us not forget, even though it is constitutionally separated from the state, it does not mean that it is socially excluded from the lives of citizens. No one can challenge her charismatic, educational, and cultural roles. And if we recognize the church’s historical and current positive role in society, let us legally acknowledge what belongs to it because it belongs to it, just as it is to everyone else. Only then can it be an equivalent builder of the Slovenian state and its spiritual wealth. The Christian Democrats for the proposal have not supported the recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u71	Mag. Alenka Bratušek will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u72	Nice greetings again, dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, in our Group of Members, we still support the proposal for recommendations, and we will therefore vote against the fact that these recommendations are not suitable for further consideration. Yeah, everyone who's been digging a bank hole should be answering, even compensation. And if we start at the top three, I believe that a fellow Christian Democrat doesn't want to hear, but let's start at the top three: Bell One, T-2 and Bell Two. Whether you like it or not, it's connected to the Roman Catholic Church in our country. 500 million euros. And that's the only reason, the only reason, is to suggest that the government is trying to make a deal. I was a little surprised by the government's opinion, which says it's against the law. Indeed, there was another State Secretary on the Committee, but we have found together that the recommendations made by the proposed amendment are consistent with both the Constitution and all legislation. Perhaps Mr. Old, who was there, could say these things further. Yeah, there were a lot of bad loans. Bad loans were too much. But just by realizing that someone should answer and doing nothing, nothing will change. Nothing's gonna change. We could take the first step, once again, not to make things right and connect, but those of you who listened to me, you know I was talking about moral responsibility. And the moral responsibility for the EUR 500 million bank holes should be taken over by the Roman Catholic Church and one small piece demanded of the country should be forfeited for the good of the people. And this and only this is the proposal that is before you today. It is certainly not directed against the church as an institution, even less against the believers. Believe it or not, respected colleagues and colleagues, many believers told me: “Yes, that’s true. For the damage that companies, church companies have done in our banks, they should be responsible." And with this recommendation, we would take the first step. I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, not to discuss all day today whether this is in accordance with the legislation or not, that you all read the Magnography of the Committee on Justice, where it clearly states that this recommendation is in accordance with the Constitution, legislation and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That this is a recommendation that we, as the National Assembly, give to another body, is to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to try to agree on two parties to settle. I don't know, Madam Secretary of State, what kind of legislation is this if, of course, both parties agree? And once again, if you don't even try, we won't know, and gentlemen on the other side will wash their hands and say, because the government doesn't even want to. As I said at the outset, since we are signatories, of course, there is no doubt that we still support the proposal before you in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u73	The word is given by the Group of the Modern Center Party, for her mag. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, once again a very nice greeting! We have before us a discussion on the proposal for a recommendation on the payment of compensation to the Roman Catholic Church for the longevity of denationalisation procedures and other claims. The motioners consider that among the first four culprits are three companies owned by the Roman Catholic Church for the so-called bank hole. For this reason, he proposes that the Roman Catholic Church recognise its share of responsibility for the resulting bank hole, conclude an agreement with the Government and cancel this high amount. Regardless of the fact that we are all aware that the entire debt of the so-called bank hole is large, we must respect the legal order in force. These legal persons of the Roman Catholic Church are to voluntarily waive their claims to the Republic of Slovenia, even if they are legally entitled to them. In spite of the possible good intentions of the recommendation, it should be borne in mind that legal persons, both in the Roman Catholic Church and all entities owned by it, are independent and legal entities which enter into legal and commercial relations on the basis of the rules in force, in particular on the basis of the Economic Companies Act. Thus, all claims made against the Republic of Slovenia by the Roman Catholic Church must be dealt with in accordance with the rules, in particular those according to which these claims were made. The bell One holding, T-2 and Zvon Two holding companies are separate and independent legal entities by their status, each having the same rights and obligations in legal traffic as other legal entities. Therefore, the responsibilities of these companies to obtain loans from Slovenian banks cannot be attributed either to the Roman Catholic Church or to these companies. Nor can these economic operators be treated unevenly, that is to say, differently from other entities under the Company Act. In all of this, the provisions of the Denationalisation Act must also be respected. Members and Members of the Modern Centre Party are aware that the additional reason why the proposals for the recommendation cannot be legally taken into account, but also that the companies owned by the Roman Catholic Church have contributed to the bank's bank hole in fact independent economic operators whose operation was governed by the law, and the economic damage associated with their operation has been caused mainly by the lack of due diligence and diligence of the State banks in granting credit. From all the above, we will confirm in the Modern Centre Party that the proposal for a recommendation on the payment of compensation to the Roman Catholic Church for the longevity of denationalisation procedures and other claims is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u75	Mr Franz Breznik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President! With great interest, this proposal recommended the payment of compensation to the Roman Catholic Church for the longevity of denationalisation procedures and other claims, we can say, listen, look at the arguments against the arguments. As some have said before me today, the proposal for a recommendation mainly refers to certain market operators being treated unevenly. That's very discriminatory. You could also see some data on these screens. The first data was a large T-2 bank hole. Let's see the fact. T-2 created more than €60 million of total revenue last year and concluded the business with a profit of €1 million. The EBIT has reached more than €16 million, which is 6.5% more than what was created in the comparable period in 2015. The number of T-2 subscribers increased by 10% in 2015, with the largest growth on the mobile network being 19%. T-2 also has a total of more than 200 000 connections, VDLS optics, mobile subscribers, of which 78 000 on mobile and more than 65 000 on its own optical network. At the end of last year, T-2 62.8 million Euros of capital and 258 million Euros of funds, were reported from GAMOL. Dear colleagues, you recently watched Donald Trump's inauguration. There you saw two vases, he said he was making vases of the best glassworks in the world, this is the glassworks Rogaška Crystal, which already had a store in the middle of New York in 1925. Glass Rogaška was before the collapse in 2005, more than a thousand people would have gone on the road, and 450 years of glass tradition would have plunged into eternal oblivion. At the time, we had a big affair with Steklarska Nova, which was another company where the glass school was. When it failed when the workers were not paid, most of the masters of Glass Nova were taken over by the Glass Rogaška Crystal. Together with the capital of the church we have saved Rogaška Kristal, today owned by the Finnish Fund, bright moments are promised for the Rogaška crystal. The largest Slovenian or most recognised Slovenian company. It's similar to the Zinc and so on. It's not just a bad story from church bells. Why is the Church always on the ground, and why do we have this aggressive Ljubljana atheistism that has been spreading for years and decades? The Church assumed its responsibility, all the bishops, so subjectively, objectively resigned, some were exiled abroad. Mr Kraševec, as far as I know, the first immediately convicted, legally convicted, i.e. the cases against the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia, which was the main driving force of the Slovenian language, the Slovenian national identity, which had already established an institution in the centre of Vienna in 1676, where most of the Slovenian intellectuals were educated, where they received a scholarship from the Catholic Church, we can say, then, the scholarship from France Prešern, from Stritar, Herman Potočnik, from Miklošič and other academics, we can say, the size of Slovenia, all of this. If we say that the Church has a charity, Karitas, where they do not employ scrapped political personnel, like in the Red Cross and so on. They are also bright points of the Slovenian Catholic Church, respected colleagues. Why this story? Why don't we turn the story around? What is the problems of the Agricultural Land Fund, which did not give the Church the chance to manage this property normally over the past 25 years. Would it not be wise for a representative of the Agricultural Land Fund to come here and ask what they are doing with this property, why Slovenian space is growing, what is wrong with why farmers do not get this land, why the Fund of Agricultural Land is needed at all, why it does not divide these lands into congregations, respected colleagues and colleagues, why a whole bunch of bureaucrats get paid there and are employed. Wouldn't you turn the story around? Now we've talked about 5 billion, we've talked about 100 million Capitals that bring loss, we've talked about TEŠ 6, not the Catholic Church, they've taken responsibility, they've apologized to the Slovenian public three times, even for their own investments. And when you talk about 500 million, as you know, a whole series of archdioceses from abroad help them, as you know, the Catholic Church has a whole series of real estates to protect these bad claims, and it will pay off. As a result of this, apart from the popularity of a small party or unrelated Members, I do not see in this proposal any real basis, a respected colleague and colleagues. But you know, the attack on the Slovenian Catholic Church for 70 years, that's one fashion, that's one great thing, where you can get some political points, because it was part of the doctrine of the former political system. Dear colleagues, I am not a lawyer and I am not a representative of the Slovenian Catholic Church, I myself have been a critical many times and also the Slovenian Democratic Party, but when we are talking about a bank hole when we are talking about all sides, we must also respect some legal order. First, the same treatment as I said today, and all entities in the National Assembly in the Republic of Slovenia and also in the companies that were directly or indirectly in the churches of Zvonov. That's what's true. That's what's true and where we're gonna have to open our eyes. An attack on one of the entities that has been giving for a thousand years, we can say, a refuge to the Slovenian people, helped him in his independence, in his identity, in his search for identity, but there is something that, apart from populism, has no real basis. Therefore, we consider the proposal for a recommendation on the payment of the Roman Catholic Church's compensation in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u77	The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. For her, Mr. Franz Jursha. Here you go, Mr. Jursha.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u78	Mr President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all your friends and friends! Much has been said on the committee about the proposal for a compensation recommendation to the Roman Catholic Church. I will not repeat the statements of the Legislative and Legal Service, then the Government, the State Defence and others, why this recommendation cannot be accepted primarily from a legal point of view. I repeat, from a legal point of view. However, we cannot go past the proposaler's allegations that they are among the biggest culprits for the creation of a bank hole, which we have been talking about for several years, just companies owned by the Roman Catholic Church. Thus, part of the hole that was helped to dig companies that are owned by the Roman Catholic Church is expected to be around EUR 500 million. Of course, this debt had to be repaid by Slovenian taxpayers. In the Desus Group, we are pleased that so far there has been insufficient prosecution and trial in connection with the so-called bank hole. In the proposal, the proponents called on the Roman Catholic Church to waive compensation, which, of course, is justified under the Denationalisation Act. The fact is that denationalisation procedures are too long. Under the current legislation, however, the Roman Catholic Church or its own entities cannot be treated differently from other economic societies. Therefore, the claims to be dealt with by the Roman Catholic Church to the Republic of Slovenia must be dealt with in accordance with the applicable rules. The second is, of course, what would be just or moral in order for the Roman Catholic Church to do. In the Desus Group, we are thinking in the direction of what could be financed if the Roman Catholic Church really followed this call and waived the claims it has against the State for compensation, to which I repeat, it is perfectly justified. We'd have more money to spend on scholarships, free lunches, re-regrees of pensioners, coordination of pensions. Any pensioner would have received 800 and so many euros from the applicant, according to the applicant's position. Do you know what this would mean for any individual who is having a hard time day in and day out? And I could count it. We could help those members of our society who are very difficult to live, which would also be in harmony with the teaching taught by the Roman Catholic Church. In this part, the Desus Group may even agree with this proposal, but we are aware of legal limitations and that all matters need to be governed by applicable laws or regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u79	Mr Jan Škoberne will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a recommendation before us has one key condition to fulfil its purpose, and this is open to both sides to agree and to begin a discussion. Unfortunately, the representative of the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church, in the framework of the presentations of the opening opinions and opinions, has already refused to discuss such a recommendation and its implementation. So even if the National Assembly had accepted this recommendation today, the Government would probably only have found that there are no conditions for enforcement, because the will on the part of the one who is in fact the key addressee of the message bearing this recommendation does not want to enter into the process of care, mediation or whatever we want to call it. And here, at least as far as the recommendation is concerned, today's story ends. However, it has a much longer beard and is significantly more important than the proposal for a decision proposed by the Committee on Justice that it is not suitable for further consideration. Of course, the original sin of our story is much older. It begins with the primary accumulation of capital on feudal, monarchist, allowing me to say that we all agree on a criminal basis when entities, like not only the Roman Catholic Church, have acquired an extraordinary asset that today, according to today's civil standards, could say that it was stolen from people. This property was then confiscated in an important part of the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia after World War II. And after independence, with the Denationalization Act, what was wrongly taken had to be returned. And that's the way it is. Of course, at least according to the opinion of the Social Democrats at the time, the United List of Social Democrats, citizens of Slovenia and citizens of the Roman Catholic Church, we returned more than was necessary, and in particular, we returned what had been, and this was discussed earlier, in the core unjustly obtained through the monarchist and feudal privileges. And when we move to the century in which we are today, we find that, after a thousand years of entity, as Mr Breznik rightly stated, lived at the expense of the feudal privilege, then this property in some part was returned, with the carelessness of managing the companies that could have been created by this primary accumulation of this capital, caused citizens and citizens of this country an additional 500 million euros in debt, costs, burdens that we will all have to pay. And here we come to the key question, which the proponent correctly identified and which can only be answered by the Roman Catholic Church itself: Is it appropriate that, with all the property it has, the controversial and non-controversial property, but for moral authority such as the Roman Catholic Church, it is appropriate that at least a part of it be waived to citizens and citizens of this country to compensate for the burden, loss, costs which it has indirectly and directly caused? Of course, in both the Government and the State Defence, all the guests on the Committee have said in fact that, from a legal point of view, such a manoeuvre cannot have the desired legal effect for us Members and Members. But like the burning of Protestant Slovenian books by the prince of the bishop Hren he had no desired effect and the Slovenian word and book spread further, as well as the thought that, for example, in the church it is right to speak Slovenian, even the spirit of this recommendation, although perhaps rejected today, remains. And even though I don't believe in miracles, this time I will allow myself to say that the Social Democrats do hope that the miracle will find a place in the Roman Catholic Church where it may someday understand that the forests could be returned if it took them back to the people at the time of the feudal domination. But it's not at this national assembly or at us, it's on the carrier and owner of the monarchistically acquired capital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u81	The text is given by the Joint Left Group, Mr Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u82	Thank you and a nice hello again! Our view is that the denationalisation of the place of social property. Property that could not be accommodated and that served the public benefit. The church, which is the largest denationalising beneficiary, has come to this property more politically than legally. This was fostered by the close connection between the Roman Catholic Church and the State in the first years after the adoption of the Denationalisation Act. Because of its privileged status in relation to the state, the Church has acquired huge assets, and now they are voting after damages that will cost citizens and citizens more than €10 million. The church's political involvement in forests and other assets is reflected in a number of political decisions taken in favour of the RCC. For example, the Denationalisation Act initially stipulated that the seized property would be returned only to natural persons, and only at the end of the legislative process did the MPs, with the amendments, allow for the return of the seized property to the RCC. At the request of the Church, this was made possible by the then Demos Coalition. The political servitude of the Church is also shown in the fact that the state did not want to implement mechanisms to determine the increased value of forests due to investments made by private owners or by the state. For example, the Fund for Agricultural Lands, which is now being sued by the Slovenian RCC for 60 million, invested a total of EUR 38 million in the construction of roads and forest roads between 2010 and 2016 alone. Recovering the confiscated forests will therefore also grant beneficiaries investments, investments in these forests. Church privilege, the political power of the Church was also expressed in the process of restoring forests within the Triglav National Park. Before 2005, in order to protect the public interest, the State's defence also objected. But Lovro Sturm, the then Justice Minister in the Janšev government, entrusted these denationalisation procedures to former Supreme Judge Janez Metelk, who decided on behalf of the State for the Church. As a result of its intervention, RDC received 3,000 hectares of ringwood in 2005 or one tenth of the Triglav National Park. It is no coincidence that former justice minister Lovro Šturm and former agricultural minister Jože Osterc are both rewarded with Maltese knightly order. All of this is not surprising, since the RCC has a privileged role, both in denationalisation procedures and in other matters vis-à-vis the State, recognised on the basis of an unwritten agreement based on a completely political decision and on the understanding of the State that the RCF is an institution acting in the public interest. This relationship is reflected in a number of areas. First of all, the State is earmarking around €10 million per year for co-financing of church private institutions dealing with education and education. Thus, in 2014 the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport paid €9 million to private church schools. We can add another million a year to this, which the country spends on paying priests in the Slovenian Army. In order to co-finance the social contributions of priests, the state devotes about 3 million a year. In this case, it is an uneven financing of social security contributions, since unlike ordinary citizens, the state does not make its aid conditional on the material situation of the beneficiary. In addition, the privileged position of the RCC is shown in an unfair tax treatment since religious services are not taxed. For rituals performed by order and against payment, it is not voluntary contributions, but services for which, by all rules, invoices and taxes should be issued. From the point of view of the special status enjoyed by the Church in Slovenia, however, the participation of high representatives of the Church and other civil servants in the so-called Masses for the homeland and similar rituals is expected, however, constitutionally controversial. By doing so, the Church creates the image of the State Church, and the representatives of the State humbly follow it. On the basis of all this, it is not surprising, however, that the RCC, which, with its financial gambling, has already beaten the citizens for about EUR 500 million with the bank hole it has dug up, now wants the same taxpayers that we have paid for this hole to make a refund on the longevity of denationalisation procedures worth a total of EUR 60 million. The church is called upon to withdraw from these claims, not to respond or to respond in a non-chalant manner. It blames the country for long denationalisation procedures and the banks for their dismal business decisions. It is clear that the Church, which built the 500 million hole, requires even more of the people, and it is totally shameless and unjustifiable. The Church defends and defends it, that in denationalisation procedures the Church must be treated equally, as well as other denationalising beneficiaries. It also claims that its imported companies are separate and independent legal persons after their status. However, in these statements, it does not state that, in the light of the privileges of unfair financing of political power and of the unequal status of the RCC in relation to other religious communities, this argument does not legally withstand equal treatment, may be legal, but may not be at least legitimate or moral or sincere. In the United Left, we certainly advocate equal treatment of RCCs and other religious communities in accordance with Article 7 of the Constitution, which clearly states that the State and the religious communities are separate. We can only hope that the Government will also listen to the call for equality and remove the privileges that it still enjoys in this country, despite the damage caused by the Church. In Slovenia, church property is estimated at around EUR billion and its assets worldwide at more than EUR thousand billion, so church claims for tax money are truly incomprehensible. On the Committee of the Mother Labour Body, we have heard from the representative of the Slovenian Bulgarian Conference Dr. Strehovac that it is a matter of asking the Church to waive the monetary claim that we will pay to citizens and citizens for the insatiability of the Catholic community in the Republic of Slovenia. And the doctor forgets that the Church is asking for money from the state, which means that we will have to provide this money to all taxpayers, both faithful and unfaithful. The church is thus acting as a false prophet in sheep’s clothing, where predatory wolves are hidden. In the United Left, of course, we will not support the proposal that the decision proposed by Alenka Bratušek is inappropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u83	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a recommendation. I give the floor first to the representative of the Magi's proposer. Alenki Brother. Here you go, Mrs. Bratusek.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice President, again. Thank you all for the opinions of your parliamentary groups. However, I must say that I am a little surprised because apparently the vast majority in this national assembly do not want to understand what we wanted with this recommendation. Despite the fact that the Legislature-Legal Service on the Committee has said that with the amendment that has been tabled, we are solving their dilemma on the legality of the proposal. So, with the amendment, if you accept it on the committee, I continue to listen to how this is in violation of the legislation and so on, so please, please, I really ask someone to tell me, in violation of what legislation is the proposal for two to sit at the table and agree. Let me tell you, in violation of which legislation this is. This is only in disharmony with the wishes of this National Assembly. Okay. I can't do more than what I did. Those of you who aren't up for it, you're just gonna show that you're not up for it, and you don't give a shit. But then don't talk about how we're going to give people money back, how people want this money back, and it's the same way that they get it back, but when it comes to that, you kind of sweat. And if Mr President Miro Cerar has a day after the Justice Committee, time to sit with the Slovenian Philosopher's Conference, he can probably take five minutes for another meeting and at least try. No, no, no. But you say you can't, they're against. Of course they're against it, because who's going to say, "Yes, it is, take it." But probably the government has some argument more than I have myself or more than we have Members, and at least it can try. But you say no. No, we didn't even have to try. Yeah, the fact is, these are the publicly published data I've been showing. One more time. EUR 500 million from Zvon One, T-2, Zvon Two. Approximately EUR 500 million- And indeed, colleague Breznik, T-2 is not doing very well, but above the water, so it is not in bankruptcy, but you probably know that T-2 is far from the Church today and that this owner received it in the hands of the cleansed because the taxpayers have cleansed him of church sins. That's a fact. And that's exactly what I'm talking about. And if we don't make the appearance of the three greatest sinners, then everyone else says, "Well, we're saved, and we'll never be able to respond in compensation. Never. We suggest that for ten percent of the value of the bank hole made by the church companies, you can turn it any way you want, but they are independent legal persons, they are, but the owner is one and the same. And if the owners aren't responsible, let me know why you're so disdainful of Igor Bavčar? He was also the owner of Istrabenz, and he is drawn every day. I wonder what the attitude would be if someone suggested that Mr. Bavčar be compensated, which I am sure will sue the country for the longevity of the proceedings in the courts, or would you say no at that time? Let's let the state pay for everything. That's what you're saying today. We're going in line with this decision. We start with the biggest, I'll sign that we'll continue with everyone else. But let's start somewhere. Let's start somewhere. And once again, far from being an attack on the Roman Catholic Church, even less on the believers. Believe me, believe me, what's been going on in church companies is getting on with a lot of people's nerves and they don't think it's right for them to be doing this kind of machination. But like I said, if you don't want to understand the point of this conclusion, you don't want to understand. Alone and, of course, in the alliance, we could only do what we did. They suggested that the National Assembly would appeal to the Government to place this issue on the agenda at one of the upcoming meetings with the Slovenian Philosopher's Conference. And of course they have the right and, as it seems today, they will certainly say no arrogantly. I have to say something else, the answer from the Government to this letter, of course, I have not received at all, because 60 million is such an insignificant thing that the Government obviously does not deal with it. I received an answer from Nadskofija Ljubljana, where they were also very thickly folded. Lying. Actually, I'm gonna say, whoever wrote this was lying, Mr. Zore, because I don't think he was preparing himself, but he signed under a fat lie. That's how much the government, when I ran it alone, brought the forests back to the archdiocese. We probably know how the proceedings are going, and no government is returning. One decision was taken by my government regarding the specific procedures related to denationalisation, and this was a small matter, a small thing in Bohinj, where we concluded a settlement with the church, and you would not believe that in that case the Church had cancelled a fraction of the compensation. Tell me, why can't you tell me about other cases? If it can be there, it can probably be in other cases. The settlement was concluded only for one reason and only for one reason, because the people in the company have lost their wages and the church is simply no matter for people who lose their salaries, the government and my government. And if it were given in one case, colleagues and colleagues, it is said that compensation is not so impossible to discuss them, it would also be possible in these cases. 60 million is not enough money. Once again, we could use it for regular full reconciliation of pensions, for full regression payments to pensioners, for higher child allowances, for scholarships, we could collect, you can also agree with the RCC what they want to do with this, but people, not an institution, what they want people out of 60 million to get. He's not happy on the RCC side, said his colleague, but I have a feeling that he's not particularly happy on the government side, because if he were, the government would at least try, try. Our decision is only going this way, because it's going to answer no. But if there's no initiative, then there's no need for an answer. If one gentleman, I don't even know if the official representative of the Slovenian Bulgarian Conference comes to the committee and even protests that we are talking about this, I don't know if it's a relationship or if I don't know if he can just say that it's unacceptable on behalf of a legal person. We could talk a lot about this right now. In particular, I would like to point out once again that it is true, indeed, but honestly, it is not an attack on an institution. No, no, no. But I find it hard to listen and watch when a session does not pass in this National Assembly to avoid talking about those who have dug a bank hole being held accountable for it. Today, when you have a proposal on the table, you will, of course, close your eyes and vote against this proposal, and it is far from getting the full compensation settled. 500 million euros is huge, but really huge, I said it before. And the fact is, colleagues and colleagues, we can be sad, we may not like it, but the fact is that the Roman Catholic Church as the owner of companies is responsible, but now you can hide behind five legal persons and three legal persons, however you want. The second fact is that the bank hole is by no means the owners are the only ones to blame. Absolutely not, even bankers. Absolutely. But it's not one and not the other. If we can step together, even if we need to amend the legislation, we can change it. And step on the fingers of those, including the owners, because after all, Bell One and Bell Two could still exist today if the owner provided the necessary capital, but it did not. And you know why he's not here? Here, however, the Slovenian Conference of Bishops once again lied and deceived with data; it did not guarantee it because the debts of three church companies, Zvon One, Zvon Two and the Economy of Growth, were particularly known by those Stajers, amounting to a billion and a half euros. A billion and a half. But the Lord comes to the National Assembly, a representative of the Slovenian Bishop's Conference, and says dead coldly that the Slovenian banks are guilty that these two companies went bankrupt. There were three times as many debts as there were assets. Three times as many. A billion and a half. Do you have any idea what that is? Three church companies. And you say the Church has nothing to do with it because it's a single legal person and the owner should just do what he wants. And these sins have been paid by all taxpayers. And if we want people to get that money back, what I hear a lot in the National Assembly, then today this decision can be the first step towards this. We don't know if he'll be successful, but at least we'll try.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u85	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor to prepare himself for the mag. Bojana Muršič and Dr Jasna Murgel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u86	Thanks again for saying that. Of course, even a nice greeting to all present! Let me begin by saying that, for me, colleague Alenka's claim that a possible proposal is a recommendation is acceptable. In any case, you can recommend that someone sit together and talk. What will be the results of this conversation or conversation, however, depends on both sides, in this case on the Roman Catholic Church and the State of the Republic of Slovenia. The signatories sent this proposal to the National Assembly for discussion, and they did so legitimately. We have also dealt with this issue on the committee responsible for this area. I must say that there have been some very strange debates in this debate, there have been some very strange reasons, but listen, Members, Members of Parliament, we can talk about everything as we want. All of this was also encouraged by the finding of the Radiotelevision of Slovenia that the Roman Catholic Church is actually suing the Republic of Slovenia for these damages. Colleague Alenka called on the Roman Catholic Church to voluntarily waive these damages and lawsuits, and of course she also mentioned this bank hole, which is said to have made a bank hole, which was probably talked about a few million times, and we are talking about a hole, then we are filling it with taxpayer money, and we are also contributing something, and some significant results from our speech are not happening. Here and there, someone shows up who answers and perhaps also closes the heating bench in Slovenian homes, which is called home-made. On this proposal, the Ljubljana archbishop, the Metropolitan Stanislav Zore, also responded. How did he react, we all know that, and I would not particularly like to talk about it, for I would not want to misinterpret what he said. The Director of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests confirmed to us that the Roman Catholic Church has several lawsuits against the State and that, at the first instance, the court decided and said that compensation should be paid for the first action and that the Ljubljana archdiocese must be paid EUR 11.1 million in damages with interest. That's not all. In view of the fact that the Roman Catholic Church has in some way found that a five-year limitation period is running out, it has also begun to file a series of complaints about the inability to actually use denationalisation assets. At this point, I am asked what is the reason why these applications have not been made within the time limit or what are the reasons for the delay. Where are these reasons they're on? I wonder if maybe the Roman Catholic Church didn't want to run the process in that way, because it was possible that it would pay off at the end of the shacks. In all five claims for compensation, the country should pay EUR 30 million, together we have already found that this is €60 million. So far, the Church has already received EUR 2.3 million in compensation, and about half a million are still open or would call me from the Styrian end in the luft. In Hungary, for example, the ceiling was 30 million. Then it is not proportional to what the eastern neighbors have. In one magazine, I read an article in which the author mentions a private letter from the historian Bož Grafenauer, who sent it to the archbishop of the day, now, of course, to the late Mr Aloyzi Šuštar. It relates to the property of Bohinian forests, 160 square kilometres of large area. In such a case, I really wonder whether the Roman Catholic Church would really not make the right gestures to withdraw from the lawsuits and claims to the State. In the final phase, the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia has experienced exceptional positive discrimination over the past 25 years, and I also call on it to drop the charges and claim compensation. Individuals today wonder whether Slovenia today could limit compensation for the inability to use denationalisation assets due to a higher interest. Most of them, if not all of them, we know this wouldn't be possible. Retroactively interfere with certain laws and then implementation is not possible. This too is probably clear to all of us in some way. Finally, I come to the conclusion that only the Roman Catholic Church can voluntarily drop the lawsuits or request them. And I would once again call on the Roman Catholic Church to fully try to do this. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u87	I give the word "magic." Bojani Muršič, prepare Dr. Jasna Murgel and Mr. Janko Weber. Here you go, Mrs. Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have heard a great deal about this denationalisation, and I must first welcome the proposal by the proposer to adopt recommendations on the payment of the Roman Catholic Church's compensation, but the heart of the problem goes on to look for a substantial further back, at the time of the adoption of this law. And let me take a look at these years ago when this marriage was passed. The denationalisation of enterprises, land and forests, housing and business premises was one of the central issues on which our Group of Members, at that time the United List of Social Democrats, used all possible legal means, with the special commitment of Mr Potræ, to avoid the adoption of this socially harmful denationalisation law. Unfortunately, we have not been successful, but the consequences are visible today. The RCC expects the country to recover approximately €60 million from the amount of compensation and interest. Once again, the intention of the proposer is absolutely good, although the law applies, retroactivity, as my colleague has already said before me, is not, but the discussion is certainly in place, for the Roman Catholic Church to sit down with representatives of the government to find a common solution, because 60 million euros, I think it is not small and I believe that this money could be spent on other essential things, both for pensions, children, older people and the situation would be completely different in the country. I therefore believe that it is so important that we stress that the law adopted was a political project that has and has had many negative legal, economic and political consequences, which will also cause many conflicts in the critical historical conditions of self-reliance. The procedures for the adoption of law and efforts, as I have already mentioned, are well described by Mr Miran Potrč in his book Memorial. Although we did not completely oppose denationalisation or the content of the law at the time, some experts specifically stressed that I would like to summarize the words of Dr. Alexander Bajt, a professor who warned that returning in nature would result in new injustices, since many times the debt of the encumbered property will also be repaid, regrettably, without the obligation to repay the debts. However, all those who had claims on these companies or banks will not receive their claims back. The denationalisation has deepened social disparities, but it has not rectified the injustices, but only one thousand beneficiaries have received a tenth of the projected assets for return. The main beneficiary is the Roman Catholic Church. With all the above, I would like to point out that, at that time, the United List of Social Democrats, now the Social Democrats did not object to denationalisation in its entirety and in general, because certain injustices committed by the revolutionary act of taking property had to be corrected. Following this, I would also like to say that we have proposed that denationalisation should be carried out in a smaller or narrow framework. However, if you allow me to summarise just a few of the frameworks which are also recorded in this book by Mr. Potrč: that property is returned in nature only when it does not cause new injustices to those who own or own this property; that the rights which, in relation to the property in question, have to be taken into account as a property right of administration, housing rights, rental rights and other entitlements are acquired by the current beneficiaries on this property, namely by legal legal business and, as a rule, by way of payment; that the return of property should be primarily economic function; that the property of the enterprises is returned, as a rule, by establishing ownership and liability for future management, not ownership and property; that the forests are generally not returned to public ownership; that the church is in principle returned to the property that is necessary for carrying out religious activities, and certainly not to the land and forests which it has acquired as a monk. And if there was then obedience and a law was passed in a milder form, I think that today's problems would not be so great, the compensation to taxpayers would not be, and I believe that we too would live much better. It is also true that denationalisation procedures last – 25 years. This is certainly not good, and I hope that these procedures will be completed. However, it should be pointed out that all those who have caused a bank hole, which we have already talked about quite a bit today, must bear responsibility. This is what the electorate and the electorate require of us. But either and when this responsibility will be proven, or we will have to see it in a very short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u89	Dr. Jasna Murgel has the word. Get Mr. Janko Weber and Mr. Miha Kordish ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Like most of my coalition colleagues, I am also in favour of telling them that, although they are beneficiaries of compensation under the Denationalisation Act, especially church entities, because they are generally referred to as the Roman Catholic Church, but in fact they are archdiocese, different entities that I now do not even know the names to repeat, but not in general the Roman Catholic Church, and then there is a feeling that this is all directed at the church as an institution and so on, I will not even mention. I would also very much like to see these entities give up this compensation. As we have learned from the Committee on Justice, when we have discussed this, this word of compensation, mentioned in the Law on Denationalisation, is not the right term, but let us leave. In order to waive this application, which they have to the State or to the Fund for Agricultural Lands. I must say that I also note that on the Committee on Justice, the representative of the Roman Catholic Church has not replied at all, he has not replied at all, he has not sneered that he might try to respond, but that there might be some will, at least in some context, to be willing to talk about the waiver of requests made by these churches, in pronunciations, by entities. Yeah, I'd be happy to give up those millions, too. O, what we found quickly would be found beneficiaries – children, pensioners, because you all listed them here. But somehow he doesn't like to see you. What is the purpose of the proposal on the table? The proposal is intended to create an impression, as if something on the basis of this proposal can be done now, to change something in this area so that people can be made easier. Now, something else is going to happen, something else is going to happen, so now somehow, I'm cariculating, this church somehow took away, or these entities, something that's not yet going on, or it hasn't tried to do. Even if this proposal were accepted, this would not be the case, since, for the first time, it is proposed that the Government invite these entities to waive their claims. I have already said on the Committee on Justice, in cases where the State's Attorney's Office is representing the State, the State's Attorney's Office is obliged by law to do everything possible to ensure that the settlement takes place, that is to say, the cancellation of claims. And that's what the U.S. Attorney's Office did. They said the same thing. In certain cases, however, the Government cannot do so at all because it is a Fund of Agricultural Lands, which is not under the Government. So, the public office. The State Attorney's Office has said that it is an attempt and must try to settle itself; the settlement may also include the cancellation of claims; it is not a problem; it is accepted only if it is not the will on the other hand or it is not somehow realistic to conclude that it is, it is determined in each individual procedure, then it is not possible to achieve the cancellation of applications. The Fund for Agricultural Lands does not fall under the State's Attorney's Office in order to be represented by the State's Attorney's Office. Therefore, with the proposal we have, we simply cannot achieve anything enough. I'm telling you, we'd all want what hasn't been tried before. Everyone would like the Church or these entities to give up these damages, but simply the National Assembly is not the one to achieve this. Even the government can call, it's already done through the entities I mentioned. And on the move are these church entities, the archdiocese, the one and the other, who are in these procedures because these 60 million are in play. Now I don't know why the proposer mentioned something about her trying to do something when she was Prime Minister. [[…]] But I could have done something on my own to deal with this issue definitively. I don't remember anything being done. You know what, where this is even possible, I said, the government has done what it should have done within the limits of those powers and within the framework of the other authorities they represent, or the law already obliges it to do. Even if the National Assembly invites her to do so now, I am sorry that it gives the citizens the impression that something can be done about it now. This is now the EPP to encourage people to think, and now this will be something. It's simple, I don't know how to say it, maybe I want to get the citizens a little bit on the hook too, to think that this is something that is now going to change significantly with such a proposal that nothing can change. As far as the Denationalisation Act itself is concerned, why procedures take so long. Have you read it? Have you looked at it, what's the denationalization law? He was adopted here in the National Assembly. I mean, it's written down, what can I say, catastrophic. Procedures also lasted so long because of the text of the law itself. Yes, because there are other reasons, but there is a hurry, a law such as the law has been passed, and then the authorities that have to enforce it have had major difficulties in enforcing this law. There was no case law in this area, of course, unless we had denationalisation before. And it's been a long time since there was a case law and I don't know what, even administrative procedures were going on. When something so new, revolutionary new takes place, of course, then the procedures last a long time, and there is a whole bunch of professional questions that we have here, forgive us, or have no idea. We simply could not support this proposal, because we cannot solve these things by swinging our hand. We're proposing something that someone's agreed to achieve, which they're still trying to achieve. We're not gonna do anything about it. This agreement is already being sought, not on the move of the Government, but on the move of these entities, who could give up compensation. Neither the government nor the National Assembly are on the move, they are. If they give up, it's their business, they can, but they don't owe it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u91	Ms Alenka Bratušek, representative of the proposer, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Give me, colleague, please tell me with what, when, how much government is trying to get the Roman Catholic Church to cancel the damages. Specifically. When was the suggestion, when was the meeting, what was the answer? Nothing, because of course there was no proposal. Yeah, I'll tell you what my government has done in the area of denationalization. We have provided additional staff, we have provided additional money that procedures can run faster than this government, which I do not think has done anything. The SMC doesn't even care enough to press the SMC button and get the government to try to find an agreement. If this is an empty hope for people, if 60 million for SMC is an empty hope, I don't know. I know what difficult decisions we had to make in 2013 to make so that the country is now where it has to be, and so that it is now significantly easier to run the government than it was in 2013. And I don't know why it's so hard for the government to give the task to try. We can't get anything back. [[…]] All of us have now come to realize that it would seem that we are all for doing this. But no, because the government won't because the government can't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's a fact. And I will give another example, which I had previously forgotten, related again, of course, to the Archbishop of Maribor, the Roman Catholic Church and Maribor. Not long ago, we were able to read that the Fund of Agricultural Lands had bought, bought a forest, given some more than €5 million for the forest. And you won't believe it! This forest was owned by the Republic of Slovenia a long time ago, in the process of denationalisation, the Church received it back and received compensation from the country and now we had to pay EUR 5 million again for the same forest. Yeah, is that normal? Is that normal? If the marriage is bad, you can suggest changes. If the law is too small, you can propose improvements. All too many times, all too many times from this side we get the feeling, and we'd do anything, but nothing can happen. And you're a government party, the biggest government party, the most responsible party in this country to make a difference. So not just to tell people in person what needs to be done, what you should do, but do. Do it. Today, you have a proposal to entrust the Government with trying to save taxpayers 60 million euros. And you say, because, you know, I would, you know, only a poor government wouldn't be able to do that. Yeah, let's give it a try, maybe it'll be easy. Why is it misleading people? What you're saying is misleading people. Let's let the government commit itself to trying to sit together, Mr Cerar so obviously likes to sit down with the Slovenian Philosopher's Conference and there will be this topic on the table. He'll just get an answer no, come to the National Assembly to say, no, they're not ready to give up, but at least the paper we'll have, not just empty words and empty promises. So, too bad, too bad, if it's true, as I'm listening here on this side, so willing to ask them, the Roman Catholic Church, we appeal to them to make it worth their while, why those parties in the process that the only one can do, we don't commit to it. And Mrs Murgel, by the way, also public institutions are part of the country over which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has the mandate of public institutions, including the Agricultural Land Fund under the Ministry of Agriculture. Yeah, those are the facts. And you can't just wave at a certain thing in this room. Everything that belongs to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but can also be owed by the Government if it owns. There's only one problem with this whole thing. Now we want to make this trouble an impossibility. That's not true. The decision can be taken, the government can be indebted, and the government can then try. I know it's not 100%, I know the possibility of success is very small, but at least let's try, but not wave your hand to say, not anything, because nothing is possible, because everything is unrelated. 60 million is a long way from being disconnected.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u93	Dr. Jasna Murgel's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I don't know why you didn't get the government, because you were the Prime Minister. And second of all, I didn't say nothing could be done, and I said that the government is already doing this through the U.S. Attorney's Office, already trying to settle it. I didn't say you couldn't and you didn't try anything. They're legally bound to do this. Now, of course, concrete procedures must not be known to me as a Member, nor will I go to analyse them specifically. But that's what the State's Attorney's Office is supposed to do, and that's what it does. They also said themselves at the meeting of the Justice Committee. However, the agricultural land fund does not represent the State's defence. That's all I wanted to say. So that's what we're doing and now we're tying the government to something that's already going on. One that can be negotiated is the State Attorney's Office in these specific procedures, and this is it. I'm not manipulating anything, and I'm not deceiving anything, but I'm telling you what the State's Attorney's Office is legally obligated to do, and that's what they're doing. That's what they told you. And there's no other reason to say anything else here. And I said that the one who can agree to the settlement, at the withdrawal of the claim on anything in the proceedings, is the Church and we've asked her to do it here now. But it makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u95	Representative of the proposer, Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I don't think you or anyone else would have dropped the crown from their heads if we commit the government once again to calling the Roman Catholic Church to this. Okay, you disagree with that, okay, you're gonna show that today by pressing the button. Just don't then talk about how, yes, we should, and by the way, this isn't the first time at SMC, and then the decision is completely different. And this proposal is intended exclusively for this purpose. Only to the subject. It is only that two parties who can, and once again, who obviously sit together more than once, this is Mr Cerar and the Slovenian Conference, sitting at the same table, putting this question on the table and seeing if there is a solution. That's all we're suggesting. And I'm asking you once again to think about it and support it. Not with words, but with the push of a button.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u97	Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor. Mr. Ivan Škodnik and Jan Škoberne are behind you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone! With regard to the recommendation to be accepted by the National Assembly and, somehow, recommended to the Government to try to repay all claims made by the Roman Catholic Church to the Republic of Slovenia, it also takes into account the damage caused by the contribution to the bank hole at Zvonov, of course, is only one part of this mutual relationship, if we can say so, between the Roman Catholic Church and the Republic of Slovenia. However, in this part, I would like to point out the following fact that, of course, Slovenia's decision to return in nature was an extremely courageous decision, and the Supreme Court has also contributed to this by its decision that compensation should also be paid to beneficiaries in view of the inability to use land or facilities. And these damages are extremely high due to extremely high late interest rates. And this is one of those problems, or the answer to this question that I think we should be looking for, whether it makes sense to insist on such high late interest rates, of course, late interest applies to everyone, not only to the Roman Catholic Church, but also to other beneficiaries. If justified, these amounts are extremely high. Today we know that we are facing a negative interest rate, in fact. So we often get into a situation where the beneficiaries are actually interested in not solving the case in time, so there are a lot of complaints, because this is the best money you can spend right now, I can say, on the ground. And this is one of the problems that could be solved at least by the law and the change in interest rates for late interest. This would reduce these obligations from one point to another. Of course, that's not the point. I think it would be somehow more operational, as the proposaler also presented in his paper, if we listened to this also in a different way, namely, the Roman Catholic Church has been demanding an additional EUR 60 million over the last period due to the inability to use land. Of course, that's the money we're going to give out of the budget. I think the Roman Catholic Church has already declared itself not to give up. However, it would not be possible to look poorly at the amounts that we are earmarking to the Roman Catholic Church from the budget and to see whether all these amounts should be kept at the same level as they were before, given that the Church will receive a very large amount of resources that it can survive with itself. If I rely only on the data that has been published online and the source of this data is then the Commission's Anti-Corruption Supervisor, when we look at all the amounts that, say, are received by individual institutions, by the bishops, by even the monasteries, by the parishes, from this source, from which it is evident that the Slovenian State makes more than a million euros a month of tax money to the church. A million euros a month. Here it is likely that the mechanism where it could be discussed whether it is reasonable to continue to maintain such high amounts to finance activities, an institution that is in fact separate from the Constitution, is not committed to a large extent under the Vatican Agreement, that all these obligations are actually met in this way. And it would probably be true to take a look at this amount, a million euros a month. It would probably be very quick to see whether this is shrinking in the event of all these claims being paid and, of course, the budget can be balanced. So there's a few options. However, it is likely that the greatest possibility in this area, if we want to establish a relationship with Zvon One, Zvon Two and the bad claims that have arisen, because, also from all these explanations that we have received, is a different legal entity, of course, there is also very little legal possibility that there will be an agreement, which, as I have said, the RCC has also said that it is not ready to conclude an agreement. The solution is in these two cases, to reduce interest rates on late interest rates and, of course, also to seek a reduction in funding of EUR 1 million per month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u99	Mr Ivan Škodnik has the floor to prepare Mr Jan Škoberne and Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! Hello also colleague Alenka Bratušek as a proponent! I must say that this topic is not grateful, nor is it my area, but it has given me no peace to not sign up for the debate. That's because he's been on the wallpaper for a long time, and he's been dragging around for a long time. For starters, I could have refreshed the situation in the last two months when the Group of Non-Aligned Members on 4 October 2016 proposed to the National Assembly a Recommendation concerning the payment of the Roman Catholic Church's compensation, on what we have actually been considering for quite some time today. Later, the same parliamentary group proposed an amendment to the 1st paragraph of the proposal for a recommendation on 4 January: »The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, with legal persons of the Roman Catholic Church, this is the Ljubljana Metropolitans, Nadskofia Ljubljana, Škofija Koper, Škofija Novo mesto, Maribor Metropolitans, Nadskofio Maribor, Škofija Celje, Škofija Murska Sobota and other legal entities of both metropolises reach an agreement on the withdrawal of these from the claim for compensation for the impossibility of the use of denationalisation properties, as well as a derogation from the requirement for payment of monetary compensation for damage caused by the violation of the rights to trial without undue delay. Now I'm going to read the government's opinion, because there was a speech here today that the government would do nothing. “In the case of the Roman Catholic Church and its legal persons and companies owned by it, it is a matter of entirely independent legal entities having the same rights and obligations in legal traffic as other legal entities, and therefore it is not possible to require a different treatment than for other legal entities. Nor is this possible for claims and obligations of an individual legal entity. All claims made by the Roman Catholic Church, its rights, personal or corporate property against the Republic of Slovenia should therefore be dealt with in accordance with the rules on the basis of which these claims were made and, in each particular case, under the applicable rules, the possibility of reducing the State's obligation must be sought.” The President of the Government, Dr Miro Cerar, also gave you an oral answer to the question you had on 14 November. I think he also somehow described in it the things the government deals with, so it doesn't go so fast overnight. I'd like to stop at the property. When we talk about ownership, then things go a little differently. One is state property, we behave differently than if it's some personal matter. Each one of you has certainly met and dealt with these in his life, at which point he actually gave everything from now on to get to that and to protect his property to the place. I had these things, too, and that's why I look at these things a little differently. But anyway, these things have to be solved by a professional, and I think they save these things. I also took a little look at the old records back there, maybe to Frank Joseph. Interesting things have happened, transmissions. There's been a lot of talk today about looting. I don't think that's the right expression to just transfer ownership from one to the other. At times, something was also sold, and things might not have been done properly, and then they turned around again. So about these things, some things couldn't be solved, so they stayed. It should be noted, however, that over 99.5% have been resolved, I think even less than 0.5% of things have been resolved. We can't be making such a circus out of nothing to be saved here right now. Of course, certain things can be solved. I agree, however, that sometimes it would be good to sit down at the common table and sort of a simple solution. I think that the initiative can be on one side or the other, you don't have to wait for each other. So things are still possible here. Of course, the legal case is like this again, at times we say: Every lawyer speaks differently about how we will save this country. And for a long time, I realized that lawyers don't differ much in their statements, just in detail sometimes. But it is true that certain details sometimes point out that a certain matter has been brought to a close. Of course, I think of these things as well as of the Group of Members, but we think a little differently. This proposal for a recommendation cannot be legally complied with. Also, the fact that companies owned by the Roman Catholic Church contributed to the bank hole was actually independent economic operators. This is where I would stop at the parish of Maribor, which at the time wanted to go into entrepreneurship. They wanted to make two out of one euro. That is what has been said many times. Unfortunately, it failed, as did some other companies. Of course, these matters, which were regulated by the law, have been caused by economic damage related to their operation, mainly due to the insufficient care and care of state banks in approving credits. So you have to look everywhere for the reasons. For this hole, the bank hole we've been talking about lately, worth five billion, there's actually huge reasons here. I think this thing's gonna work out someday. Probably not as fast as some of us imagine. However, it is right that we Members are here to prevent certain matters from coming to us, as in the past, so as not to exhaust the country, but to sit together and work for the good of the countries of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u101	We have three more panellists to report. Mr. Jan Škoberne has the floor. Get ready, mags. Alenka Bratusek and Mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Scoberne.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In fact, no matter what kind of acrobatics we are carrying out with arguments, we will most likely not reach a point where we would find that the recommendation is, in itself, feasible or that the Government considers the recommendation, as such, to be in line with the legal order. But if we don't just think for a moment about formal logic and think about the fundamental message that the proposer would like to make with this recommendation, and this is that we have to be responsible, solidarity in Slovenia and that, here and there, all the key institutions of this country should step out of their selfishness and take a step towards the community. And when I thought about how to consolidate this message, perhaps the Roman Catholic Church, which was intended for it, would understand it better, in fact, came to a text where Pope Francis explained why he had chosen that name. Allow me to read that I will not say anything wrong, that everyone will understand, if not me or Alice's purpose, or perhaps the gesture that Pope Francis made with his name, and the direction that he showed to his Church and perhaps to the Slovenian bishops. Allow me, President, to read what is not my custom: “The Holy Father then explained why he chose the name Francisek. During the election, his friend Cardinal Claudio Hummes sat next to him. When the matter became a little dangerous for him, as he put it, he was comforted. But when he had received two thirds of the votes, he hugged him and told him not to forget the poor. This word “poor” was reflected in it during the continuation of the vote. In this regard, he immediately remembered Francis of Asia, remembered the war, and thought that this saint was a man of peace.” Now I quote directly to the Holy Father: “This is how the name Francis of Asia came into my heart, the man of poverty, the man of peace, the man who loves and protects creation. How would you like the Church, which would be poor and for the poor!" Then the pope added a few more jokes in this interview and thanked the press for their good cooperation. The Slovenian Church is far from poor, it can also work for the poor in its work, it undoubtedly performs an extraordinary mission, but the capital behind the Slovenian Church has created a 500-million-dollar hole. This is not a Euro7,000 deposit for a normal share or something more for grandfathers, that is the capital that was created, as colleague Breznik had previously expressed correctly, for thousands of years. And no, he was not slow, and no, he was not gifted; he was adopted according to God's right of the feudal lords, either by Caesar's or by the king's blessing. It was taken from people who lived off this land from these forests. And this part should not be the subject of denationalisation. And this part of the Church could be used to pay for what are three, only three of its largest conglomerates managed to burden Slovenian citizens and citizens, half a billion, and we are only three. I do believe that the Roman Catholic Church will not listen to my messages and messages from Mrs Alenka Bratušek, but perhaps the Maribor Church will find another archdiocese in Francesca Asia and its pope a miracle which I wished in the opening presentation of the views of the groups of Members, and yet have decided to step away from selfishness, for a step of community and solidarity. There's probably no need to say anything else. Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u103	The final word in this regular part is mag. Dušan Verbich. Here you go, Mr. Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the proponent, Members and Members, if you are still present, a very nice greeting once again! On this point, I must admit that I was also a debater on the home committee, and in one part I will certainly express myself in the same words as I did on the committee itself, but I will start in a slightly different way. More than a person sees such content, the more he concludes in some way that some such proposal makes a recommendation regarding the payment of compensation to the Roman Catholic Church on the basis of the longevity of denationalisation procedures and other claims, some act, some of the activities of representatives of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, who have already basically estimated that they were aware that such a proposal, if I say from a legal point of view, does not drink water, and this is only a politically desirable activity that is then in the media and is literally addressed, let's say to this, to political thinkers or potential voters, regardless of when the elections are. For even in these debates, which are, I think it is inappropriate that we now speak in denationalisation in the National Assembly. The fact is that the members of this Parliament must respect the principle of legality. And if a long time ago, 20, 25 years ago, in the National Assembly, it was decided to adopt the Denationalisation Act, then I do not understand why this content is the subject of such a proposal. Why did it come about, why not this land, what it's like to be in control and what it's like? If it is already touching denationalisation, I would expect both by the proposer and perhaps by some discusser, why it is allowed after so many years that the procedures are still not completed. That's a key question for me. As regards denationalisation, it is regrettable that this reality is that several ten procedures are open, clearly understandable, that some weight or complexity of these procedures is, but also to the content itself, and it is unreasonable that even in this case, the judiciary does not respond to this and that the matter should be closed as soon as possible. And here I return to the proposer of this procedure, given that the respected magus. Alenka Bratušek was also president of the executive branch of power a few years ago, and I cannot really believe that now, after so many years of such great fervor, she is turning to the current government with this recommendation. I have a fundamental question: If this is really substantively such a concern, why has it not already been devoted to this procedure, or within the jurisdiction of the executive branch, that has no effect on the court? Nevertheless, we know that certain matters related to certain procedures can then rule with some recommendations and so forth, however, if I look at this recommendation in an analogous manner, then it could be very active. I am aware that the executive branch of power cannot interfere with any proceedings, whether administrative or judicial, but if I come from such a recommendation, then I allow myself to think that she has truly realized that it is possible and I ask why it is not then. It is true that we can immediately talk about the fact that procedures were not completed during the time of its government, and as far as the operations of these companies in Maribor are concerned and so on, but the denationalisation procedures were open and the fact is that, as a person, if I can say so, who was the President of the Government, who was an excellent financial operator of the country, I am sure that he also very well knows the legal part of some of the bonds, in particular as regards credit and credit contracts, and could then from this title, if it is firmly convinced that this can be done, why they were not very active as the government at the time, to move these things. Another matter that I must admit is quite disturbing to me in the debate itself and also in this proposal. Yeah, so much and so much money that's still kind of mediocre or reasonable to get taxpayers. I must admit that I must always respond to such occasions and words, because this MP, as Prime Minister of the Government, has privatised private banks at the time of the Prime Minister. And I will be with only two figures: Factor Bank and Probank; only by recapitalising what the government's decision at the time to maintain, the taxpayers had to invest 450 million in these two banks, not to say the guarantees issued, when the state was also covering a billion and so. You know, and now show some concern, but now I'm going to be this so-called political-like activity – and I'm sure it also realizes itself that in some context this thing is almost impossible if legal entities do not agree. And any political form of influence on this species has virtually no tail and head. And what I was about to say, and now somehow we are not touching at all the really large amounts that have happened to the detriment of the taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia. But unfortunately, it's in our system that politics doesn't match anything. Still, we may be able to wait for this kind of responsibility to begin to be revealed or even answered. In view of the fact that we are again or constantly in the money and also this proposal to take care of taxpayers, I would like to point out another point that, on the part of the proposer, who is so loudly and resolutely advocating that money should be ripped off and returned to taxpayers. I would like to recall then, and in her presentation in the opening part, she said: “Yes, in 2013 we ensured the financial sovereignty of the country.” We can talk in what context, in the final stage, is the financial sovereignty of the state by setting up your own monetary unit, or by taking over the euro monetary unit. From multiple - angle angles, we can touch that. But what bothers me is this constant concern about the money to be returned. I have one key question that has never been addressed in both the National Assembly and the public. When securities were issued at that time in 2013, according to some of the data that was in the public domain, only at the rate of interest in one day the person who was authorised to issue the emission of securities, by sale only in one day, is said to have earned almost EUR 50 million the next day when the case was carried out. And then I'd wonder if it was such a worry, why it wasn't for the taxpayers. So I also understand sighing and all kinds of things, I'm the only one talking about money. And if someone talks very loudly all the time about taking care of taxpayers, then I would expect that in a certain way, even when he is in a position to have priority primarily in the interests of taxpayers. I am aware that immediately a dialogue can be established on the basis of a rise in securities emissions or issuance in a more understandable language; in all such transactions, there are always some intermediaries, however, but it costs. Nothing new. Above all, I stress this because, from a political point of view, it wants to show where the money is for taxpayers, where it should be taken, and in certain areas it does not matter. To conclude with regard to such a proposal for a recommendation, I think that the colleagues in the debate have made it very clear that this proposal is a simple recommendation. Even if I refer to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it does not drink water from a legal point of view. And I conclude with the words of the opinion of the ZPS, which says that simply the executive branch of the Authority cannot propose measures which are not within its competence. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u105	A representative of the proposer shall have the floor, Mrs Mag. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Actually, I'm used to having my colleague mix apples and pears with plums, but I think certain things need to be explained, even though they don't belong to this topic. Yes, Mr Verbic, it has been difficult to repay, much harder than your government. Markets, financial markets were closed to our young Slovenia at the time, and we were glad that we succeeded. And today we are proud that we have succeeded. I know and I hear that many times President Cerar takes this financial recovery on his back, that this government has ensured this, so maybe next time at some coalition summit, tell him if so many things were wrong. As far as Factor Bank and Probank is concerned, please let me know why you put an extra 50 million in these privatized banks. An additional EUR 50 million. I don't have a problem, and I'm always ready to talk about bank rehabilitation. Over and over again. But let's make an argument. Not just the kind of stuff you like to do. There's something else that's very interesting. The legal principle of legality concerns you in this decision. I think that in about half an hour we will be sitting on the Committee on Home Affairs, where I hope that you will be equally concerned about the principle of legality when it comes to defending the Law on Foreigners. The opposition, the violation of human rights, that the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, which you have repeatedly drawn to the plan only when it comes to the opposition, I do not mention at all. She broke your marriage, but you don't mind if we violate the Constitution, human rights, all at once, on the chorus, 15 minutes after the end of this session. So much for principle, Mr. Verbich. So much for principle. I forgot something else. I think you've been the head of the Ljubljana Administrative Unit for quite a number of years. And you've completed the biggest denationalization procedures? And you were a party to the procedure. No, no, no. The largest are also opened in Ljubljana. So much so that you don't have to throw mud all around, first look at yourself. One more time. Again and again, I am ready to talk again about the measures the country has had to take in the rehabilitation of banks due to sinners such as Zvon One, Zvon Two and T-2. The owner of this Slovenian Roman Catholic Church, which you are protecting. You want to admit it or you don't want to admit it. Of course, it is easier to turn the story elsewhere, but the fact is that 500 million Euros of bank holes have just dug these three companies. And just for that reason, the proposal is on the table today. Of course, you will vote the way you want and show these people how you think. We cannot change the past, although today there has been a lot of talk about denationalisation. Why did they make that choice? I don't know. I don't know why they decided that. I got quite a few e-mails saying that the Roman Catholic Church had been returned even more than it could have been returned to her. I don't know if your claims hold you. I don't know. And I don't know why they made that decision 25 years ago. Mr Cerar was closer to Parliament then than I was, perhaps he could explain it. But they did, they did. Things are moving because you haven't been in the hall all the time, but you'll only come in the end to recite what you wrote to yourself, tell you that my government has taken several decisions, provided additional employees, provided additional money for the process of denationalisation to end faster. We did all this. But what's on the table in front of you today has nothing to do with it. It is related to denationalisation procedures, but one thing comes from this material, it is the appeal of the Roman Catholic Church that because of its moral responsibility, which it has in a five billion-dollar hole, it cancels compensation and leaves this money to the people. If that's so hard to understand, I don't know. But I can see that this is obviously very difficult to support. Okay, well, you're gonna show people why you're actually doing it. Our only goal was exactly what I said. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, no attack on the Roman Catholic Church in Slovenia, no attack, even less on the believers, but the appeal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is sitting at the table and trying to agree that the Roman Catholic Church should be cancelled because of the hole it had dug in our banks and had to be covered by all taxpayers. This is simply all that comes from this conclusion. In the end, I ask you once again for your support. No settlement, no illegality, is even less unconstitutional in this recommendation. In accordance with the tasks assigned to the National Assembly, please ask the Government, who is the only one competent to see what can be done in this case. That's all. And once again, I ask you to support my proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u107	We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to the representative of the Government, Ms Tina Brecelj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, and, of course, the representative of the proposed mags. Alenka Bratusek. Madam Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. At the end of the day, on behalf of the Government, let me say what has already been highlighted many times today. As with all claimants, the RCC has always the option to waive its claims. This – and this is what the Government has defined in its opinion – cannot be required on the legal path. The current legal order of such waivers, the application for such waiver, is not admissible, and the Government has explained in its opinion. As regards the possibility of an agreement or discussion on these contents, as explained by Dr. Murgel, state attorneys, as state lawyers, in each particular case, conduct or carry out talks, agreements aimed both at a peaceful settlement of the dispute, settlement and the most favourable for the country, cancellation of the application. All these options are already being implemented through state defenders in individual specific cases. At the end of the day, I'd like to answer some more mags. Alenki Bratušek, on her conclusion or the view that the government's position on the committee was presented differently than what I said here today. I wouldn't agree with that. On the committee, Mr State Secretary felt that the amended proposal of the proposer was technically and taking into account the relationship between the individual branches of the authority of ok, i.e. that it stood. However, neither the Secretary of State nor the Legal and Legislative Service have substantively defined themselves to the proposal or there has been no talk of its substantive feasibility. It also follows from the report of the parent committee that my colleague said that although the recommendation is considered to be well-intentioned, it would be unequally legal to deal with independent legal entities, which we have already discussed a lot today, unacceptable and unacceptable. So there will be no dilemma that the government thinks the same on the board or today. Once again, as it is said – this seems particularly important to me several times – every holder of the application has the opportunity to give it up at any time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u109	Mag. Alenka Bratušek, the conclusion is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I'm going to be brief because I actually realized that my previous word was final. Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for clearly stating that the proposal is a technical proposal, which means it is in conformity with the legislation. I said that at the outset, and we all found that together on the Justice Committee. Yes, the legislative and legal service has not been launched into its own content, which is logical and never goes down in these recommendations. But because I listened to the evidence that everything was contrary to the law earlier than my colleague – I hope he heard that the Secretary of State also said that the proposal was technically okay, which means that it was in accordance with the legislation. Thank you. Finally, once again, where there is a will, there is a way, says the Slovenian proverb, but it is true that this will must be done. And if he holds the information that state attorneys negotiate these damages individually, tell me why it is so difficult at the top, at the level of the Government-Roman Catholic Church to organize a meeting, where we once again appeal to the Roman Catholic Church to cancel these damages. Perhaps a variety of euro could be saved in the work of state defenders if we agreed on this at the summit and on the roof. Today I listened to how the Roman Catholic Church had already said that it would not give up, but she responded only to Ambassador Alenka Bratušek's proposal. The answer may be, if you do so on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, something different. And that is all the proposal that you have before you, the proposal that the Government do everything in its power to make the Roman Catholic Church or its legal person, we have even listed them, to cancel compensations that belong to them under the Denationalisation Act. I think this is no sin, and that the government and the President of the government could make this effort. Therefore, I am sincerely asking once again to support this decision, in this way, to try to save taxpayers 60 million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. The application shall be made. Mr Igor Zorčič has the floor. Each one has five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u112	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Although some of the words in this debate seemed useful to me, they were encouraging in dealing with some of the institutions in this country, but I do note that the debate ultimately led us to put ourselves on this or that side with regard to the protection of our legal order. I think that we have heard completely credible and, I will say, a reasoned explanation by the Secretary of State as to who is negotiating with the church in the various proceedings that take place before the Administrative Court, before the administrative authorities and so on, and that the interference of the Government in these matters does not really make any legal sense. This would even put the entities involved in such procedures, including denationalisation, in a different position. You can imagine that in other denationalisation processes, we also deal with matters in the National Assembly and then appeal to the Government of our own free will, as many votes as are raised to be embossed in some individuals and some do not. I must also draw attention to certain things that have been said. If we read things that have happened in the past, it is one of those things that may have been misrepresented, that the companies mentioned were not all in church ownership, but in majority church ownership, which is of course an important circumstance. Also because I read in one of the media that only the Zvon holding company had 65,000 other shareholders. And if we map the RDC position to these other shareholders, the other 65,000 shareholders who probably lost all their assets they had, then they could also demand that they be denied certain rights in proceedings against the State. I don't think that would be fair. Let's just leave it completely illegal. With regard to what we can expect from someone who owns a share in an economic society, in view of what this person may require in a completely different process, we must pour out pure wine and make it clear that, in fact, from such an address, it cannot be seized for anyone that this debate is a bulging of the moon today, although there are matters in which not only the Church, but also other shareholders who have lost large capital, some church representatives and moral capital, that these are important things that have happened in our past, but we must not mix pears and apples, as has been said, and pour themselves pure wine. So that the denationalisation process and the rights arising from this law are something else, that it is for other participants, that on the one hand we have the Moroccan archdiocese, on the one hand, that we have a number of other shareholders, and that we will not solve it here today. It is also unfair to say to us, I will also tell the Government, those who remind us of these legal aspects, that it marks us with someone who protects the Church and who protects anyone from the story of Bell holding One, Bell holding Two, it has nothing to do with. I think that those who listen to this debate today also speak on the side of the representatives of the RCC to receive the messages of this meeting. Whether they give up their legal claim or not, of course, is their business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u113	Mrs. Iva Dimic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleague Alenka Bratušek, today it has been heard that you are one of the great defenders of Slovenian public finances, Slovenian pensions. I don't know what you've been listing. However, let us give history a spin not long ago, three years ago, in 2014, when under your government, when you were then Prime Minister, a company was selling, including from inherited investments, Helios, for a good 150 million. You were responsible for the transfer of claims to the DUTB for the management of bad claims at what cost. Your then Minister of Method Dragonja promised that this would not happen, not at such a price. But I want to know who earned it here because last year the same company sold for more than 500 million. So you would have covered the deficit made by Bell One, Bell Two or whatever you were talking about today. However, you do not think that you are partly responsible for the way you handled the claims and how poorly you sold our companies at the time, if they now reach such value on the market. I think we are citizens and taxpayers, and we are also entitled to an answer. And you said the government should sit down with the RC. And you were the Prime Minister of the Government. I then asked the Minister, already in May 2013, when the denationalisation procedures would be completed, because we knew that compensation would also come from this title. The Minister has assured that this will happen and that he himself does not like it to be delayed. But you were the Prime Minister of the Government, responsible for handling this. Have you sat down with the RDC and tried to find a common language? I don't know. It seems to me that the easiest thing to do is to feel that there will be elections and then attack everyone who is actually entitled. Why they're justified, I said in my position. People are justified because they could not afford their property that was taken away from them. It was taken away easily for reasons we all know and had no opportunity to manage this property. And I think, if necessary, at this time, you need to pour yourself some clean wine, what was going on with certain companies and what was going to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u115	Mrs. Ludmila Novak has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. I often admit to my colleague Alenka that she is aware of state finances because she has worked in this area for many years, even as Prime Minister of the Government, she has actively led this policy. Of course, on this proposal of hers, my colleague Alenka forgives me, I will repeat something I said on another occasion, on another subject: that this is not a credible good-intention. I think you've discovered some kind of niche. We know that in Slovenia many Slovenians are directed at the church, and now you are using this topic for your political purposes. That's my grade, and that's how many people see this subject. You or you come from Kranj, but we can't say that you're hiding that you're all guilty because some entrepreneur from Kranj made and drilled a hole into Slovenian finances, or Celjani. Also Jan Škoberne from Velenje, to the damage done by TES to help her and let him cover her. Thus we have heard many times today, it is a matter of different legal entities and we cannot just throw the Roman Catholic Church into one basket. The Maribor archdiocese is already paying its debt and very, very much, even as Christians, although I do not belong to this archdiocese, it is difficult for me to do so. I'm sorry this happened. In any case, we are all Christians in some way ashamed and hard to see when the archbishop now has to sit in the rented premises of the archdiocese, and also to the economists of this archdiocese sitting in prison. All the assets had to be sold. Once again, Christians had to pay for a church for which they had already collected money. So we can't say that the Church doesn't pay that the Maribor archdiocese doesn't pay for its debts. But we cannot attribute everything to the entire Catholic Church. I also wonder why the denationalisation procedures are taking so long precisely with regard to the return of property to the Slovenian Church. We are all before the law, we should be equal before the law, and it is not permissible for these proceedings to take so long. Of course, if someone can't use this property, then he's entitled to compensation, everyone, not just the Roman Catholic Church. And I wonder, colleague Alenka, if in other cases you will also require similar procedures to waive the return of property or damages. In all cases, not only in this case, but also another legal entity. Then I'll believe you're well-intentioned. Even when you were Prime Minister of the Government, we patched up a bank hole, but with our money. You've taken these moves, we haven't always voted for it, but with our money. And as Skoberna's colleague spoke, let the Church leave money to the people. We Christians are people, and we are taxpayers too. And when it comes to funding only the primary school curriculum, as decided by the Constitutional Court, this country does not exercise the current authority. And neither is yours. It is good that when we talk about these things, to recognize all the good, positive things that people who work in the church or as priests or in any role, do for people in the field of charitable activities, in the field of education, in education, in education, which is chronically lacking today. We have to admit all of this. And that's why we need the money. That's why I think in most cases money is just not thrown out the window, but it's used for people, for taxpayers, which we are Christians.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u117	The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you very much, once again, for the vice president's word. I must admit that I have to respond in view of the fact that the honourable colleague has stated some things, and you know, these replicas do not go as well as they should. As soon as there was talk about legality, then mixing, now that the meeting of the Home Affairs Committee, the Foreigners Act, has nothing to do with it. You know, when you run out of arguments, then you just start referring to some things. My thinking and discussion, which touches the ZPS directly, is what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has just stated, namely, this service says: “... cannot propose measures which are not within its competence.” I don't see any reason in this, and I don't see any circumstances relating to legality. What I was proud to say, in a certain way, was that I had taken over the public service in the Administrative Unit of Ljubljana, and I can also say with pride that all colleagues and colleagues who worked on the denationalisation requests had completed these procedures prior to my arrival in the framework of the powers of the authorities in the State Composition, in accordance with the ZUP. However, it has always been and always has been that cases were opened, which were then resolved in the Administrative Courts and then even in the judiciary. As a result of this, my debate on a number of issues, I think it is the third time, is also a criticism of the then executive branch of power that it has not intervened more radically in some way, as such matters cannot normally be resolved for 20, 25 years. What I would have pointed out, however, when there were speeches, apples, pears, plums, this collage of fruit, I expected the part in which the comparison is now with this collage. In a figurative sense, nothing was concrete. But I would be specific if the memory didn't deceive me, then the Prime Minister of the Government was also visiting the Pope. And I do have an interesting question. At that time, did the President of the Pope ask him to give up as a denationalising beneficiary of any case? You know, this is what I'm interested in when you're always looking for some things, how do we use this political rhetoric to look for this coalition, or any of us Members here, to show that we're not careful or that we don't want to work in the interests of taxpayers. And to conclude, if the then government, I believe that they were looking for all the options and ways to solve the financial system of the state, but if the then government did not support the Factor Bank and Probank, we would not go into hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money, and even the binding situation is, even now probably not need to add these fresh so much and so many tens of millions. And this is where we move. For this reason, I consider this act to be merely a politically-friendly activity, in this case a parliamentary group, which is intended for a particular group, such as sympathizers or potential voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u119	The word has magic. Alenka Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I'm also interested in where the money ended, unlike Helios. But I hope you know why Helios had to be sold. That's because the bells got him. I'm willing to sign a request to do an audit, and I have no problem. Let us sign a joint request that the National Assembly require a review of the sale of Helios. Had it not been for the Zvon if the parish of Maribor had failed, Helios could still be in Slovenian hands today. That's a fact. And the second fact is, I didn't want to take it personally, and that's how you handled it. From 2004 to 2008, Nova Slovenija was in government. Do you know when the biggest bank sins ever occurred? You know, you know? In 2005, 2006 and 2007. I will not say with the help of New Slovenia, but she was in the government at the time and could act. But my goal today was by no means personal accounting or accounting with the Roman Catholic Church. If it's so hard to understand that I want and give it all, let's start with the biggest ones, Bell One, Vegrad, T-2 and Bell Two, and let's move on with all of them. I'm about to adopt a law that everyone who's guilty of having a bank hole formed if they want compensation from the state, they can't get it. I'm up for this right now. But I started with the biggest. Why is this such a sin? They're the biggest. The greatest sinners are no greater, among the four largest are three church companies. Whether we like it or not. And I have nothing against the church or against the believers. And yes, my dear fellow, you will not believe that I have pointed this out on a visit to the pope. And he couldn't believe anything like that could happen. It is true, however, that we have not yet had concrete numbers on the table in June 2013. In December 2013, we finally found out what the height of the bank hole was. I'm not gonna tell today about it. It's real. It's too small. It's too big. And yes, the next step, perhaps, Mr Verbič, would be right, but let us write in the Vatican Pope to appeal to the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church to cancel this compensation. If our government is unable to do so, then perhaps the pope is also the right address. However, we may gather enough courage to do so in this national assembly. And once again, truly, truly honestly, by no means, I myself have many friends who are faithful or Christian, as the colleague said, and this is not directed against them today. If that money were to come to people, to believers, I'd have half the problems, and unfortunately that's not the case. I mentioned the problem of the forest of the Maribor archdiocese, which all taxpayers had to buy back because of the sins committed by three church companies. It's all a fact. And that's why you have a proposal today. Once again, I ask for support to commit the Government to try to agree that the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church or its legal person will cancel these damages. That's all. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2017-01-24-SDZ7-Redna-26.ana.u121	This concludes the debate on the proposal for a recommendation. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a recommendation is not suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, 25. 1. 2017, in the framework of the votes. Let me remind you that the 50th urgent meeting of the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government will begin 15 minutes after the meeting. I interrupt this agenda item as well as the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you all very much and have a nice day. Goodbye.
